ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11012	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The e-communication law we are proposing today will succeed the current Telecommunications Act, which was adopted three times in 2003, which has over the past four years gained many positive effects on the market for telecommunications in the Republic of Croatia. Based on this law in 2004, the Council of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency, a telecommunications market regulator whose work for the past 4 years, as well as the active application of legal solutions, has led to liberalisation in the area of telecommunications, has seen tangible, easily measurable and explicit effects for citizens, for the economy for all telecommunications network users and services in the Republic of Croatia. So let me just say in a few sentences what effects have been achieved over the past four years. So I'm going to say that in the field of mobile services, the number of users in the past 4 years has no longer doubled from 56% at the end of 2003 to almost 120% at this point. At the same time, we are witnessing a 20% drop in service prices for citizens up to 50% for large customers. In fixed networks of 9 active operators on the market of the Republic of Croatia we have 18% of users, 18% of numbers that are not with the operator who was the dominant operator and was the only one up to a few years ago, also effects in price terms are visible and we record a price reduction of up to 20% to mobile services. In the area of broadband access to the Internet, in the area... We're also recording significant and I'd say jumping progress in a way that we currently have about 440 thousand broadband Internet connections, which represents 10% penetration in... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Which places Croatia among the medium-developed countries on the issue, and even above some of the current full-fledged members of the European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Although the current law, it has also received many positive effects in the area of telecommunications following the development of the area in Europe, following the adoption and entry into force of the so-called "Telecommunication". The new regulatory framework of the European Union had to be approached by a complete, complete change, therefore, of a new law entitled the Law on Electronic Communications, which actually slows down the expression of telecommunications going into less frequent use, and we will become increasingly accustomed to new and... And these are electronic communications. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This law therefore harmonizes us fully with the new regulatory framework of the European Union for the field of electronic communications, consisting of 7 directives, one decision and one regulation, which makes many important changes in the field of electronic communications at its core. What is the significance of these changes? They are primarily evident in further strengthening the independence of the national regulator, which also changes the name, which will be called the Croatian Post and Telecommunications Agency, has been cut short. The new national regulatory body will bring together two divided regulators, i.e. two divided areas of regulation, postal market regulation and telecommunications market regulation so far. The strengthening of independence is reflected in the fact that the new regulator is given jurisdiction and the adoption of sublegislative acts, as well as 18 regulations, by means of this law, the Agency will adopt independently, without the consent of either the minister, or the ministry, which is certainly one of the very tangible arguments in order to strengthen the new regulator's competence and influence. This law is also essential for progress in the area of protection of the rights of users. So far, the Agency has been able to discuss the rights of users of communication services, consumers, their comments at the level of consultation, consultation, discussion with operators, while according to this proposal, the law on regulators will establish an internal administrative unit which will process these requests and which will propose to the regulator, therefore to the Croatian Council of Telecommunications Decisions Agency which it will make and which will have executive power and be binding to those concerned. This law also simplifies entry into activity in such a way that the authorisation system is replaced by a general authorisation system, which means further simplifying the start-up of electronic communications. One newspaper that is being introduced and certainly one of the most important parts of this law is, in my opinion, something more precise and more detailed to explain. It is the concept of the right path that is introduced into Croatian legislation in this law. It is also about the concept of infrastructure operator as a legal or natural person who owns, develops electronic communication infrastructure, and we believe that in this way we have created a good framework for introducing these concepts and defining their respective competences and meanings. If we had achieved a situation in which the further smooth development of the electronic communications network was ensured, the activity of electronic communications without being affected by ownership of the distribution telecommunications sewerage, over the DTK network, which certainly referred to in the public opinion as a question of reluctance. So this law neither wants nor can enter into ownership of the DTK. This law, however, allows smooth development, the use of DTK for all alternative operators in one transparent way. In the manner where the regulator at any time has complete control over the process where it can stop the distribution of space in the DTK if the reasoned complaint is lodged within the specified time limit. This whole complicated round goes for the benefit and for the resolution of this law to cities and municipalities, therefore, the units of local self-government because they will also be allowed to become infrastructure operators on the one hand and, on the other hand, to earn their position that as owners, as holders of real rights on real estate through which DTK creates revenue into their budgets because the infrastructure operator will be obliged to execute, pay compensation to the rightholder and, in most cases, are municipalities and cities in the area where DTK is passing which, for the first time, will be regulated in favour of municipalities and cities. This law also had a respectable way of passing. He's been prepared for 15 months, the start of preparation 15 months ago. He's been through two rounds of public discussion. For the first time, a public debate on guidelines for making this law last year. A second public debate in the final proposal, which took place in March this year, which was first two weeks ago and at the request of the operator, was extended for another week. So it lasted a total of three weeks. In this public debate, a total of 485 observations of 33 legal and natural persons, of whom the legislator of this law has adopted in less or more of 143 observations, have been incorporated into this Final Proposal of the Law. Of course, the law has passed two rounds of consultation and coordination on the Economic and Social Council and therefore allow me to make an assessment that one of the most important, detailed laws in the Republic of Croatia has yet been prepared, at least in my experience. And therefore, very confidently, we can say that he is good, that he solves a very complicated problem in a way that enables all kinds of economic development in the field of electronic communications that enables further protection of the rights of users of services, mobile fixed networks and which certainly represents a new standard that we will try and continue to maintain in the future. For all your questions, of course, we are at our disposal and we expect this debate to confirm what I just said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11013	Thank you. Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications, Mr. Representative Slavko Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11014	Thank you, Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison at the 9th session discussed the Proposal for a Law on Electronic Communications with the final proposal for a law. This proposal for a law was discussed by the Committee in accordance with the provisions of Article 89 as a parent working body. The opening statement gives a representative of the applicant who pointed out that in the process of meeting the conditions for full membership in the European Union and for the purpose of closing negotiations on Chapter 10 of the information, society and media covering the area of electronic communication, the Republic of Croatia has assumed the obligation to fully comply with Croatian legislation with the relevant European Union legislation in the field of electronic communications. He also stressed that the law is fully in line with all the basic EU rules that form the regulatory framework in electronic communications from 2002 and subsequent Directives adopted in 2006. He said that this law does not enter into the resolution of ownership of DTK because it would not be possible or meaningful but that the use and development of DTK was resolved in a quality way in Chapter 4. In particular, he pointed out further institutional strengthening and ensuring independence and action of achieving the regulatory tasks of the national regulator and the regulatory body in electronic communications becoming the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency. And thus bringing together regulatory tasks from the domain of electronic communications and postal services, all modelled by the majority of the members of the European Union. The debate pointed out that operators and units, operators and units of local self-government addressed the Committee with basic problems, which is a matter of purpose, the purpose of the right to use DTK or electronic communications infrastructure. It is also concerned that the proposed solution would undoubtedly lead to a halting of market liberalisation and a new monopoly position on the market, which means that the most creative market for business users would be completely closed to alternative operators. The opinion was also expressed that electronic communication infrastructure, i.e. DTK, should be singled out from the law and may be regulated by a specific law. The debate raises the question whether legal experts have been consulted under the terms of the law in defining the new legal institute of the right to travel, and given the fact that the proposed solution is required by the owner of the property to suffer the right to its real estate. It is also thought that the law should be passed, but that there are elements that are not in line and that it is therefore going to harm small operators and local self-government units. Some members have estimated that this bill should only be discussed in the first reading, and to consider the comments of all interested people while some consider the law to be an improvement in the existing solution, and that it is good to carry out the debate in the law in two readings. The President of the Telecommunications Association believes that Chapters 4, 8 and 15 are very important and that there are certain objections. And the opinion is that Chapter 4 should be excluded from this law and resolved by another law, and that the solutions offered in Chapter 8 will slow down the dynamics of market liberalisation, and unfortunately Chapter 15 has not addressed the question of calendar resolutions of individual market relations. He also stressed that the industry is seeking to establish rules of use over DTK, establishing a legal person, and for the purpose of managing on equal terms. After the debate was held, the committee agreed by a majority of votes of 7 for, 6 against to adopt the proposal by emergency procedure and proposed to the Croatian Parliament that the Law on Electronic Communications be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11015	Thank you. Do the representatives of other working bodies want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Mr. Zivko Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11016	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This Proposal for a Law on Electronic Communications has actually been completed and completed by the Telecommunications Act adopted in 2003 and has already been amended three times. Therefore, the need for a new law has emerged and the proposal for this new law is also a consequence of harmonisation with EU legislation. But like I said, great technological progress, and electronic communications, market liberalisation, an increasing number of operators, and by all means the introduction of order and supervision in that I would say the forest of operators and information. The main role in this belongs to the new independent regulatory agency, the Croatian Postage and Electronic Communications Agency, which brings together two existing regulatory agencies – the Croatian Telecommunications Agency and the Post Office. The proposal for this law paid particular attention to further strengthening independence and building the necessary capacities of the new national regulatory body in the field of electronic communications and postal services. Then protect the rights of end-users of these services, the issue of competition, and the achievement of transparent conditions for access and joint use of the built electronic communications infrastructure and related equipment. The result is and such work is already being done and will be even lower prices and better quality services. In order for all of this to work without delay or delay, and in the unresolved property-legal relations relating to the DTK network, it was necessary to introduce a new legislative and legal concept right of way, which means the right to access, install, use, repair and maintain the communication network and electronic communication infrastructures and related equipment without prejudge of ownership. The issue of ownership will certainly last. It's not possible to wait for it, so it's only then that it enters the world of electronic communications. It would be a crazy communication suicide with inexplicable consequences. In order for all this to work, the main burden will be borne by a new regulatory agency, I said the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency, which unites the current regulatory, independent regulatory agencies for postal and telecommunications services. We need to thank them and we need to thank them for their work so far because they have simultaneously established and regulated the markets. The Croatian Telecommunications Agency had a particularly difficult task. Now they continue to work together, and we must help them and certainly wish them greater happiness and success for the improvement of all of us. If that's not the case, they're the first ones to warn us about it. The proposal for a law gives the agency great authority, but even greater responsibility in society. They need to further develop the market, increase quality, lower service prices, ensure a high level of protection of users of services, protection of personal data and privacy, etc. The agency for its work corresponds to the Croatian Parliament, and its work is public and transparent. The Agency shall be managed by a panel of 7 members appointed by the Croatian Parliament with very high criteria and after a public call and a proposal, members of the Agency, the Board of the Agency, will act professionally as employees of the Agency. It has to be because it's too much work and it's too important. The Council of the Agency shall submit an annual report to the Croatian Parliament and to the Government on the work with clearly defined parameters to be contained in this report. Their work will be able to follow, I would say on a daily basis via their website, and also services both postal and electronic to which we are used every day. Of course, the Agency is obliged to maintain the secrecy of classified data and business secrets in accordance with the legal rules. It's good that the agency is also subject to an annual audit because that dame is turning huge money, I don't know, I think I've heard about 15 billion a year. The decision-making of the council itself guarantees a lower possibility of manipulation because the council makes decisions by majority of the votes of all members, they would say to the qualified majority and, of course, after that there is no appeal, can only go to the administrative court and, according to this proposal, such cases for the court become urgent. The decision-making deadlines were also given to the agency so that it could not delay making decisions and solutions either. On the occasion of the construction of a business and residential building, this is very good, the investor must build cable channel for access electronic communication that will be available to all users with a free choice of operators. In the case of plan-space documentation, electronic communication infrastructures must also be planned, taking into account the protection of health, space protection and environmental protection. Of course, an infrastructure operator is required to pay compensation for the right path through someone's property annually per square metre of used land. And in order not to build each network, the agency encourages the joint use of electronic communications infrastructure and related equipment. Of course it was taken into account in this proposal and the user. The service user may, at any time, terminate a subscription relationship with the operator. Dispute of users and operators also resolves this agency. Any merger or merger of an operator must be notified to the Agency in order to protect the competition. I see that there is also a free call for a single European emergency number 112 and other emergency numbers. And as there are some things in every good, at least some evil, such as electromagnetic radiation, this agency has the task of verifying harmful electromagnetic radiation by human health, of course according to our law. This bill also provides for the prohibition of unauthorised listening, listening, listening, storage and any other form of interception or surveillance of electronic communications and associated traffic data. The operator is also obliged to record and store information about the number from which it may be disturbed. And of course, for the purposes of any criminal proceedings, the agency is obliged, the operator for 12 months, to store all data on electronic communications. Of course, all violations are prescribed and certain penalties are prescribed in this bill of law which I will not and make no sense to quote. And before the end, so as not to have a legal vacuum in the transitional provisions, it is prescribed that so far the members of the Council of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency and the President of the Post Office Council continue to work in the new agency until the new one is established in accordance with this law and with its statute that will then be adopted. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports this proposal for a law on electronic communications, it is very good, it is necessary, it is hasty, and if there are shades that might still be balanced, it is certainly not a reason for another reading, let alone for rejection. So, the sooner this law should be passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11017	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11018	Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. What about the Law on Electronic Communications? The law is passed in order to meet the conditions for full EU membership and to fully comply with Croatian legislation with EU legislation. But the importance of this law was that it had both high-ranking principles and goals. The consolidation and simplification of and the complete legislative framework in the part of telecommunications and radio communications, institutional strengthening and ensuring independence and the functioning of the regulatory tasks of the national regulatory authority, shall ensure the principle of neutrality in market regulation, effective judicial protection and control of decisions of the regulatory authority. In addition, the principle of creating a consumer protection mechanism should ensure quality, transparent and non-discriminatory management of information or electronic communications and related equipment and cable sewerage and, of course, the quality and transparent management of radio frequency spectrum, in the general good and of particular interest. It also included a series of directives of the European Union and this framework, the Access Directive, the Authorisation Directive, the Universal Services Directive, the Directive on competitions in the market for electronic networks and services, and the Directive on the privacy of data, as well as a series of decisions and regulations of the European Union, as well as Parliament and Council. We also estimate that this law has been given a fairly good informal opinion by the European Commission, and since it has been in the adoption procedure for a year, we can say that there has been plenty of time for public debate, that there has been this public debate and that, apart from the contacts between the government representatives and the ministry with the operators, we have had discussions at the GSV sessions. Even if we consider that the aim of the law is to ensure through an effective regulatory framework the further development of the activities of electronic communications networks and services and to integrate them into the European market, but also through the aim of increasing the competitiveness of the Croatian economy and lower prices for the user of services in Croatia. And of course, when the world knows about this law, it would be expected that we have undivided public support and parliamentary representatives. But unfortunately, this time we have to say – but. We estimate that there was no need for understanding and sufficient communication in the process of agreeing and in the process of public debate. When making the final proposal, the promoter no longer communicated enough with operators or with local self-government units. The promoter decided on certain legal solutions he had offered in this bill, which legal solutions cause conflicts I would say with small operators, but also with the largest number of local self-government units. The conflicts that then lead us to a dilemma about what to do in view of the necessity and quality of legal solutions, but unfortunately some areas that are obviously not well solved and which obviously require further arrangements. And that's why it was disappointing for the SDP and it was disappointing that at least during this session we had 20 days to discuss this case twice and this law and to try simply another individual solution from this law to try in public communication with interested and operators and local self-government units might find more consent. We also estimate that it is the agency for telecommunications that has not given financial assessments that are very important in such permissive solutions. Therefore, the agency for, I apologize, that the Telecommunications Agency has not tried to give us an assessment of how this will affect operators, and that individual legal solutions will especially in Chapter IV. have implications for tomorrow, further drop in prices, strengthening competitiveness and, of course, what we are most interested in, benefiting users of services at lower costs. And that is the reason that no matter how high-quality the proposal evaluates this legislative project, no matter how much effort has been made, the SDP cannot support this proposal precisely because of the disputed solutions in point or in Chapter IV. and Chapter VIII. related to Chapter XV. So let me try to explain it on behalf of the SDP. What Chapter IV offers us. The proposed law? I will speak in an unprofessional language under this law because it is very difficult to understand and these are terms that will take a long time for us, and for citizens to get used to it, but perhaps in a simpler dictionary, to us understandably. It is evident that for the legislator the biggest problem was ownership of me would say infrastructure sewerage. That was the problem. The problem is that there are judicial disputes, unclean property, and apparently there are a number of implications for the application of this law. The promoter resorted to one solution, one solution that causes simple resistance, and that solution to try to find the cable owner and assess that all future relationship through this law will be resolved with the cable owner. And then he's trying to say, we didn't get into the problem of the sewer owner. Let's get this settled in court. Let's do it in a different way. And the future infrastructure operator will own the cable. Maybe a good solution. Perhaps, but this solution was meant to be communicated to both local self-government units and operators. He didn't communicate with him, and we have resistance now. Why maybe? Well, because in order for the law to be in place here, we have a new legal institute, the right path. And automatically to the owner of the cable through the institute of the right path we put it in priority over the owner of the sewers and tear down many legal institutes. We're dealing with the past by law. By law and new terms, we solve the relationship between the owner of the property, the owner of the channel, and I'd say the one who's supposed to own the cable. A very risky solution that if taken in conflicted solutions, and our main opponents are the unit of local self-government, will cause a series of problems and it is therefore risky to pass this law quickly, knowing that this is the proposed solution, and not agreeing with the operators or local self-government units. If we go back a little bit in history, then we know our dissatisfaction, because in the former HPT, citizens were giving money to build infrastructure, at least that's what it said to each of us in the contract. So if we have already missed out on the HT privatisation procedures to highlight this participation of citizens, could we now try to correct that injustice with new solutions? Whether or not it has already decided to address this problem in Chapter IV. It may be that the local self-government units are temporary and we want to eliminate them as infrastructure operator, local self-government units. That's one kind of thing I'd say about the ownership of Croatian citizens. And if our units were local self-government and infrastructure operators we would have had the correction of the former I would say the unclean privatisation process, we would have had a better quality solution because the infrastructure operator would be an independent person not from the domain of the activity itself, not from the domain of the activity itself. There would be more independence, and I would say a far bigger and easier job in the efficiency of our national regulator, which would also slowly enable the completion of judicial proceedings related to ownership of channels, over the DTK. So I think that simply the legislator and the different solution to the operator, the infrastructure operator could have found a solution, reconciled the former I would have said the pucks of the past, reconciled the strong competitiveness and uninterrupted objections to protect the HT monopoly, to protect it. Because let's be aware, if we now declare a simple operator in the infrastructure, then small operators are very afraid that it will be a loyal game. They fear whether quality competition will continue to develop. So that's a different solution. As the promoter had the courage to say, the cable owner is an infrastructure operator, as he had the courage to say that his right in channels would achieve the right path and I would have invented that I would have told the legal institute, so he could very easily suggest a neutral operator and that unit of local self-government. By the way, I'd say making things easier for myself, because our future national regulator would have a far easier job. Therefore, we in the SDP believe that we could have discussed these solutions and I am convinced that there would be less conflict. Neither would opposers be units of local self-government, nor would opponents be our operators in electronic communications. And that's why our opinion, that chapter 4 is very risky and that, because of Chapter 4, maybe we should have delayed this accelerated procedure and that we needed more communication with the interested one. We go with risky solutions and we have a good law to assume new conflicts, new dissatisfactions, and what we are interested in and these are assessments of how negative this will affect competitiveness, the further development of the electronic market and, of course, the success of our goal being a lower price. And as time runs out, there's something I have to say about head eight and about that head 15. It is evident that the battle for competition is very important and that this is defined by Chapter 8 and that this specifically defines the markets for broadband access to the Internet, the water market, the retail market, probably tomorrow and the DTK market. But what is concerned by the operator is that we have not defined very clearly calendar deadlines at any time and within which deadlines the Agency will complete the definition of all the conditions for those markets so that the market in electronic communications is free. Therefore, Chapter 15 lacks very clear calendar deadlines and that is something that is our obligation and responsibility to have a loyal match and a quality match among operators. That deficit should be removed and said simply by those deadlines. We at the SDP Club will give an amendment to Article 28 in an effort to change our heads. For Chapter 15 on these deadlines, we're not able to because it's something that the waist has to say, it's something that maybe the current agency itself could have suggested, not that we depend on how the current business is going to happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11019	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11020	Thank you very much, Mr. President, representatives of the government. Here are a few sentences on the proposed law and specifically why I think that, as well as my colleague Linic, as well as the entire SDP club, the law should not have gone into emergency procedure but should have been separated and let him into normal procedure to have an opportunity to conduct a quality debate in the Assembly, and also in public to make as many disagreements as possible smooth, in order to bring as much quality legislation as possible. Which is why this law is important, you don't have to explain too much. It is a law that defines a broad area, an extremely important economic activity. As we heard, there are about 15 billion kunas per year used by all Croatian citizens. Everyone uses the Internet, telephone or any electronic communication so that I believe that this law, which touches almost all Croatian citizens, is important to bring in such a way that it is as high-quality as possible, to encourage market liberalisation and that ultimately we have a guarantee that the service will be quality and cheap. Why do I think the effects of liberalisation matter? As we can see, over the past few years since the Croatian Telecommunications Agency was founded, the fact is that the emergence of new price operators has continuously brought these services down, that quality increases and ultimately that Croatian citizens have greater benefits and greater benefits than lower prices or higher quality of the service itself. When we look at three segments that can be analysed in the very supply of these services, which is offering services in mobile networks, offering services in fixed networks or in data transfer. The fact is that where there was no DTK problem is the biggest step in market liberalisation. In traffic or in the provision of services in mobile networks there are several operators who constantly drive each other to a better service, to a wider service, to a lower price and the market share itself shows that there is the best competition in that part of the market, or Croatian citizens have the best service at the best price. In the case of fixed network services, the market relationship is 86% in favour of one operator, and I therefore estimate that in the last few years, there has been a slight shift in market liberalisation. Which is why it is so, most probably all of us here know the answer and this DTK problem that exists for many years and has been tried to resolve this law, I don't think it's sufficiently well proposed in this law to resolve it. We now have different situations on the ground. There are many lawsuits by individual operators against others who have gone through DTK, through channels, and have not, these lawsuits have not been filed in courts, because the right of ownership has not been resolved, so there is no owner who is registered as one who can manage that space, or allow someone to pass. On the other hand, charge the right way, or the right to go. And that is why we, or not us, have introduced some concepts into this law that define this whole story. One infrastructure operator, as the promoter said, is a natural or legal person who will now have full control of the DTK, means over channels and cables that go through these channels and will be able to charge in some way a service, even if determined by the Croatian Telecommunications Agency, according to some economics criteria to other operators. And we have on the other hand the owners of that country or that space that DTK is going through again, says the law to pay a certain fee per amount of space, or a meter of square that space is used. It is very much like this in the fog, quite defined and it is not clear what prices will be, under which conditions will be determined, i.e. it is only clear that this will be determined by the Croatian Telecommunications Agency. In particular, when we look at the relationship of the local administration and this law, I will give an example from Zagreb, there are approximately 2,000 kilometers of DTK, or electronic sewers through which this whole process works. And if you were to pay the price that local self-government has charged so far, that's about 4.5 kuna per metre. The city of Zagreb had an income of 100 million kunas when all operators would pay it to him. So we now have a situation that the potential income of one hundred million kuna of a local self-government will no longer be paid by local self-government but will be paid to an infrastructure operator. In this case, the one who rules, I'm not going to go into what company it is right now, but in most cases we know which is, which is the master of these channels and the electronic cables that are dragged through it. On the other hand, some compensation will be paid in local self-government determined by... I must point out that even now part of the operator was paying some self-government and something to other operators, but that price was not even, or varied, so local self-government was charging something lower than the operators charged. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What this law defines and I see one shift because the first part of the law has defined that an infrastructure operator can become a legal person who has either a building permit to lay down that infrastructure or use that infrastructure for 20 years, it was the first draft law. And I welcome that it changed to three years ago, because from 20 years ago there was only one company that could use that infrastructure. But I don't understand how we're going to determine now who's going to be the infrastructure operator in those situations when several different cables have been pulled from different companies through those channels. So maybe they've been using the same thing for over three years, that DTK. So now there's going to be a dispute between who's going to be able to charge the fee for these cases. And secondly, I think that such a setting of things will not help further liberalising the market because it will put the advantage of one operator, regardless of how the Croatian Telecommunications Agency will control the whole process, because there are also certain penalties and certain procedures that will... But I think that when one company has control over the whole process, you can imagine how it would be for other operators if they were unfairly disabling the passage, passing through that infrastructure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Finally, I would like to say that I also believe that a much more just solution would be given to the management of a neutral operator, this case to a local self-government or to a company that would be singled out and, like a transmitter and a connection, would offer a data transfer service to all under the same conditions and to all under clear and transparent conditions under which they could pass. And that would ensure that competition is ultimately much fairer. Finally, when we look at these prices and why we say all this, because Croatian citizens are doing a cheaper service, these prices in Croatia fall in about the same proportions as in the European Union countries but are still much more than we are assessing what they should be. Because what if prices are about the same as ours in the European Union and we are paid to 30%, it is clear to all that there are reserves in operatives in this cost of pay to lower prices. So I don't think the law we have here in front of us is going to allow a cheaper service for Croatian citizens. Finally, I believe that this law should be amended if it is possible to correct that part of the regulation of the issue of the right path of the infrastructure operator is determined in a way that would be as fair as possible and would ultimately put all operators in the same position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11021	Thank you. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11022	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I'm actually wondering why or nothing in this House can be the way it should be. We have here a bill of law that puts a lot of work into it, and it shows it. And then we spoil everything by insisting that this complicated law be passed in a single reading. And there are serious, justified reasons to do it in two readings, even at one session. Now this session will last until July 15th, it's almost another month. We have opportunities for two readings of this legal text while respecting the ambition of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to bring this law to the summer break, to bring it to this second quarter. And then a man wonders, so since we already have a chance to do something on the basis of a good legal proposal right, why don't we do it. Says the government's representative, an extensive, long-term public debate has been held in two circles. We appreciate it well and appreciate it. It would be good for such public debates to be in the making of a draft bill in all ministries. I publicly commend that. But you see this was a debate between the government and the operator, but there is no debate between the Parliament as the bodies passed by law and those to which this law will apply both operators and units of local self-government. We actually have to trust the government blindly. It's not our function... The role of the Parliament is not only that, as some irrelevant body, automatically trusts the government and confirms the legal proposals that the government is sending here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If the parliamentary majority is satisfied with such a role, then I must say that it is, that they misread their function here. Among other things, elected representatives of citizens to try not to control the government only in that constitutional sense. It's that they're really trying to make the legal proposals we're adopting here as much as possible. The execution of such an emergency lawmaking practice let me remind you we had already at the last session. Recently, we could not forget that when it was also insisted on this Law on Electronic Trade. The same was P.Z.E. And that was also the reason we brought him into the emergency procedure. That's where I warned in my debate that, the promoter had confused the articles there. He wrote a nebulose, changing items in an article that doesn't exist at all. It has been said that this will be corrected by the Committee on Law and the HDZ by its amendment. The HDZ then gave one amendment and said it was an amendment to the e-mail law. That's not what the law called it. It was called e-commerce, the wrong name of the law. The Legislative Committee has not corrected the important thing and the law has been published in "The People's Newspaper" as completely inconclusive. Nonsense one's been published. Unnecessarily. Unnecessarily. I asked nicely then to give it back. You fix that in two days. Send it to another reading, but don't send things like this. I'm not saying this is the law. Yes, of course. He's made with one acrybic, and you can see that. Not to compare it to that. After all, he left the other ministry. But there are questions about this law, too, because this is a complicated and unusually important matter. There are questions that would be good for further discussion. Why? So let's all be convinced that the legal solutions offered here are good and this law could be voted unanimously. It's an important law. That's not going to be the case, but we'll probably have to be abstentions about this law. Why? Because these objections remain made by counterpart Linic, saying on behalf of the club. First you see in this public debate at the constituency clubs the amendments of one VIP operator came to this legal text. This is a professional matter. They seem totally acceptable at first sight. On the Media Committee we discussed over there, which are colleagues from the government who said they were... The VIPs discussed that they accepted their comments which they thought should be accepted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That these amendments could not, even gave a good, very reasonable explanation why, for example, one of these amendments could not be accepted because it is contained in another law. That he's contentally good, but that's why he shouldn't be accepted. Look. But we are now in a position that I must trust the Government's representative blindly if that were the case. And it would be better, it would be better if all those who are interested and a small operator would be able to, when the law comes to the Assembly, have the opportunity to check these allegations by the Government and stand firm behind this government proposal and vote with full conviction one law that is probably quality and probably in its largest part deserves to be supported. As far as that head of the 4th is concerned, there's now one problem, one square circle, and it doesn't seem like the best way. A new concept of infrastructure operator is being introduced. And then what does article 27 say? Public communications network operators are said to have the rights of infrastructure operator throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia and all units of local self-government and so on. So a public communications service operator has the right to infrastructure... He's becoming an infrastructure operator. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who's the biggest? THT. He will become an infrastructure operator throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia. And by doing that, he controls this entire infrastructure. I'm not sure if I vote for this bill I won't allow THT to dominate other small operators. And that's why I won't vote... Because I don't think this is a good solution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Be careful when we went, we had a similar situation when radio-television was transformed. Who built all those transmitters? Former radio television Zagreb. But then a special company was singled out, and these are transmitters and connections, so it was taken from HRT, given to transmitters and connections, which were then to provide these services to all other operators, of course, with some compensation. Well, we have a similar case here. Who was putting all those cables up? Used to be HPT. Who paid for it? Citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Well, a thousand or two thousand marks cost a phone connection. And that's where it said why it cost? For building infrastructure. And now we could do what counterpart Linic said to correct perhaps one injustice in the privatisation of THT. But we also have an additional problem because it's easy with transmitters and connections. There's a signal going up in the air. And here we still have that tuba, that channel that your cables are placed in. And now the units of local self-government have any more logical solutions than that of local self-government units and not public communications network operators become these infrastructure operators, so that, of course, they are required by this regulatory body and by the rules that these rules are good to do so under the same conditions to all users and large and small. We could clear all this up if most in this House had not unwisely decided that we were not doing this by an emergency procedure and we were to discuss it quickly today, and on Friday we already passed such an important law, and I think that this is the most important, important objection to the process of adopting this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11023	Thank you. Mr. Representative Antun Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11024	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. How important this law is also seen from the fact that its title does not fully correspond to its content since it is called the Electronic Communications Act, and since electronic communications under this law are given to the use of electronic communications networks and/or the provision of electronic communications services. So one aspect in which the form of electronic communication takes place here is considered electronic communication. I understand the way the concepts are elaborated becomes an integral part of the text, and then in a way of discovery, so that's what you can say. But I want to highlight the difference between electronic communications in terms of which this law speaks from the content of electronic communications. This is, therefore, the whole communication process between people today taking place on adequate means in appropriate technologies through appropriate infrastructure, etc. etc. In fact, why am I warning the title which is much, much more complex than the text itself because it even said that we had just heard that there was a large and very strong market here, one big strong economic activity is not exactly true. It is certainly also a major economic activity, as counterpart Maras said. But it's actually the kind of activity that determines the conditions of all other activities. That is, in some ways, the process and way of organising society in modern technological conditions without which it is impossible to imagine overall social activity. This is why this is an extremely complex law, and therefore this law that is now coming and equipped with a whole category of apparatus which I will begin by starting with a representative in this House does not understand until the end, because it is not professionally equipped to require special attention to be brought and to be implemented in a way that we are certain that by entering new relationships, we are actually mastering their sense and their perspective and our interests, our public interests, primarily within it. It has been said on a daily basis, if I am not mistaken, and I know that this has been done, that the Strategy of Electronic Media in the Republic of Croatia will be adopted. It wasn't brought. If it had been passed, I would have been much easier to compare the meaning of ours in some way, and first I would have determined the meaning of our orientation in this area now so to say by the legal procedures that follow the realization of such a strategy. You also belong to those who have a lot of good words to thus say the volume of work that has been done in this law and without regretting being any cheap critic of this law still have to join in some way underlining dilemmas that we are not sure will be solved in view of the lack of time to consider them well and possibly bring about appropriate solutions. It is rightly said that in some ways the owner would if it were the operator actually cables etc. This, communication infrastructures if they were units of local self-government to make it more neutral, but in this way as the owner. But I'm not even interested in this notion of neutrality, because I think this is neutral being neutral here. It's a matter of whether public interest will be realized, and at this point I don't see a stronger representative or someone who in some way creates a basis for the realisation of public interest from local self-government units. So, when it is said with the right that such a potential owner is more neutral than others, neither is it said enough. Because we don't always care about neutrality on the market. We're interested in the public interest on the market. These are categories that are different and therefore he couldn't cover or at least didn't explain these substantial differences between saying market relations, public interest within market relations, Parliament's interest as a political community to trust me to say so to analogue structures that also represent the political community simply people, citizens, etc. etc. We don't have the answers to those questions here. We have, we can assume that some solutions here are good days, but we don't have guarantees for such solutions, and we have thank God and testimony that don't exactly contribute that everything here is solved. I think that fellow Linic was talking about what was missing and what questions were not solved. They are not solved as I recall because no strategy for the development of electronic media has been adopted. The date of switch to digital broadcasting is the basis of every controlled and targeted process in all countries in the process. We don't know anything about that. Carriers change the transitional period and their implications to the public character of the media. It is said that, in fact, this is the Law on Electronic Communication and it is analogous and does not question the Law on Electronic Media. But I can already see that it will be difficult to compare some of the elements of this law to someone there and that we will soon have to find ourselves in a situation to consider what is not well solved. Is it in this law or that electronic media law? There are such elements I can say that I see. I wish it was time to ask for more specific. The costs and financial resources of those who are related to this one transition are also a big question. It's a question of the market, but it's not only a question of the market. The question is therefore also the interest of the state community, i.e. the social community. How much is the public interest protected in the market interest? I don't know. I think there's a lot of questions that maybe there's a solution. Maybe this law is on the trail that these are favourable solutions, but I think the doubts remain quite pronounced. Here, I will mention some places that are kind of confusing or that have reserves also join another and also special, that is, in Article 96 where digital radio and television transmissions are actually determined. There's a formula here in point 4. That doesn't make it completely clear to me what it's all about. The methods and conditions of switching from analogue to digital broadcasting of radio and television programmes and access to positions in multiplex in digital countries, in earth-based digital broadcasting, are closer to the rules adopted by the minister on the proposal of the Agency's council and with the prior opinion of the authority responsible for electronic media. The status of the previous opinion is one questionable category. I remember from the practice of the administration that the previous opinion can actually be adopted and not adopted. I mean, then who's the bearer? What rights, shall I say, has a minister? This doesn't apply to public television, but I think it's funny how it's always avoided on these public televisions, when public television is to be said, which should otherwise be the concept public radio and public television should be held, then it's usually said, those who carry out their activities under special law. I mean, I don't know why an enigmatic tone of law instead of being explicit. And otherwise, the law seems very, very enigmatic in a whole series of things, read as a set of puzzles to make sense. I think you should absolutely say here that this doesn't apply, that this literally doesn't apply, and it should be written down. I don't know if there's any time for any more amendments. That this does not apply to those who carry out their activities in accordance with specific law. However, in the Krish-Krash references to this complex text, whose competence I do not dispute and, however, it is impressive, but which includes, so to speak, the need for preparation, not only of the parliamentary representatives but also of the promoter for relations such as the question of the owner of electronic networks, etc. within the process of globalisation, within market relations in the protection of public interest, etc. There is much that remains open and unfortunately I will have to join also those who will be... refrained from this law, if perhaps the Government itself, or the Proposer, some of what he has heard here in this form does not accept and does not suggest perhaps as one supplement and as his own amendments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11025	Thank you. On behalf of the motionary, Mr. Secretary of State Drazen Breglec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11026	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, after a number of remarks and comments on this law, I felt the need to try to answer some of them even before the debate was concluded. First of all, once again, I would like to resolutely deny that this law is not sufficiently communicated. He is more, not only more than an average lawcommunicated, but most, as far as I remember from all the laws communicated with industry, with the public, with units of local self-government, with natural and legal persons. Therefore, in an indirect manner and with parliamentary representatives who are also natural persons, who can also participate in the public debate, some of whom have shown interest in participating in the public debate. So, through a two-round public debate, through everything that I do not repeat and spend valuable time, I believe that this law is not only appropriate, but also at a record high level, at a positive high level well-communicated and that the willingness to accept even 143 observations of their integration into this law is the best proof that it has been very open to all those remarks that have been constructive, reasoned, which have been sustainable in relation to the common European legislation responsible for electronic communications and which have not been contrary to some other parts of Croatian legislation. There has been repeated remarks on the need for urgent adoption of this law. After 15 months of consent. We believe that urgency is justified for the reason that we are quite safe, not to say 100% sure, there may be some changes in the future, which is normal, but to the most extent certain that this good measure in the reconciliation of natural conflicts that exist in the electronic communications market, which are conflicts in some cases of interest, units of local self-government, operators. In conflict, natural conflict is in some cases the interest of state and operator. In some cases, conflict and interest are natural even for users and operators themselves. These are natural positions where the interests and all participants must be balanced in one appropriate way and a compromise proposal should be adopted and we believe that this law has done so. The biggest and most repeated remark that I have to repeat, although I said in my opening words, is that the units of local self-government were not in position and were not in a position to become an infrastructure operator, that they could not inherit what the citizens of the Republic of Croatia were building, which is allegedly sold in some privatisation. On the contrary, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Just the other way around. This law opens the space for cities and municipalities to become infrastructure operators, to further develop the DTK, to charge from cable owners in that DTK and make revenues to their budgets through the definition of infrastructure operator in Article 2. point 15. Well, there are many mayors sitting here from different political options. Both Mr. Linic and the distinguished Ms. Klaric, including my little one in 2 terms and in the county and mayor I was 2 mandates. There is, therefore, one general awareness in this House that this great resource of the Republic of Croatia, consisting of approximately 11,000 kilometers of track and some 40,000 kilometers of cable, is kept as far as possible as the legal system of the Republic of Croatia allows, one social, general interest character and one perspective to develop as such. And this law makes it possible. However, we encourage all municipalities and cities to use solutions from this law to prove that they are the infrastructure operators. That is why two possible solutions are listed as becoming an infrastructure operator under this law. One possible solution is to prove this through a legitimate building permit, if municipalities or cities or their legal predecessors have built DTK, in a simple way can prove their character, assume the responsibility of an infrastructure operator, establish all necessary services, take all necessary measures, make it legal and rent further in a fair way to other potential and interested users of the use of DTK. That's one way. Another way is uninterrupted possession over a period of three years. So if the city or municipality, and why not do so, declares that she is the owner of DTK then she simply has to prove it if she is not distracted in three years she will become a DTK, a pardon infrastructure operator. In order to avoid dilemmas, the law also provided for the avoidance of double infrastructure operator status on the same track in such a way that that infrastructure operator status on one track must be reported to the regulator, and that the regulator will establish the accuracy of the application and, of course, register that the infrastructure operator in that channel is that and that legal person, so the municipality or city if it is active enough, if what we are saying now, what we are declaring for the last 15 months is ready to apply and I must say that some cities have already done so, that they are very active. There are no obstacles to others doing the same. Everyone else where other current operators are going to be, and let's not forget that some have invested more, and some have shown up in recent months, so it wouldn't be so good if we just told them all at once, let's take it all and start all over again. That might not be the best approach. So even in cases where municipalities and cities would not find it necessary to prove their infrastructure operator status, they will also make revenue based on this law for the first time as far as I am known from the status that they possess. Here are just some of the remarks. As the time is up, I'll use the opportunity and the opportunity to report more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11027	Thank you. At 10:52 a.m., the time for 10 minutes has elapsed. We have a correction to the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11028	Thank you very much. I would correct the two incorrect allegations that Mr. Secretary of State said. The first is that the law is well-communicated with all operators and all stakeholders and the local community. If that were not the case, we are witnessing contacts and in some way the objections of all alternative operators that exist in the field of electronic communications other than one. In addition, I do not understand how municipalities or the city could be registered as the owner of the infrastructure under this Article 28 says that it is used by electronic communications infrastructure. How is this used, say, in the municipality of Bedenica or some other municipality that has that infrastructure on it, so that it can be registered to become an infrastructure operator. I don't think this law allows it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11029	Thank you. It is up to Madam Representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11030	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I support and welcome the proposal for a law on electronic communications delivered to the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia for several reasons. Let me say it again, even though we have heard it from the promoters, and some colleagues have said it in their debate. First of all, the Electronic Communications Act with the P.Z.E. marking 96 is a legislative measure set out in the national programme of the Republic of Croatia for accession to the European Union for 2008 in which Croatian legislation is aligned with the relevant acquis of the European Union in the field of electronic communications networks and services. In the process of meeting the conditions for Croatia's full membership in the European Union and the adoption of this law, the negotiations in Chapter 10 are closed. – information society and media covering the field of electronic communications. The second reason is that I welcome and point out, i.e. I stress a serious approach to the development of such a complex law containing 135 articles, which is also witnessed by 15 months of work on its work and compliance with the five Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2002, one Commission Directive of 2002 and, in particular, the 2006 Directive, one decision and one 2000 regulation. The quality of the law preparation is also witnessed by two public debates with all participants in the Croatian electronic communications market where out of 485 observations, opinions and proposals were received and incorporated into the law almost 30% or more precisely 143. Do we know that we are in the design of the law of a European consulting company and that the final draft law is in line with the informal opinion of the European Commission, I appreciate that all of this should be a guarantee that will allow quality implementation and application of this law once it has been discussed here in this assembly and adopted. First of all, it should be said that the proposal for a Law on Electronic Communications replaces the current Law on Telecommunications of 2003, had its amendments in 2003, 2004 and 2005, which regulated the area of telecommunications and radio communications. It is important to stress that the current law was in line with the old European Union telecom regulatory framework of 1998 and that subsequent amendments to the laws were in line with the provisions of the new regulatory framework of the European Union, which has been in force in the Member States of the European Union since mid-2003. Following the example of most Member States of the European Union in the proposal for this law, regulatory transactions in electronic communications and postal services are pooled, in particular the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency is established to achieve additional synergy effects, I apologize, strengthen the administrative and financial capacity of the common regulatory body, and all of this in order to further institutional strengthening, ensure independence and effective achievement of the regulatory tasks of the national regulatory authority in electronic communications and postal services. In my debate, I would remain at the establishment of the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency, which is detailed in this bill. The founder of the Agency is the Republic of Croatia. Fundamental rights are being exercised by the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The agency for its work corresponds to the Croatian Assembly. Defined as a national regulatory agency, an agency promoting competition in the performance of electronic communications networks and services, and electronic communications infrastructures and related equipment, promotes the interests of users of services and contributes to the development of the internal market of the European Union. The Agency shall be an independent, independent and non-profit legal person with public authority within the framework of the delirquent and jurisdiction prescribed by this law and a special law governing the area of postal services. The Agency shall be managed by the Board of the Agency, consisting of seven members, including the President and the Vice-President of the Council of the Agency. The President, the Vice-President and the members of the Council shall appoint the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Croatian Government which is required in the procedure of appointment to call or publish a public invitation to propose candidates for members of the Board of the Agency. The term of office of the members of the Council shall be five years and may be re-appointed. The President of the Council shall represent and represent the Agency and shall be responsible for the legality of the Agency's work. It is important to highlight the conditions to be met by a member of the Council in order to be a candidate for a member of the Council in order to be appointed. They are a graduate university study or a specialist graduate professional study in the field of electronic communications, postal transport, rights or economies with appropriate working experience, as well as an active knowledge of at least one foreign language and this law has established English, German or French. At least one member of the Council must have completed a graduate university study or a specialist professional study in the field of electronic communications, postal transport, law or economy where five members of the Board of the Agency must have at least five years of working experience in the field of electronic communications and two members of five years of work experience in the field of postal services. The members of the Council shall act professionally and as Council workers shall have the right to pay, which shall be determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This law also determines who cannot be a member of the Agency's Council. Clearly, state officials, persons acting in office in the bodies of political parties, local government bodies, trade unions and others. The conditions for the resolution of members of the Council and their rights and obligations after resolution have also been established. So, for a year, they cannot be members of the management, supervisory board or board of directors in legal entities to which the provisions of this Act or the Postal Service Act apply. For that year, they have the right to compensation in the amount of the last salary paid in the month before discharge from duty. Those other, professional, administrative and technical tasks in the Agency shall be carried out by the Agency’s professional service managed by the Director of the Agency. The Director of the Agency shall be responsible for the work of the Agency and shall be responsible for its work to the Agency's Council. The transitional provisions state that, with the effect of this law, existing members of the Council of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency and the President of the Postal Services Council shall continue to work as members of the Council of the Croatian Postage and Electronic Communications Agency until the expiry of the period on which they are appointed by the basis of the provisions of the clearly existing Telecommunications Act or the Law on Mail. The President of the Council of Croatian Telecommunications shall become the President of the Council of the Agency and the President of the Postal Services Council shall be the Deputy President of the Council of the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency. What should be particularly highlighted in this composition of the members of the Council of the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency is the cyclicity of their amendment so that the mandate of no member of the Agency's Council does not match and does not correspond to the mandate of a certain authority. Since the implementation of this law does not require additional funding from the state budget, and how this law establishes both a quality and effective regulatory framework which is essential for further development of the activities of electronic communications networks and services and the full integration of this sector into the single European market, and thereby directly contributes to increasing the competitiveness of other economic services, enables Croatian consumers to have lower prices, wider choice of services and more quality of service, which also increases the quality of everyday life and the work of all citizens and entrepreneurs in Croatia, I will support the adoption of the Law on Electronic Communications in an emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11031	Thank you. Replica, representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11032	Dear colleagues, it would be good for us to hold the debates as advocates on the basis of more information that we acquire and impress ourselves by reading a certain law, and not actually, sometimes, uncriticalally, actually interpret what the promoter gives us in the light of the law. In your discussion, you said, among other things, that the law is in line with the informal opinion of the European Commission on this law. I have here this opinion of the European Commission which makes eight or nine very serious remarks. Among other things, speaking of the right path, etc. says quote... [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11033	In Croatian.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11034	So they make a serious complaint that leads to a certain confusion of the solutions that are in the law, which the applicant did not accept. Or elsewhere, speaking of article 28 which they now interpret as being infrastructure operators, they are exclusively called, since we chair the neda in English read, and I only have English text, where they say...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11035	Not that I don't, but you should, you need in Croatian.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11036	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11037	Well, you need it in Croatian. The official language is Croatian in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11038	Now I'm going to be exaggerating. Unfortunately, I will not be able to quote you, but I will be happy to give you this document that says that the application of non-discrimination principles must be applied in Article 28, because they say that although they formally agree in the same situation, they are actually being brought into an unequal position because of the state of infrastructure. Therefore, not only is the law not in line with these fundamental remarks, informal remarks from the European Commission, but there is written evidence for this. And that's why it would be very good when we discuss the laws we don't bring down discussions on those critical interpretations of what's in the explanation. And secondly, when it comes to public debates and can be said O.K., this is a public debate if all participants who are interested, by the European Commission, the consumer, the operator, the local self-government unit, are making remarks to which no one but in no way refers. It's not a public debate that I think we need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11039	Thank you. Reply to the replica of Ms. Suzana Bilić Vardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11040	I thank my colleague for the well-preserved lesson that the ruling party should be taught, and most in this House are critical of the Croatian Government's proposals, i.e. the government that we represent here. That's one thing. The second thing, you say is not harmonised, the declaration of conformity is attached to this bill. And it's ours, and I said it on the boards, and here we heard today, they said, we can't, I'm quoting now and I'm not correcting, "We can't just trust the government." On the right hand side of the Assembly, we can trust the government and believe that the government and the executive authorities are even more responsible to us who trust them. And those responsible must be responsible for us as well as for you. And it would have been good, Comrade Lugarich, if you had come forward for the debate and presented those facts through the replica, but I can see that you are much more professional and that, with much more information you have, you may have been able to contribute to the proposer to correct your bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11041	Thank you. Secretary of State Drazen Breglec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11042	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, it is correct, Madam Parliamentarian, that you have made some of the remarks of the European Commission. That's true, but that's not the whole truth. Maybe you don't know the sequel. After noting informal and informal and never final how the European Commission has always qualified its observations, as presented in this ministry, to the Government, the Proposer. We have fully clarified 7 to 8 remarks in written correspondence. For one quoted first, an additional meeting was needed, which was held, the main, or negotiator for Chapter 10. The information society and the media, Mr Kovačić and my smallness with the presence of employees from our mission to the European Commission in Brussels, held a meeting with Mr Pascal in which the situation was clarified and their observations concerning the solution of the right path, in such a way that we, apart from the usual frameworks applied in the countries of the European Union in Croatian law, have implemented it, we can say and extend it, so that it enables the smooth development and functionality of the overall electronic communication infrastructure. After we have explained our position, the consequences that will result from these solutions, Mr Pascal, and there is a note that I quote from the notes: "...is the opinion that a good balance has been found between the infrastructure available and the communication sector.". So so much for comments 7 completely solved through written correspondence and 1 through the meeting. That is why we dare say that even with the European Commission, this proposal is well-communicated at this point. But in order for the updated truth to be complete, I must also quote the first sentence in this opinion of the European Commission which says: "... that this proposal for a law is a good application of the 2002 European regulatory framework. A year.". This is the first sentence of the Commission's opinion. And then to the law of Article 135 of the 100 pages, 8 remarks less and more that have been clarified in one elegant way in only three of the font pages number 14. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11043	Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11044	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, here I am, at first, apologizing to my colleagues from the SDP for saying a few good words about this law, but I don't think I'll mind. The Law on Electronic Communications is certainly a contribution to the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the acquis of the European Union. And normally with it, you want to achieve institutional strengthening, united... the regulatory body on electronic telecommunications. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That, of course, I don't get into the expertise because I can't do that, so besides the rest, a good consumer protection mechanism has been built as end-users of services. And the service is normally not always in line with the contract, so damaged consumers can effectively apply articles of the law that protect their rights. The law also creates preconditions for the full introduction and development of digital television and radio and provides transparent conditions for access and joint use of built electronic communications infrastructures and related equipment. It's often that certain operators, I can tell you that because I've been this many times witness building a infrastructure from Friday afternoon to Monday morning. Clearly, they excavate roads, dig in every possible way, and were rarely stopped only with the help of the police because they worked without any permission, and often illegally and without the knowledge of the owner they used cable sewers. I wouldn't just talk here about small operators who did it most often because even these biggest ones aren't immune from digging without paper. The law makes it clear that the local self-government unit must not discriminate against any operator in the construction of electronic communications infrastructure, but in any case, I repeat, they can discriminate against all those who build without permission, and yet they are the most. The illegal installation of cables may significantly reduce the agency that can make the decision, we see in the article, which obliges the infrastructure operator to enable the user to access and use its electronic communications infrastructure and related equipment together. I believe it can be done without blackmail, so along with, normally with a fee, but that fee should be limited because then the small one will be difficult to compete with the big one. This law does not affect the ownership of a built network because it is often difficult for owners to determine with regard to different sources of financing and construction. Let us remember that before, the infrastructure was built by means only of contributions, so citizens... Well, the mail. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And there will obviously be ownership relations between cities and operatives will obviously continue to be resolved individually. However, the law also gives certain rights to units of local self-government that can increase their revenues. The rights of users are well processed to contain malicious or disturbing callers. There remains a problem with daily calls that aim so it's hard to say malicious but still it's a minor or larger scam, an aggressive marketing type that you got reward dinner, a trip or something like that. Come on, we'll get you that and then we'll get you everything and everything. These calls are almost daily and I think they count on naivety so we should work on user education and disclosure, I can say freely, and repeat fraud. The law is comprehensive, detailed and qualitatively discussing relations between all participants of electronic communications who have been consulted multiplely. We've heard here that there were two circles and I'm not surprised that they're going back to parliamentary deputies with demands, for amendments and so on because normally everything they've been refused is trying to press, which is totally legitimate and legal, but I believe that everything that's been quality, which the operators have recommended is also considered by the promoter. And I think it's totally unnecessary to go into two readings unless it's a little bit of a delay to infinity, and I'll definitely support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11045	Thank you. Replica Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11046	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice-President Markovanovic said that most often operators pushed without a wire through the infrastructure, which is in principle true. And they pushed because the situation had not been defined during all these years or the right to have the right to use the infrastructure equipment or to own it. It's a struggle that's been going on for many years. And you define this law to mean after 3 years of use or with a building permit becomes the exclusive manager of DTK in Croatia. I'm telling you again, it only benefits you to the greatest extent of one operator. All these alternative ones that have become there in the past few years now will not be able to use DTK without the permission of that operator and in some way I believe that they are placed in an unequal competition, and on the other hand, if it is already possible for cities and municipalities to be entered as owners of DTK, although I do not see how they have used DTK in the last three years or more. Why did you not define this by law so that there was no need for anyone other than the city to be an infrastructure operator and to rent operators on the market? So you could have just defined it by law. We're going to do something like that, and we're going to suggest that we don't have any problems. So all the companies on the market will be in the same position, and infrastructure operators will be units of local self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11047	Reply to the replica Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11048	Here's a thank you to my colleague, Maras, but I think he sent most of the replica to the promoter rather than to me. I have to say that as far as ownership is concerned, if it's about overruns, digging hundreds of meters along the road owned by units of local self-government, county or Croatian roads, then I mean, without question, the owner can't do that. Because rarely where, rarely where they just shoved cables into existing cable sewers. So there's always extra digs and everything and I don't think that was right. Everything could have been solved by the papers with permission. We've never discriminated against anyone. We helped everyone we could, so a little goodwill and a question and some paper always came in handy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11049	Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11050	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I first want to apologize if I will repeat some of the things that have been presented in the debate between 10 and 10.45 of our delegation going to Strasbourg next week for the Council of Europe parliamentary assembly has been prepared for this session, so I apologize in advance if I do so. I would like to start by saying that this bill, that this bill came from the government's May-month guidelines, based on the results of the 2004 CARDS project, called "The Strengthening Capacity of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency". If this bill had been made on the basis of a proposal and a recommendation from a consultant company... Internationally and based on a public debate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, in the opening explanation of this law, let me read that sentence, that the adoption of the law will directly contribute to increasing the competitiveness of other economic branches and activities of that Croatian economy as a whole and allow Croatia's end-users to offer lower prices, wider choice of services and higher level of quality of service. So almost perfect, great. Who among us can object to such a presentation of this law? However, colleagues and colleagues, let's face it, we have all received a series of remarks from members of the Telecommunications Service Users Council in the past 7,8 days, by various consumer protection associations, by citizens, by some operators. What does that mean? That's my question, first question to the secretary of state? Does this mean that during the debate, we actually rejected all their proposals for the initiative, so now they're coming back and using our parliamentary representatives to re-expose these objections, but I wouldn't be applying black and white technique here. I want to be perfectly correct, and I have to say that the promoter has been praised for some of the elements he has introduced into this law. Article 43, points 2 and 3 shall first and foremost be mentioned. Let me read those two points for our citizens. Point 2 reads: "Operators of public communications services must provide end-users with adequate protection against abuse and fraud in the public communications network and warn them with that protection in writing before the start of the provision of public communications services." "The end-users of public communications services shall not be obliged to bear the costs incurred by third parties to end-users or public communications service operators in cases where operators have failed to fulfil the obligations set out in paragraph 2 of this Article." However, we now have a series of objections that we are asked to present here in front of our citizens and members of these bodies that I mentioned earlier. First of all, I regret mentioning in some of the objections that the position of the Telecommunications Service Users Council in 1999 was better than today. At that time, the Council was an independent and independent body which had the power to take part in resolving the issue between the provider and the service user. Today it's just an advisory body. It is a pity that neither this government nor the previous government, nor those before it had the strength to try to continue in that direction and strengthen the role of the council. Namely, colleagues and colleagues, let's be honest. Let's just look at the computer in front of us, look at the connections on it. Take that TV at the entrance to this hall, look at the connections on it. How many of us here who know the function of all these connections. Believe me, colleagues and colleagues are the same with telecommunications services. These are technologies that develop so quickly both those information and those of telecommunications and those of biotechnology. To our citizens, users of these services must be provided with assistance especially in the period ahead of us. Indeed they and all of us need this help, that support, that protection. Here in the bill mentions a clear internal establishment unit for the protection of the rights of users and it is also colleagues and colleagues you see according to the proposal of the law advisory. Therefore, the conclusions and views of the agency are not binding on either party or party in the dispute, not binding. You need to go to court. I'm going to court to repeat myself with such systems whose technologies the citizens don't know. What are their chances? Very small, very small, because clearly they are systems that measure user services and everything else in the hands of the operator. How many citizens can and what arguments are protected from unfair decisions in such disputes. It's a recurring story you've probably all met with about the Consumer Protection Act. Many citizens remind us again and mention here that this law should be followed, that sales to consumers of public services when the nature of public services allows must be calculated according to consumption. Once again, the citizens are rebelling, asking for protection from us regarding the monthly fees of this species or that of that species. There's already been words here from DTK. I especially want to repeat that many of us have asked us here to clearly ask the Secretary of State to explain what with the DTK that was built without a construction and without a local permit. I hope the secretary of state heard me, because it's really one question we have to try to solve. I really believe that the promoter had to pay more attention to these very requirements of various consumer protection associations. Because I repeat these technologies can be very hard to track. In my opinion, even some of the above mentioned requirements of certain operators may also have been more detailed. I personally think that even at this session we could go in two readings, not to stop the clear process of closing and concluding negotiations with the EU in chapter 10, and therefore there are a number of ambiguities. There's a lot left to hang in the air. I'm sorry about that. I think that we could have absorbed this here in two readings and a month would probably not have meant much in approaching the European Union. Personally, I have to say that I got on the bench just before and a proposal from my colleagues from the SDP on their amendment. I totally agree with him. I couldn't agree more with him. I think they made it very clear that what is true is that the operator who built the infrastructure in the past has the right to travel on that property, so it is explicitly recognised by the right of ownership over that infrastructure. It's discriminatory. That's not correct. Your story about the local community being able to do it. I wonder how many years it's gonna take and how long it's gonna take. Will it come all the way to the European Court of Justice to prove that today's representative of citizens who have been paying for several thousand marks in due time to get a telephone connection, that their successor is a municipality, a city or a third. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11051	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11052	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. It is an extremely complex complex law which undoubtedly means one step forward towards the regulation of extremely complex matter, which is in fact the basis of future knowledge-based business in the knowledge society, in the state of knowledge and in the globalisation of which the European Union is seeking, and then Croatia too. Unfortunately, however, this set of public and private interests and some monopolies such as many predecessors in the debates have already stressed is not the happiest solution, and there are effective ways to effectively donate distribution and telecommunications infrastructure to the biggest monopoly or HT, although this property has not been resolved, but it is an effective donation of certain rights. Moreover, property owners are obliged to tolerate certain rights on their property, which is actually dancing in constitutionality. It is the impression that it is actually the return of some debt in that privatisation of Telecom in a secret contract that has never been presented to the Croatian public, because it was simply a secret and these clauses in that completely non-transparent privatisation actually required the contract to be classified, so there was probably something also mentioned about the DTK problem. However, I would also refer to a few other articles of this law that may give less attention, given that they are overshadowed by the monopolies problem and stop market liberalisation by putting other operators at a disadvantage. The law provides for the creation of a Croatian agency, the establishment of a Croatian Postage and Electronic Communications Agency which, among other things, has the duty to verify the harmfulness of electromagnetic radiation, as referred to in Article 95(3), mentions the Regulation provided for in paragraph 1 of this Article, when necessary for the purpose of effective protection of human health, the issue of a certificate of conformity of the radio station with the provisions of that Regulation confirming that the radio station set does not create levels of electromagnetic field crossing values established by that Regulation. So the agency is tasked with controlling the levels of the electromagnetic field, although they are not quite clear mechanisms for who will actually implement it. It also raises the question of where is cooperation with the State Department for radiation protection, not only ionising but also non-ionizing radiation within the scope of this law? Why isn't it more clearly coordinated cooperation and roles with the State Department for radiation protection? It is interesting that, here are the repressive measures directed towards potential offenders of certain standards and standards in the Republic of Croatia, while, for example, when you go hiking on the Stone weddings and there you want to phone your friends in Zagreb, you have to do it through the Slovenian network because their signal is so strong that in the depths of Croatian territory we have Slovenian signals and so strong that they probably dipoli in your body dances in the rhythm of the regiment. A similar situation is happening around Palagruža or in the apple cauldron when, say, sail and watch in the distance as they brake bright, but of course those Italian because it's a former ZERP, you're trying to figure out what kind of time it's going to be tomorrow, try to get on the Croatian radio 1st program or Croatian Radio 2nd program, but you're listening to Italian cancones. Out of a bunch of wild, wild, legal Italian radio stations. It is possible to say that this Parliament has abolished the fishing and ecological component of the former ZERP, and then perhaps, here it does not enter the domain of environmental protection, but a similar situation is repeated to you when you leave the St. Rok tunnel and try to listen to Radio Zagreb, or Croatian Radio 2, you cannot, it is shaded, there is no signal. The whole part of Istria is also overshadowed by Italian, which TV, which by radio stations. Of course, this may not be in the domain of this Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications, it is more in the domain of the entire government, i.e. the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which should be fiercely protested because all of what I have described is contrary to international law, especially with the conventions of the European Broadcasting Union, CELENEC standards and recommendations of the International Commission for the Protection of Non-ionising Ray, which all the recommendations, standards and norms of Croatia have been incorporated into its legislation, which, there it is, not wanting to strengthen its signals, but these neighbours are rudely doing so, not paying attention to European law to all possible norms. This is especially visible at the time of the annual holidays when a large part of foreign tourists are flying on our coast that such signals are becoming rudely reinforced, so that there is real aggression on Croatian ether. It is also interesting that Article 24 establishes a solution that, if there is no appropriate binding norm or technical specifications published as Croatian norms, CELENEC, ECI and CEN standards apply, etc. Does this mean that the Croatian Normal Institute actually accepted all these standards at a small door through this law? Why did they not do so through technical committees or simply by publicly accepting all these standards that they had set in Article 24 of this Law? Of course, it's not a question again to this ministry, it's more of a question to the competent authority. And finally to conclude, I believe that this law defines and manages a top internet domain in one article, but this problem is too complex to be solved this way, and I think that this would be a need to be resolved by a special legal act, best by some rule. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11053	Correction of the incorrect allegations, Ms. Representative Nedelja Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11054	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable representatives of the government, state secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. Here I would like to correct the allegations of Mr. MPs who said, among other things, that the proposal for a law on electronic communications is being overshadowed by a monopoly. I would say that this proposal through it shows that the Croatian Telecommunications Agency has continuously implemented activities and measures to regulate the market for telecommunications services in the period 2004 to 2008 and mainly through a series of decisions of the same kind that have enabled full demonopolisation and further liberalisation of the Croatian telecommunications market. In addition, the proposed law also ensures that, among other things, it ensures consistent application of the principle of technological neutrality as well as the construction between others and effective consumer protection mechanisms as the end-user of services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11055	Replica, Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11056	A colleague... actually the same statement that counterpart Klaric called only with a significantly different argument. You have expressed in some way the skepticism that certain solutions to the law favors the former monopolies, i.e. T-Coma. The prospectus for the sale of HT shares on page 238 introduces this right-of-way regime that has not existed so far in the law, introduces itself by this law, and even in this prospectus says that the government will, within its powers, draft the relevant laws and regulations, make this very law possible and that it is practically before possible to ensure the adoption of such laws and regulations necessary for the implementation of the principles described above. So everything that's agreed on the privatisation of T-Com. And then even on page 239 they say what time it will be. It says it will be adopted in early 2008. So even before we discussed this law with the general principles throughout the story of the privatisation of T-Com, it was determined whether the law was just passed and not just like this. And now if it's not a guess, I think it's still a little above... Thank you very much. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11057	Replica reply, Mr. Zdenko Franić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11058	Honored MP Lugaric, you are right, because here is another eclectic proof that the monopolies are actually telling the government how to behave, although here's the government is a minority owner of T-Com, so that in this way it favors itself, and it may also be incomeing some funds. But once again, a rhetorical question arises, why not protect the own interests and interests of the operator it owns, to prevent the rooming of these GSM companies, service providers from neighbouring countries of Slovenia, Bosnia, Italy, Serbia that are all doing eto aggression on the Croatian ether and in particular, as I said during the annual holidays. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11059	Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11060	Dear Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We've been having a lot of discussion about this, discussing technical variations like this or those for the market, one or the other. But I think, perhaps only colleague Vujic in his debate touched and mentioned it, personally I think this is one of the most important laws that we can discuss in Croatia. In this law I see a public interest in the Republic of Croatia, for the development of a knowledge society then in some way and indirectly for the development of the economy. In most developed countries, people have assessed and measured in fact that 60% of gross social products belong to the liberalisation of telecommunications infrastructure and, of course, to welcome all those solutions that go towards further liberalisation, that is to say, in some way to introduce order in this telecommunications market, and in that sense, this law in the good part has well regulated certain things that have not been regulated so far and which have really been regulated and which are not at all controversial in this law, this is the largest part of the law. I think despite this good starting point and a good idea, certainly and well-intentioned, that in certain legal solutions we've actually gone way too far above our still relatively poorly developed, but perhaps it's more accurate to say, an unstable market. We have taken over not only the European directives but also the guidelines that exist in Europe, which have not only taken over European countries, even those that have a significantly more developed telecommunications market, and we have therefore entered our legislation and implemented guidelines that are actually very advanced for the current situation in our market. We, of course, believe that it was best to achieve it, but we seem also the basis of everything that was heard here and here in the debate and all of the contacts we had, that instead of the new and solutions needed, of course for further liberalisation of the market, we received a law which in some of its provisions that were crucial, on the one hand, still less, go hand in hand hopefully not intentionally, to one operator. This may mean, it is not necessary, but may mean further monopolisation or at least stopping further market development or small operators. Of course, I'm not here as a advocate of small operators or big ones or anything, but I'm a advocate of a fair match, not for the market, not for the game, but because competition as such gives better services, cheaper for the users, but on the other hand, and much better. Even today in Croatia, we are struggling to explain the Internet widely as a everyday person in every household, and to talk about the development of the economy, about the development of a knowledge society without having a wide network available is very problematic. Second, what's somewhere standard, so some kind of... The Internet that actually speeds it up a lot, we still have non-standard service, we're still struggling with speeds, packages, etc. And I think that's exactly when we talk about this law, we have to put our first vision of public interest, or society of knowledge. According to sources and the World Bank, the key role of... knowledge economies and societies is played by modern information and communication technologies, infrastructure services, already mentioning broadband Internet access and namely to prove a strong link between ICT, the economy and the knowledge society, I think is not too necessary, but enough to say that the countries leading ICT are also the most economically competitive. The World Bank measures these indices of the development of a knowledge society, including ICT itself as an integral element, and we have an index of 7.07 and we are far away from Slovenia and Estonia, and we are better both Barbados and Bahrain and Kuwait and some other countries that would not expect to have such a level, such development in this sector. So when I talk about this law, on the one hand, we can talk about technical solutions like this or those, but I think we have to assume everything public interest in some way in this big picture that should actually be the thought of guidance for all of us when we adopt this law. I'm also sorry this law doesn't go into two readings. We heard through the public that there were certain modes of public debate, that the law was published on NET, that different consultations were set, etc., hundreds of objections came. However, the fact is that everything that did not go in some way in that concept proposed by the applicant was not accepted from the comments and that is among other reasons why I think it is really necessary to discuss it in two readings. In the end, the laws are not passed by the Government with the support of the public debate of these or those interested actors, but are nevertheless passed by the Croatian Parliament. If we'd gone to two readings, we could really solve this part of the dispute that came from my point of view, from the point of view of protection of public interest. The whole story about consumer protection, it seems to me that a colleague of Doric was talking about that which offers some new solutions, as representatives we have received a lot of remarks and about it, we have a lot of details in the law that need to be resolved, spam SMS, MMS and so on. which, in fact, in some ways, the law for the first time introduced it as concepts. However, in the fourth article that prohibits the abuse of this all together, there is no such thing. So there's a lot more details. Col. Franić mentioned the management of the top domain, etc. So it seems to me that really because of the public interest of Croatia, it would have been better if we had discussed this in two readings. I only have one question before the hearing ends. It seems to me that we will have to do part of it, and I am interested in changing the Law on Electronic Media which introduces the regulation of electronic publications, and then, as such, the whole of the Internet, these websites, etc. related to electronic and rules publishers. And I don't think it's enough for us to have this framework on the one hand, and on the other hand, the Law on Electronic Media that doesn't actually follow all these new events that happened specifically about broadcasting radio and television over the Internet, for which we are now getting some kind of first technical conditionality. But on the other hand, we don't have this public section solved in any way. I, although I would be most fortunately personally if I could support this law because I repeat, I think it's one of the key laws that we can discuss, but it seems to me that the real name of some details that even if they cause doubt deserve attention that any doubt is removed, that then we can really pass the law by consensus, as at the end of this law deserves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11061	Thank you. Mr. Representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11062	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, So what you should definitely say about the law that he is complex, comprehensive, quite professional and that a great deal has been done and a lot of effort has been put into him and it should be admitted to him. It is in line with the 2002 "new regulatory framework" in line with the harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union and through a whole series of regulations relating to the law itself. However, in addition to the key things that this law covers and which should cover such as simplifying the legislative framework, such as the independence of the regulatory body, such as improving the effectiveness of judicial control mechanisms as three of the most important things, I must say that this is also another law in line with the practice of law-making in the process of joining the Croatian European Union and through an emergency procedure. And that's not good. The process of bringing Croatia closer to the European Union is a process that should also be a public process, in which all citizens of Croatia should participate and when the 121 laws that we need to pass this year are adopted by an urgent procedure, when it is adopted without any subsequent possibility of influencing part of the professional public in the very law to which it applies, then it can definitely not be good. I'm not saying that some laws can't be passed by emergency procedure, but not all laws can be passed by emergency procedure and for this law it would have been much better if he had gone to regular procedure or if he had gone to first and second readings and the same session. Whenever laws are passed in this way by emergency procedure, then, always under the pretext of harmonising with European legislation, something is turned around, to put it so vividly, which absolutely has nothing to do with European legislation, which absolutely has nothing to do with the accession of Croatia to the European Union. And it's already become standard practice. And that's something that me and the SDP deputies have to talk about and we'll talk about in this House. A month ago, we only brought here the Law on ratification of the Charter of Local Self-Government, which we obliged Croatia and the Croatian Parliament to pass laws that will be dealt with in consultations with local self-government units. That's in the '97 Charter. It wasn't. And now, for a month after that, we're practically jumping into our own mouths and without serious consultations with local self-government units in the parliamentary procedure, we're actually passing this law by emergency procedure. And that's what's wrong again. It's the same situation and it's going to be with a bunch of other laws and it's definitely not supposed to work if we adopt something yesterday that we're breaking today. What I would refer to in this law is also related to the debate of my predecessors, a colleague from the SDP on the infrastructure operator or to the resolution of certain segments in this regard. I must say that according to the report, the annual report of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency has been made the greatest progress in the liberalisation of the market, and some representatives have heard it, right where we do not have infrastructure underground. So it's in the mobile network. The biggest step in liberalisation. We are far behind in liberalising markets that include underground cables, i.e. that include fixed telephony and that include broadband Internet. And that's where the problem is. 15 billion kuna per year in revenue is this economic activity. 15 billion kuna per year is 7% of everything Croatia produces. 7% of all that Croatia produces is 15 billion kuna and it is therefore extremely important to approach this law in one more comprehensive way and therefore it would be extremely important to go to another reading. What I must say is that it seems to me that this Article 28th definition of infrastructure operators, and a fellow State Secretary, you have said that this article will allow units of local self-government to be entered as owners of infrastructure operators on the basis of a building permit and that in case there are two requirements based on the truthfulness, the regulator, i.e. the agency will intervene and in fact be what the judge would say in that procedure. However, which municipality and which city in Croatia has a building permit for DTK devices. I don't know. Do you have a building permit for DTK devices? I don't think you do. So Croatian Post Office, HPT, when he was building DTK devices he had an exclusive building permit then and the only ones then have a building permit. But unfortunately by this principle by... Another way is introduced and in some ways punishes those cities, primarily cities in Croatia that have moved far away in scanning the situation in the area of infrastructure installations and building new installations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Like Zagreb, such as Rijeka and even Koprivnica. So those who have now built their own infrastructure network, which in order to earn something from this infrastructure network, are now essentially not worth it anymore because any operator who comes can drag its cable anywhere, through any property and lays the right path and pays a certain fee. However, that fee is determined by the agency. So, units of local self-government, I agree that we should introduce some order but won't be able to achieve all those strategic projects through tariffs, i.e. through the payment of that fee. The free Internet will become part of the laws of some countries in 50 years, and eventually the Constitution. The right to free communication will soon become a right like fundamental human rights because it is something where the world and where society can develop best and fastest. And we have already seen from the debates of some colleagues that just in the new technology, which uses new ICT technology, and in this industry that meets new technologies, the biggest shift has been made, and that industry has made the most progress, and that economy has picked up the largest benefit. So I think, and in the first proposal that came as one kind of draft is this second, i.e. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. But since this was too obvious, then that item has been changed to at least three years since the beginning of its use. In order not to put into an unfair and discriminatory position by the European Commission's recommendations and criticisms of other operators, I suggest that all representatives of the Croatian Parliament accept in some way the amendment of the SDP's Club of Representatives to delete the complete article 28. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11063	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11064	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague incorrectly stated that it was a hasty procedure, that this was an emergency procedure unnecessary, that it should have been done in two readings. My friend, I'm sorry, you should have seen the P.Z.E. mark, and then you should have asked your club that we all agreed together and SDP and HDZ and all the other breaks that the laws and proposals of the law with such markings go into emergency procedure. And there's no discussion about that. So you don't have to convince the Croatian public now that we want to spend something hasty when we agree on it. This is about harmonising with European laws. Therefore, there is no reason not to say clearly, that this law will certainly contribute to units of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11065	Replica Mr. Zavodnik Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11066	So you're with the right colleague... point out the question of building permits. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The question arises here whether a building permit can be written in Article 28 or whether it has to write a valid permit. Today, on the basis of a building permit, you can't make any registrations or any notes in the garter, you have to have a useful permit. One reason is because the mass of exactly DTK sewerage was not built according to the building permit, they were issued in principle and then HT co-operatives, or HPTs, were digging through cities as they had reached them and as they wanted them to. Today, cities tend to have problems because the DTK sewerage is superior to the sewerage of cities such as gas, water, or classical sewerage. Therefore, not that you can't register on construction grounds, it's quite certain that you can't register on the basis of a building permit because the construction law says you can't register anymore. So you have to have a document on usability. That until recently was a confirmation, and today you need to have a technical examination done. Therefore, if we really want to be honest with who created and built and who signed up, then we need to replace the building permit with the applicable permit here. The operator has to prove that he has a valid building permit, he has to prove that he built according to that building permit and that he's got all the papers solved. And then indeed, one who has a valid permit should have the opportunity to register in some way in the right of service or in the right of right or in a third way. It's absurd to give a right to someone who doesn't have this previous thing, which means he doesn't have a contract on the right of service with the owner of the property, regardless of whether it's generally good or private property and whoever didn't or don't know whether he was building a building permit. Therefore, this law may be in line with European Union directives, but Article 28 certainly does not comply with the Construction Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11067	Replication response, Mr. Representative Davor Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11068	Dear fellow Mršić, in your replica you have partly absorbed what I have already said, so everyone in the future will be able to have a checkout without this true service with units of local self-government with or with the property that goes through. And since you yourself have explained from the building aspect the complexity of the matter resulting from Article 28, it would have been good if this law had gone as we said on two readings. And why do I think that? Two readings are a model of how some things are handled and how some things are fixed. You saw yesterday and colleague Matusic, who honored me with two readings that the prime minister had downloaded the Law on Public Roads exactly, which also bears the label P.Z.E. So it's not necessary to go to an emergency procedure automatically. About certain laws that mean life for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, about certain laws that are extremely important in the process of bringing Croatia closer to the European Union. In certain laws for which there is no clear picture of what they will take to Croatia, it is necessary for the public to hear something about these laws, that Croatia is not only delivered to the Union, but that the public in terms of, in particular, the professional public is manifested certain things. Because unfortunately, we're pressed by the deadlines. There are no options, if there is no time for two readings, then there can be time for a professional simulation. That's just impossible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11069	Mr. Representative, please? Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11070	Honored Vice President, my colleague did not stick to the replicas of his colleague, but addressed me as a representative. I'm... What I said. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I made it very clear to my colleague. The emergency procedure is agreed as well... Whether or not the government will take him down is another matter. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11071	Mr. Representative Boris Sprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11072	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. In these few minutes, I will talk about the constitutional and legal aspect of Article 28, i.e. the idea of the right path as I see it and where I see the danger that this time, unlike the Road Safety Act, where the SDP will file a constitutional suit. This time, I believe he'll be putting up with someone else. But I'm afraid it will succeed in the constitutional court dispute. I'll tell you what it's about if I can. The Commission notes that the measures provided for in The Constitution states: “The right of ownership is guaranteed.” in Article 50. The Constitution states: “It is possible in the interest of the Republic of Croatia to limit or confiscate property with a remuneration of market value.” Paragraph 2 of the same article: “Employment and ownership rights can be exceptionally restricted by law for protection”, so we have four cases of “interest and security of the Republic of Croatia, nature, human environment and human health.” “Right way and right to access the installation, use, repair and maintenance of the electronic communications network and electronic communications infrastructures and related equipment including cable sewerage as well as other related rights.” And now this sentence, last in point 41, reads: “The manager of general goods or the owner of real estate is obliged to suffer the right path and refrain from any action that would in any way interfere with the exercise of that right.” Mr. Breglec said it was a new legal institute. I asked him at a meeting of the Transport Committee if this legal institute was consulted with legal experts. So experts who probably know when such an important institute with this kind of content is entering into the legal system to give their opinion. The answer was yes, but within the framework of the state service. I asked legal experts. There are, therefore, legal experts in the state departments I do not dispute, but those who work in science who write new textbooks every day and who are more in contact with the European Union and their institutions than we are in state services. So the answer is actually that it's not well-consulted, it's not enough. This institute if I may observe with my humble legal knowledge most resembles so-called. Right through. It almost draws on that institute that is otherwise known, but the right to pass for any real estate when it comes to the right passage must be made by a court decision. So it's completely different from this content that norms the right way. I have two questions. First question. Based on which the right of ownership is limited, because it is about restricting the right of ownership hidden under that name, the right to travel and to enter into the right of ownership of units of local self-government, natural persons and legal persons. Because the Law of Property and other real rights which is the fundamental law governing the relations of the institutes in this area does not know the institute of the right path. HT is hiding behind who might be the owner and legally well-sponsored as the owner of the infrastructure of the one we're talking about, and HT is not in the majority ownership of the state. Then what is the general interest of the Republic of Croatia to meet him? It's no longer in the majority ownership of the state. So there's a violation of the Constitution. Second question. When a law on behalf of a company not owned by a majority of the state establishes the right of entry into other people's rights that these relations will be resolved tomorrow when they are already complicated, and this institution still refers to retroactive application. He's no ordinary application. He's a fact-finding retroactive application, and we've solved it, and we needed that question in the society of court decisions but we haven't solved it. But now we're dealing with the law completely wrong. Because then, to continue with the question, property will be even more dispersed. Then it won't be in any relative possession when it's applied tomorrow and what's all the danger and that's why I'm saying it. And final. I have to notice yesterday we had a proposal for a strategy to combat corruption. The first point relating to how to apply this strategy was to respect the rule of law and the principle of legality, and we seem to be working from session to session to violate this principle. I don't think that's good, and I think that's gonna get us in, take us to the wrong street that's gonna be hard to get out of. We'll have big consequences and negative consequences. I therefore appeal that the principle of legality is more taken into account in this House when we adopt laws and less about the principle of purpose which should also be respected but which must be in combination with a happy application. And I would end up saying the same thing to myself that this law has done a lot of good things, a lot of good institutes of others, and I would congratulate Mr. Breglec and his team on that, but I am warning you of this problem and I am completely warning this problem we are going to have a very big problem if we are going to apply this institute like this, right on the road as provided for by this law or legal proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11073	Thank you. Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11074	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. During the debate on this law, I would focus on two important facts that follow the adoption of this law. The first is the fact that such a comprehensive law is passed by emergency procedure with the dissatisfaction of most operators except for one proposed solution. These other facts relating to the DTK system and the existence of a large number of open and unresolved issues relating to the DTK. As far as emergency proceedings are concerned, a lot has been said but the argument that this law is already widely discussed can indeed be applied then to any law. Then the question arises why do we even need two readings for any law? So I think even though you wear the P.Z.E. The law called for two readings, and unfortunately it will not be present. As far as I'm concerned, I'd like to make one more point. When we talk about this law as a representative coming from the island, it is always important that all services available and of course advanced technological solutions available here in the center of Zagreb, Split, Rijeka, Osijek and other cities are available in the shortest time and on the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia and on the islands, and I hope that this law will not spoil the situation so far. As far as DTK is concerned, I will highlight some key problems in relation to the existing state and DTK system. The problems are therefore: the lack and non-transparentity of the regulated system of management, use, maintenance and development of the system. Unsolved ownership-legal relations over the system and legal uncertainty. Problems in practice between existing Telekom operators regarding DTK. This refers to legal procedures, physical cable extraction, inability to access DTK logos and others. The problem of real and legal implementation of the legalisation of the DTK network system, the strengthened current telecom operator competition and the liberalisation of the territory of telecommunications in Croatia, the inability of responsible institutions to react fully and effectively and to address negative phenomena regarding the use, maintenance and development of the DTK system. There are no adequate legal regulations and clear procedures for the DTK system for individual cities in Croatia. Loss of funds of individual cities and municipalities based on lease, service or use of the DTK system in view of the existing situation. As one example of the solution to this problem, the Croatian legal magazine of April 2006 could serve the city of Split where the SDP participated in city authorities with Telekom operators concluded contracts on the right of service of public surfaces and where compensation for this service is legally collected. So that's one positive example. There are others in Croatia, although only in one part, the real service of public areas. The legal framework for regulating the use of the DTK system must provide clear answers to questions on who has the right to use the existing system and under what conditions? Both technically and priced. Who has the authority to give the DTK system for use, sign the right to use contracts and what procedures? The question of how to install telecommunications cables and expert supervision should be discussed. Models of use of future systems i.e. should be considered. A new route of DTK that is yet to be built. In the end, good lines of communication should be established, not electronic but ordinary day-to-day operational communications in relation to urban headships, agencies, water cadastre, operators. There is also a question of a management entity to monitor and control the DTK system. There is a sensitive issue of maintaining the system in terms of the safe and complete functioning of individual networks. Specific arrangements should be drawn up for the maintenance of the system with users, etc. "service level agreement." The word is two about the development of the DTK system, which primarily refers to the construction of new routes, channels, DTK systems in cities, both in locations where something still needs to be built and where it wants to improve. The DTK system should definitely be developed in parallel with the construction of other construction facilities and infrastructure systems in cities and municipalities but in accordance with existing spatial planning documents. Prior to the construction of the new DTK routes itself, the necessary telecommunications capacities of existing Telekom operators should be carefully planned, so that public calls should also be made to existing operators for the provision of information on telecommunications capacities needed. So when all of this is done then under clear conditions one operator can be allowed to co-finance the construction of new routes along with the city or municipality so that the contract can provide him with a discount, a certain time free use and so on. But for all I've been saying, it takes a clean legal situation that this law doesn't make things much worse and certainly doesn't solve them. I believe that the positive effect of the liberalisation of Telekom market and, as some operators warn, could be annulled because the Croatian Telekom market is not ready for this regulatory framework. It seems to me, therefore, that we are also prescribing the rules of a competition in which we allow one of the teams playing that game to have one or several more players and only the question is which are and where are you and such players sitting. My colleagues who have more legal knowledge have looked back at the institute of the right path. I'm not sure we're on the right track with such a defined right path. And I'm afraid that due to the right path many of the engineers that Croatian companies have hired might be on the way. Fortunately not on the road, but unfortunately on a trip abroad to countries that have a slightly better regulated market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11075	Thank you. Final Review State Secretary Drazen Breglec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11076	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will try in the limited time at my disposal to briefly refer to some of the remarks I made since my last announcement in good faith that the MPs will receive a satisfactory answer. Mr. Gordan Maras mentioned and stated that why couldn't anyone else be an infrastructure operator other than the T-HT unit of local self-government? At the beginning of the debate, the thesis was made that no one else could but T-HT. I see progress in this matter because it's a perceived explanation that they can be units of local self-government, and I'm going to complete it by absorbing this matter. It may be an infrastructure operator and any other operator who, under the same provisions of this law, by the same criteria as the units of local self-government, as well as T-HT on a specific route can prove that it is on that particular course or participated in construction in a way that has owned a building permit or used that DTK uninterrupted for 3 years, as a compromise proposal has been accepted in the public debate. Yes, and to clarify that mystery, the original proposal relating to the 20 years of undisturbed DTK property as a criterion for obtaining the infrastructure operator's status was motivated absolutely positively because the position that as long as the time limit of the uninterrupted property is, it is a minor doubt as to whether this DTK is set up there with the right, whether it is sustainable at that destination, at that location, on that track. But above all, alternative operators' demands were, the new operators were to cut that deadline, we accepted it and shortened it. Mr. Dear Representative Doric touched on the questions of the TK Consumer Council which he proposes to abolish by this proposal of the law. I would like to remind you that it was established by the basis of the current law in 2004, that during these unfulfilled 4 years, their inferiority has been established in relation to the problems that are being put before them, i.e. justified expectations of users and therefore has contributed to a better way of resolving the user's observations, the user's request is to establish an internal administrative unit in the agency. And their work should be forwarded to the Agency's Council, a regulator that already has a legally defined option of making obligator decisions for operators. It would not be appropriate to give another authorisation to a body which has been originally conceived as advisory where there is already a Council of the Agency which is authorised to draw binding conclusions which are to be followed by all. The absolute protection of users goes also by this law, a step forward is made, it is fully in line with the positive, good solutions of the Consumer Protection Act, will no longer be possible to turn off the subscriber before the end of the dispute, of course if the subscriber respects and makes a timely complaint and this is settled by this Explicate Law. So, no more, I'm going to shut you out of the network, and you need a phone every day, so you complain, but the reverse subscriber will be able to receive and be in a position to use that part of the electronic communications service that he used and so far, provided that the undeniable part of the bill continues to pay, and for the part that's controversial, the dispute when it ends then will, of course, act as it is set in the right word. Furthermore, in the last round of the debate, Mr Vujic also touched on one important topic, so moving from analogue to digital broadcasting, and I want to give this House here some information about the fact that the ITU has taken a position, that 2015 would be a deadline for digital broadcasting, that it is a recommendation of the European Commission to be in 2012, and that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has drawn up a deadline, and that this will soon be made public and professional and universal through a strategy that is in the final phase of production, so the strategy of switching from analogue to digital broadcasting and the basis of this law and after the strategy will be adopted a rule which will be found from that strategy and further translated into the executive actions that the authorities need to implement. Based on Mr Franic's remarks that there are secret contracts that have never been published, I will repeat several times, there are no secret contracts, summary of the '99 privatisation contracts. and in 2001 they are published even now and are still on the Ministry's website today. Nothing relevant from those contracts is hidden. There are no tails from these privatisation phases at this time and I will link it to the remarks of Ms. Honorable Assembly MP Lugaric, who presented the thesis that the right path has already been mentioned in the process of the third phase of privatisation in the public offering, it is pointed out and that is true, but I would not say that it has prejudged and predetermined the solution in this law, but rather vice versa. That, in this process that we know happened last year before this law was passed, instruments that are available, which already exist and have been proven in the European Union. So, when it was mentioned for the first time the right path to further development of DTK and other electronic communications infrastructures would be possible, it was in line with positive practice, and it did not commit this implementation of DTK, or the right path to this law, although, of course, by the same analogy, the instrument of the right path is recognized as the one that for Croatian circumstances, the complex circumstances of property law may be, not perhaps, but certainly the best. Let me also use this opportunity and declare myself to the amendments that are, before I declare the amendments, there were still two objections that I consider necessary here to be manifest. The esteemed representative Šprem put out, asked the question on what grounds is the right of ownership limited? For paragraph 3 of this Act, state interest shall be determined, the interest of the Republic of Croatia in the development of complete electronic communication infrastructure, and we know that it is in accordance with Article 50. The Constitution by law may limit the interests of the Republic of Croatia's right of ownership, so a very simple answer. Of course, we may have discussed on the board how wide a circle of knowledge is involved in such solutions as have been implemented in this law. I can only say the greatest possible that exists currently in the Republic of Croatia, since even in the system of state administration, the Government of the Republic of Croatia becomes absolutely aware legally that we have also used those who have collected their rich knowledge for decades and are currently retired. Since we have also used the best knowledge from Europe, the most prominent consultant house "Cool International" can say that this is a sustainable solution to which we have not received a proposal more concretely and better so far. And in the end, Mr. Bauk, the parliamentary representative, has also expressed dissatisfaction, has actually found that dissatisfaction has been brought out by all operators except HT. That's not true. HT took part in a public debate with 102 concrete remarks, of 485. Of this 102, 30 is fully or partially accepted. I'll remind you of the average of over 29% of the comments received from these 485, so on average and in the same treatment was HT. Finally, on the basis of the amendments submitted by the Legislative Committee, the Proposer accepts the first amendment in full and second, provided that the tipfeller, i.e. the error that has been made, is corrected because Article 118, point 118, of course, is 119, but the first and second and third amendments of the Legislatives Committee are accepted. Furthermore,......... The SDP withdrew the amendment to deleting the article. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay. ... If the amendment to erasing Article 28 has been withdrawn, then there is no need to reject it, and then I would say that it is the basis for the infrastructure operator's status to be granted to local self-government units and alternative operators and that is why it is good and necessary, but good to be withdrawn. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Then, in the meantime, I will show myself to the amendment of Mrs. Assembly Representative Marija Lugaric and say that the first amendment to Article 20, which proposes to cut deadlines in which the agency should settle disputes from 4 months to one month, the proponent cannot accept for a simple reason because it would not be possible to implement this in practice. If a period of 4 months from the regulatory framework that has been literally transferred here was accepted to the amendment in the article, the second amendment would be accepted with an amendment to add the following wording: "electronic mail" adds a comma and the words "including short text messages SMS and multimedia messages to MMS" and the word "electronic mail" further in the text of that paragraph adds the word "recommendation" in order to ensure that the amendment is fully drawn up, but in that case they would accept the amendment as proposed under this amendment. Given that the SDP amendment has been amended and that I have already expressed in the original statement that this is how the proposed article is complete, complete and useful and that amended amendment, which has arrived in the meantime, the applicant refuses. And that's the end of the review of the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11077	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11078	Thank you very much. These are Articles 164, 165, 166 concerning amendments. Namely, acceptance and refusal of amendments follow in the adoption of the law, and here we do not have an amendment to show about your reasons, in addition there was no government, there was no meeting of the Government which is the legislator and which can accept or reject the amendments, but it is less important to me. You will have to come to the vote to repeat this all to your colleague Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11079	In accordance with Article 145 of the Paragraph 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the legislator, shall have the right to provide explanations and to give opinions and to declare himself on opinions, proposals and observations made during the whole debate, and may, in the final one, also be made clear on the amendments submitted. It will be able to show itself about the amendments submitted and the vote on the final draft of the law, but it is not excluded or forbidden to show about the content of the amendments and in this final review, so that it would not be a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Now we have several corrections of incorrect allegations. First Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11080	Thank you very much. I believe that Mr. Breglec heard me wrong, because I did not say clearly that municipalities and cities and other operators could not just enroll, or become an infrastructure operator under this law, but I was talking about something else. I'm not talking about the situation where some city has now made infrastructure and in some ways it's happened in the last few years. I'm talking about 90 and some percent DTK, or the communication infrastructure that was created 20, 30 years ago, and in this case, there's only the possibility that one operator would become an infrastructure operator. So by this law, I'm asking you why you let one company become an infrastructure operator when you could predict just as we have now proposed by our amendment, that infrastructure operators become municipalities or cities. So your choice was to make it one company contrary to municipalities or cities that were equally defined by law, could become infrastructure operators. I said that these municipalities and cities under this law couldn't become infrastructure operators on that communication equipment that was built back 20 and a few years ago. Here was my quote back then.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11081	Second, Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11082	So I'm correcting the incorrect assumption that the building permit is proof that something was done. So the building permit is not proof that something was done. A building permit is a permit to build something. In particular, it is not proof that it was built in accordance with the building permit. With a building permit, you can't sign up anywhere. This right time you won't be able to enter into a garter shop and you'll fool private property owners who will have a property loaded somewhere with the right path that won't be registered anywhere. And secondly, in the second article of Article 28, you legalise illegal construction. Because you said if something wasn't built in accordance with the building permit or there's no building permit, and there's no dispute running, and it's used for three years to get the right way. And tomorrow it'll have to collapse. Therefore, Article 28 certainly does not comply with the Construction Act. You have completely ignored that there is a Construction Act that has introduced new standards and new criteria on how something can be built, how something can be used and how something can be entered into the garland.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11083	Next correction, Mr. Representative Boris Shprem.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11084	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, Mr. Breglec said that he answered my question where a foothold was found to find a new legal institute on the legal path, that it was found in Article 50. The Constitution and that it is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. So, I was talking about something else. I was talking about the fact that the constitutionality of this institute was, above all, questionable, given that it is also being retroactively applied, it was an emphasis, and retroactive. And I don't know what it means to be in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. So I think it is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia to be satisfied also the members of the Republic of Croatia, so the territory of the Republic of Croatia, which is probably the territory of the units of local self-government, natural and other legal persons that are probably in the Republic of Croatia, and their interests are injured. And I was talking about multiple aspects of violation of the constitution, now I don't want to talk about it anymore, but I'm correcting that assumption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11085	And Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11086	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to correct two incorrect allegations of an esteemed secretary of state. The first is, it's incorrect that I said that the dissatisfaction of all operators is except for one, HT. I said the dissatisfaction of most operators except one, and HT pointed out because they didn't express satisfaction, neither would I if I had expressed dissatisfaction with this proposal in their place. And here's the fact that the Committee of Conflict of Interest was formed then I'd report that I'm a small shareholder because I bought shares of HT, but that's what I stressed yesterday, so I'd like to say that so it wouldn't be later. And the other incorrect allegation is when Mr. Secretary of State corresponded to the esteemed representative of Maras and mentioned evolution from this morning until now because we realized that a new rule of law was going on. And imagine how evolved we would have evolved if we'd gone in two readings in the last 15.20 days. Perhaps the law would be much better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11087	Evolution has its own meanings. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11088	We move on to the Final Proposal for the Law on Electronic Communications. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, MP Marija Lugaric and SDP Representatives' Club. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to be shown in the amendments. State Secretary Ivica Perovic. Here you go. Legislative Committee on Article 17.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11089	Mr. President, vice presidents of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11090	Excuse me, excuse me a moment. Here you go, Mr. Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11091	Mr. President, I suggest we vote the amendments by hand... For speed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11092	Thank you. Please enter into force on the amendment, Article 17.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11093	This Regulation shall enter into The Government accepts the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11094	He accepts. It's becoming an integral part. In accordance with Articles 118, 119 and 120 of the Treaty on the Functioning
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11095	The Government accepts the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11096	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Third in Article 131.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11097	The Government accepts the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11098	Thank you. It's becoming an integral part. Then Ms. Marija Lugaric on Article 20, first amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11099	The Government does not accept the proposed amendment. Explanation. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The final proposal of the Law stipulates that the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency must make a final decision on the settlement of the dispute as soon as possible, and as the deadline for decision-making is set for a period of 4 months, which is fully in line with the relevant provision of the Framework Directive 2002/21 of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11100	Thank you. Mrs. Maria Lugaric. She's gone. I am voting on a proposal for an amendment that the government does not accept. Who wants to raise a hand? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Second amendment to the article 107 of Ms. Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11101	The government shall accept in such a way as to ensure that the relevant paragraph 4 of Article 107 is complied with. The final proposal of the Law is complemented in a way that reads as follows: "It is prohibited for direct promotion and sales of e-mail e-mails including short text messages (SMS) and multimedia messages to misrepresent or conceal the identity of the sender in whose name the e-mail is sent as well as sending e-mails or messages without direct email address or number to which the recipient may send a request without compensation for preventing further communication."
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11102	Thank you. There are no MPs, so we will vote on its text of amendments later and on the Government, in fact, acceptance in the second text. Who is for the proposal of Ms. Marija Lugaric? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Who is it? We're going to have to vote on this amended amendment. Who is for this amendment proposed by the Government? Thank you. Who is against this amendment, or the amended text? There isn't. The abstention is gone. 89, unanimous. Thank you. The SDP representative club, first on article, actually one amendment to Article 28.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11103	The Government does not accept the proposed amendment. Explanation. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The final proposal of the Law is appropriately arranged to obtain the right to the path of each infrastructure operator who has already built electronic communications infrastructure and related equipment, which is defined by the very definition of Article 2(1) point 15. The final proposal of the Law may be any legal or natural person who is used for the construction, maintenance, development and use of an electronic communications network, infrastructure and related equipment, which already includes units of local and regional (regional) self-government as well as companies owned by them.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11104	Thank you. On behalf of the club, please, Mr. Zdenko Franić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11105	Dear Mr. Secretary of State. This statement puts minority operators in an unfavourable position on the telecommunications market, as it is foreseen that the operator who built the infrastructure in the past, whether with permission or without permission, has the right to use the property, and an implicitly effective recognition of the right of ownership of that infrastructure and of the real owner of the infrastructure is exercised. The said construction in Zaton is therefore contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia because it empowers existing infrastructure owners and because it prevents the liberalisation of the telecommunications market. We're looking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11106	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I am now voting on the final proposal of the Electronic Communications Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The law was passed by a majority of votes; 68 votes for, 13 abstentions and 4 against, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11107	We're going to the next point 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Roads, with a final proposal for a law, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 94 The Proposer of the Law is the Government. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, the applicant gave up the emergency procedure and will discuss this item of the agenda in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Maritime Affairs, Transport and Links, European Integration, Local and Regional Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure Drazen Breglec will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11108	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Through the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Public Roads, the legal framework is aligned with the legal property of the European Union, in particular with the three Directives of the European Community relating to charges charged for the need of certain infrastructure for heavy goods vehicles, the interoperability of electronic toll collection systems and minimum safety requirements for tunnels on the trans-European road network. In addition to harmonising with the regulation of the European Union, certain amendments and additions to the laws have been proposed in order to clarify the applicable provisions of the law or the most necessary improvements which have been found to be necessary in the course of the current application of the law. Following compliance with those Directives, new provisions are introduced in the applicable law and as follows. The basic criteria for determining the level of the toll according to the vehicle category price class and the length of the stock used on the highway and road object with charge, the category of vehicle determined according to the number of axles or dimensions or weight or type of vehicle, on the principle of non-discrimination for all categories of vehicle, regardless of whether they are owned by legal or natural persons, the budget of the average price which must be proportionate to the costs of construction, maintenance and management, the tariff model must ensure that they do not enter the budgetary average price and the stimulating payment model includes discounts up to a maximum of 13% and are available to all legal and physical persons of the users. Although the Law on Public Roads did not lay down criteria for the determination of toll, valid tolls on our highways are essentially determined by the example of those criteria. Furthermore, the conditions for the interoperability of the toll collection system are regulated, i.e. electronic toll collection systems must enable to charge toll by using at least one of the following technologies: satellite determination of vehicle position, mobile communications, use of GSM standard, GPRS and/or microwave technology at frequency 5,8 GHz. Hatz and concessionaries in Croatia are obliged to contract with each other and other road managers in the European Union or otherwise to ensure that the user of the service... electronic toll charges may be used in all Member States of the European Union and in the Republic of Croatia at least when using highways. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, minimum safety requirements for tunnels are established and apply to tunnels of more than 500 metres on highways and on state roads. These are requirements to ensure the prevention of critical events that may result in the threat of human lives and tunnel installations, and to provide protection in case of accidents. The Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure with the Minister responsible for Internal Affairs and the Minister responsible for the Economy will lay down minimum security requirements for tunnels from the planning phase to the construction and exploitation phase. Subjects are determined to manage the tunnels under public authority and display security parameters in Croatian highway tunnels, Croatian roads, concessionaries. The legal framework for the appointment of security officers for each tunnel will also be set up to coordinate all preventive and protective measures in order to ensure maximum safety of all road users. Those areas are in line with the European Union Regulation, they are established through 7 new articles supplementing the Law on Public Roads. These articles will enter into force on the day of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. As has been said in addition to harmonising the Law on Public Roads with the acquis of the European Union, this proposal also improves some of the existing legal solutions. One such improvement is the addition of the applicable provisions on disabled legal persons, and it represents meeting the requirements of many persons with physical impairment and their associations. In fact, additions to the 2006 law found that the right of a person with a certain degree of physical damage to the use of public roads and highways for a private car owned does not pay an annual fee for registration of motor vehicles and tolls. The proposed addition of the applicable provisions of the law extends that right to persons with a certain percentage of physical damage using a personal car based on a lease agreement. As you heard in the introduction the emergency procedure was removed and in this first reading we will be pleased to listen to the comments carried out, which will be carried out... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11109	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Chairman of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications, distinguished representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11110	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At its 9th session, the Maritime, Transport and Liaison Committee discussed the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing public road laws in the first reading, in accordance with the provisions of Article 89. Rules of Procedure. The opening statement was given by the President of the Proposer, who stressed that this legislation and whose adoption and adoption is a further harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union, in a part that has not yet been fully harmonised or fully harmonised. The law regulates the conditions for the interoperability of electronic toll systems, lays down minimum safety requirements for tunnels in the trans-European road network, i.e. for tunnels of more than 500 metres on highways and state roads, and establishes entities which will manage tunnels based on public authority and establish safety parameters in tunnels. In particular, the Proposer stressed that it is necessary to approach the draft and full Law on Public Roads as soon as possible, since the deadlines and deadlines for the creation of a comprehensive law were not sufficient, and this is why only the amendments and additions of the applicable law were going on. In particular, the discussion at the Committee pointed out that the applicant failed to comply with the law on local and regional (regional) self-government, which is why cities cannot assume their powers, or assume their responsibilities, public road competencies, which otherwise belongs to them in accordance with the law on local and regional self-government. The opinion was expressed that it is not acceptable to lay down the level of discount by law but rather by specific criteria. The question has been asked how the use of emergency services and fire departments on highways, tunnels was resolved by local self-government and concessionaries. Or concessionaires commit themselves to developing their services, emergency services, and fire departments, or paying fees. It has also been assessed unclear whether establishing the highest discount of 13% means eliminating the current applicable discounts that the government of the Republic of Croatia has made by special decision and which are worth discounts on some of the highway's shares. For example, the Zagreb-Macelj highway and discount on the Krapina-Zabok route. Where the former state road was used to build one lane on the highway. It is also important to establish an environmental category of vehicles when determining the level of the toll, thus encouraging the purchase of new organic vehicles, also achieving greater use on highways through environmental protection and achieving greater competitiveness on the market. After the discussion, the Committee proposed a conclusion to the Croatian Parliament on the adoption of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Roads. And sent all the comments and suggestions to the applicant. The Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee also proposes a conclusion to the Croatian Parliament, which is to oblige the Government of the Republic of Croatia to define the issue of financing of county and local roads as quickly as possible approaches to the new Law on Public Roads. To enable county roads to be transformed into stock companies and to establish this obligation for concessionaires to develop and provide their emergency services, fire departments, or quality compensation to local self-government units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11111	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Excuse me. More European Integration Committee. Dear Representative Minica, Vice President of the House, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11112	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, at its 10th session of June 17th, the Committee on European Integration discussed the proposal for this law as an interested working body. The debate draws attention to the opinion of the Association of Cities that the proposed draft law does not fulfil obligations under local self-government with regard to taking over public roads as prescribed by the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government and the European Charter on Local Self-Government. The proposer said the issues would be resolved in the next phase of work on this law. On the basis of the debate, the Committee on European Integration has found that the proposal for this law is appropriate in line with the acquis of the European Union and fulfils the obligations set out in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11113	Thank you. Do they want any other committees? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First club representatives, that's first. Honorable representative Milivo Škvorc on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11114	Dear Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Assistant, colleagues and colleagues. Another law that requires compliance with the acquis of the European Union and is one of the conditions of accession, therefore, also our commitment to the negotiating positions, in one important chapter, which is transport policy, is that which is before us. And it's about the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Roads. The proposal for a law that is most recently before us has taken over the applicable standards in public roads, and the amendments and additions relate to the use of infrastructures for heavy freight vehicles prescribes electric toll systems and the provision of safety rules in the trans-European road network. The law regulates the legal position of public roads as a general good, the activity of construction and maintenance of public roads, the measures of their protection, the property and legal procedures implemented for road construction, public road management and the sources of financing of construction and maintenance of public roads. The changes to be highlighted which will lead to the final harmonisation of the Law on Public Roads with the acquis of the European Union are as follows. Compared to the earlier legal framework in which highways were classified as a group of state roads, this law makes the 4th group into a categorisation. The highways and state roads in the Republic of Croatia should form a unique road network and the planning of their construction should be seen together in the future so that road capacities do not become duplicated. The level of the toll will be determined according to the vehicle category price class and the distances used on the highway. Vehicle categories shall be determined according to the number of axles, dimensions, weight and type of vehicle. And the act of the competent minister determines the price class and relations between categories. The level of toll should be non-discriminatory for all vehicles owned by natural and legal persons. And it is determined in a way that the average toll is calculated according to the cost of construction, maintenance, management and development of road infrastructure. This information is obtained in a way that shows the total toll revenue over a given period of time and shares the number of miles of all vehicles that have paid the toll on a given highway. A stimulating toll payment models that go for as much as possible using highway networks as possible to disburse, especially from freight traffic of other roads including up to 13% and will be calculated according to the currently applicable tariff model. Such discounts are available to all freeway users provided that such a stimulating model does not impair the average toll. As regards these discounts, given the debate that was present on the Committee on Transport and Communications, and I was involved in it, I would ask that until the second reading be checked precisely whether there is a possibility of an increase of 13% because we are already aware that we already have some discounts that are in line with the situation here and what the chairman of the Committee has presented and, in particular, we are in Zagorje, in some way, interested in the further situation regarding the toll collection on the Zagreb-Macelj highway because we are aware that from the moment of entry into the European Union, the Republic of Croatia will have to inform the European Commission of the stimulating discounts. This bill also improves some of the solutions in the current law. One such improvement is the addition of the applicable provisions on the rights of disabled persons using a personal car based on a lease agreement, and so far we know that all those who have bought a car on Leasing despite being disabled users were not entitled to certain incentives and free driving. What requires us to agree normally in the transport policy chapter is to collect the toll in a way that will have a minimal impact on the flow of traffic, which is to us as a tourist country with a large flow of vehicles in the season of great importance. Electronic toll systems shall allow charging using at least one of the technologies on which European electronic charging is based on highways. These rules will exclude those toll collection systems that do not have European electronic charge technology, electronic systems where no equipment in the vehicle is needed and small local toll collection systems where the costs of introducing such systems would be disproportionate to the toll collection revenue. These amendments and additions to the law shall add a new article relating to the performance of the control of vehicles carrying out exceptional transport. Therefore, the transport of goods that exceed mass and dimensions and the load of permitted, permitted traffic signalling and along the Croatian highways from now on must be notified, and the controllers and other public road operators may be present. The provisions of Article 42(1) of the Law provide that advertising must not be placed on the freeway and on its safety belt in order not to endanger traffic safety. But their setting is allowed on vacations in a way that is not visible from the road. In this way, Croatia's highways and other concessionaries operating the highways will be able to achieve additional revenues intended to build and maintain highways. This proposal is also based on current practice in the Member States of the European Union. One of the Directives which condition the adoption of this law concerns compliance with the minimum safety requirements for tunnels in the trans-European road network or tunnels for more than 500 metres on highways and national roads. Croatian highways, Croatian roads and concession users are given public authority to manage tunnels and establish all special security parameters. They are obliged to regularly examine and carry out inspection of the tunnels, bring plans for emergency, training and emergency service equipment. To determine the procedures for the immediate closure of the tunnel and to be obliged for each tunnel with the prior consent of the minister to appoint one security officer who will coordinate all preventive and protective measures and all in order to ensure the maximum safety of all road users as well as workers in the tunnel, since it is known from practice that these are sometimes very risky places on highways. Since these amendments and additions will be filled in with part of the National Programme for the Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, and no specific funding in the state budget is necessary for their implementation. We propose that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Roads be adopted. The Croatian Democratic Community club will support the bill in its first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11115	Honourable representative Zvonimir Mršić on behalf of the SDP club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11116	Honorable Vice President, Honorable State Secretary, Assistant Minister, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I think that before this law is passed, we should make one decision in the Croatian Parliament or at least clear one dilemma, whether it is necessary to comply with Croatian legislation only and exclusively with European legislation and directives, or when we change the law, the law would be good to comply with Croatian legislation. We have a law here that has a P.Z.E. label that goes into two readings, which means P.Z. It can go in two readings. But this law does not fully ignore what has happened since the adoption of this law to this day here in the Croatian Parliament. And we are harmonising Croatian laws with the European acquis, but obviously we have no obligation, and we have no intention of harmonising with the laws that we have passed here in the Croatian Parliament. Because at least two laws and several laws were passed and at least those two laws had to be one on content and the other in the procedure applied in the adoption of this law. The first is the Law on ratification, the full ratification of the European Charter. He's very fresh. We remember it, we recently brought it in, and he says: “Everywhere and whenever there are laws in the Croatian Parliament relating to local self-government, local self-government must be consulted in the process of passing these laws.” This law refers to local self-government, local regional (regional) self-government. A few things in general, but also in a few things. One is, for example, damages. The second is the issue that regulates the relationship between the County Road Administrations. I'm asking the proposer. In accordance with the law we passed here a month ago where the opinion of the Association of Cities, where the opinion of the association of municipalities, where the opinion of the community is county. What do they think about that? Under the law passed by the Croatian Parliament, it is a mandatory opinion that must be attached to this law when we adopt or say what we adopt as a law does not apply to the adoption of other laws. So let's say we brought the European Charter of Locals, we ratified the European Charter of Local Self-Government, but we don't intend to apply it. We were just kidding or we're just gonna use it where it suits us. Where we don't fit, we won't. We will apply the European directives directly there. You know this European directive that we have fully adopted, because the Charter of Local Self-Government is a European acquis. We adopt it and do not apply it, but we will comply with some other laws and directives of the European Union relating to tunnels, to toll collection and I do not know what else. So, in the procedure, we completely miss, ignore. Second, content. In content we are here in the Parliament. The Croatian Parliament adopted in November 2005 an amendment to the Law on local regional (regional) self-government today and on committees said there was not enough time. So how long does it take to comply with the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government? Two terms? 16 years? 24 years? Then we had to bring there in that law when we passed, and our mouths were full of decentralisation. Then we could say, well, we're not going to apply it in the next two terms. We just wrote it down, we just wrote it down, and we brought the roads into the big cities. The large cities of their full size of authority received by this law cannot even write a capital letter, let alone apply something from it. Now, was there enough time as the ministry's representatives here assure us? It is. Is there a suggestion? There is. Then why are you ignoring yourself? Because in 2006, the Association of Cities together with experts, together with consultants, joined the ministry to analyse the state of the public roads and to produce materials that should result in a new legislative proposal. That bill was written. He exists. There are even financial calculations about what would happen if registration and toll fees were shared in one way or another. Should it be divided by a mile or divided by a load? Whether to be divided in one way or another. So there's an absolute simulation that was built in the City Association together with experts and along with the ministry. In 2007, a meeting was held at the ministry where the ministry said that when the law was brought into line with the European acquis this year, it would all be respected. So we have material, we have studies, we have analysis, but we have no political will. We have the political will to bring this law into line, because it is a alignment with the European Union. But we don't have the will to have what really quality we have prepared in the ministry, because it's been over three years now that we've been here to debate and to allow really big cities to decide something in the area of their unit of local self-government. Because there are far-reaching consequences. We were just discussing DTK sewers. You know, according to this law, and it remains unchanged the status of the right path and the collection of the right path with the basis of ownership, i.e. with the management of public good is completely different, completely other accounts are, rather than to change this law and that large cities have been given the right to rule over public roads in the field of their work, i.e. the county's right to manage in the area of their county. A completely different concept would be. So we're, maybe it's meant to get rid of DTK in one way and then go with the amendments to the Law on Roads, on public roads. There's a lot of questions here. The key question is why does the Government ignore what the Croatian Parliament has brought? Why are we prepared to ignore the laws we ourselves have passed? And why are we ready, hop, to jump whenever we're told from Brussels, you have to comply with one directive. And then when we comply with this directive, then we are not prepared to apply it here in the Croatian Parliament. Will we and when we pass this law apply it or will we treat it as we do to the law in which we ratified the European Charter of Local Self-Government? These are some questions to be answered here. The time has been, studies exist, legal text exists, discussed everything with those with whom they should, and that is why the Association of Cities and the Community of County just doesn't want to do it. It's in a meaningful sense. In essence, that is what I was talking about and when the original text of the law was passed, the Law on Public Roads does not treat or mention unclassified roads at all. What are unclassified roads in Croatia? Are you that public road? Unclassified roads are not rural roads, unclassified roads are roads managed by local self-government, so cities and municipalities, which pass through the centers of these cities. They're not mentioned here. There is no mention of their relationship with public roads, and we warned that. There's plenty of time to say what's unclassified roads. And the purpose of the Law on Local Self-Government is that unclassified roads become part of public roads and run by the county, or a large city in its area. And we're still staying in one complete interregnum, one vacuum because we have a law that's called road safety, and I report it to the unclassified. But that's why we only have the Law on Public Roads that completely ignores unclassified roads, so many miles of unclassified roads in the territory of the Republic of Croatia that were designed, built and maintained by cities. There are a whole series of questions why we finally don't have the courage to define some things about road belts, road land, ownership and traffic management? Why do we have no need to define the issue of management of the accompanying infrastructure, such as public lighting? How is it that the city has to build public lighting in one city, and in another city, Croatian roads do so? How is it that in one city, the city has to pay electricity for this public lighting, and in the other, Croatian roads pay for it? Who, or why, on the part of the road, Croatian roads will build sewers for the coastal drain, for road draining, and in another city must build a city or municipalities and where the city or municipalities, the city and municipalities pay for and supply of that water, which means its disposal and purification, and where the cities of the Croatian roads or highways pay for it or do not pay for it, drop as such in nature, uncleaned in nature or pay only for compensation to Croatian waters? These are the questions we were supposed to discuss today. Whether or not something in the acoustics was completely irrelevant and did not prevent this law from being applied so far. Okay, let's coordinate what we needed to coordinate, but we care about what life means in the rest of Croatia and in the rest of the public roads. We have a problem with the county road management because the state took care of itself. It founded Croatian highways d.o.o., Croatian roads d.o.o., but behold wonders, county road administrations are public institutions. Public institutions are not in the VAT and state system on any investment carried out by the county road administrations to knock out a cream called 22% of VAT. In this small amount of funding that the county road administrations still have, is still co-financed by the Croatian state, i.e. the central budget with 22%, and the Croatian roads have not increased the transfer for the county road administrations in the past 5 years, it remained nominally the same. It didn't even increase as a budget, it remained nominally the same to 240 million kuna. These are the questions we wanted to talk to you about. We want the same county status as other public road managers. Why can one public road manager be in the VAT system and the other cannot be in the VAT system? It's usually on all local self-government investments, you know when local self-government builds kindergartens also futra state budget with 22% VAT. The state doesn't care. She doesn't care because VAT flows from investment to consumption. Is it? So, despite this, she has established companies that are still in the VAT system, but as a stepmom, she collects a 22% staker on all road construction investments in local self-government. And these are the questions that we expected to discuss here and ask as the SDP Representatives' Club that by the end of this year as it was agreed in the ministry when the Association of Cities was promised that by the end of 2008, the full text of the law would come because this text of the law no longer corresponds to what life is in Croatia. It will be in this part of a very small, modest line with some European Union directives, but it is completely out of line with a whole series of laws that we have adopted in Croatia in the meantime. And let us decide whether when we pass a law here in Croatia, it applies to future laws, does it apply to us, to our views, and does it apply to the Government, and then to the proposals that come from the Government to this Croatian Parliament? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11117	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, Honorable Representative Željko Vincelj.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11118	Dear Vice President, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. There are amendments and additions to the Law on Public Roads ahead. Unfortunately, it is mostly in the part where we need to bring it into line with European legislation. One of the changes in the Law on Public Roads is the conduct of transporting goods in a vehicle above the permitted quantities when the burden exceeds the mass or dimensions, i.e. the axle load that we call the term excessive use of the public road. Recently, with the largely dissatisfaction of most of the opposition, we have passed the Road Safety Act, a proposer which the Ministry of Interior has proposed, and one of our remarks was that developed European countries are systematically and fully investigating all road safety factors as sources of traffic danger, so also participants, and roads, vehicles, but also the social environment of transport, so it is a majority European practice that the road safety area is regulated normally by the Ministry of Transport and not by internal affairs. Such an approach would highlight the importance of the state of Croatian roads as an extremely important factor in traffic security, not the expansion and tightening of the faulty repression of drivers. In addition, it was difficult to find any repressive or organisational measure not prescribed by the minister and the provisions of the previous law have been abolished, for example. the implementing rules in the field of technical inspection of vehicles shall be adopted by the Minister, but shall, on a proposal from the expert organisation, i.e. the Centre for Vehicles of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. In the newly passed law, the legislator, the minister in charge of home affairs, remains everywhere. That's why it was a pleasant surprise for me to see a reverse change happen once, i.e. that a resolution minister loses the right to lay down implementing rules and is also recognised as doing so, because such a way has not worked well in practice. For the purposes of Article 32(2) of the Law on Public Roads, it has been established that the criteria for the establishment of excessive use of public road, the approval procedure and the fixing of compensation for excessive use are laid down by the Minister. The article of the law is now amended and reads as follows: "Legal or natural persons in carrying out whose activities are being damaged by public road are obliged to compensate for the damage to the general rules of mandatory law." In the light of this change, it is said that, I quote: "The way the compensation for the damage to public roads was not adequate or professionally justified, and in certain cases it was ineligible." Here we would like more of these self-critical approaches, valorizing mistakes and solving problems to be based on logic and profession. In this case, however, I doubt that the legislator is instructed to abolish the category of excessive use of the public road that I repeat means the carriage of goods in the vehicle above the quantities allowed, where the load exceeds the mass or dimensions, i.e. the axle load in accordance with traffic signs on the road concerned. This law leaves only a category of damage to the public road, so I ask whether there are sufficient clear, professional, unequivocal elements in the general rule of law for legal or natural persons in the exercise of whose activity there is damage to the public road, to call on order, to account and to compensate for damages caused by public road damage. The question is not so addressed because of the highway managers built in the near past, they are built with quality materials, but it is for the state roads that are at least part of us in Zagorje in terms of the quality of rural unclassified roads, and especially for county and local roads, so those in the jurisdiction of the local community that were built several decades ago and which excessive use especially in the operation of heavy trucks breaks up to unrecognizable. This is especially familiar with the areas where highways are built, so we in Zagorje are also aware of the condition of the contractors with heavy trucks for transporting land, gravel, sand, stone and machinery, leaving them local roads. Please answer me if you can control this problem with such changes in terminology and in the interests of the local community or not. In any case, I ask you to provide clear instructions to municipalities and cities on the criteria and method of determining road damage and how they can and should respond legally to those who caused the damage and all in order for the contractors to leave us the destroyed roads, and we can't do anything to them. Because the formulation of road damage and compensation under the general rules of mandatory law is broadly subject to any interpretations and I believe that legally puts one who damages the road from the one who seeks a fair compensation for it, and many small units of local self-government do not have any lawyers, let alone such rank as to deal with large players whose vehicles and machinery destroy the weak local roads behind which is one imaginary formulation of road damage, easy prey, an easy problem. The existing Public Roads Act in Article 42 determines that no advertising is allowed on the highway and on the highway protection belt. Proposed amendments to the laws are allowed to place ads on vacations in such a way as not to endanger traffic safety. I admit I didn't know about that provision so far banning advertising in the highway protection belt that was warned 40 meters from each side of the highway. That's something I can forgive because I've never had an area of interest before, but I can't forgive the legislator and control of the law. I'm asking the Proposer. Does he know how many wrongly placed ads are in the safety belts of highways in Croatia, and is someone being punished for not implementing this legislation and will they be removed in any time from the highway safety belts? Here's to facilitate the ministry's work, on the highway on the road from Krapina to Zapresic this morning, I counted at least eight advertising boards within that belt. I personally and doubt whether there is a professional, security reason to ban advertising in the corridor 40 meters from the edge of the highway which is safe with two lanes of traffic in one direction and with a stop track, with a physical obstacle for vehicles from another direction, with a stake made of the best asphalt without holes and bumps. On such a roadway, the view of the ad does not endanger life, but it endangers it on other public roads of the state, county and local where it traffics on one wheel lane along inadequate derutin roads with bad asphalt extremely dangerous if the view turns to advertising, and on these roads there are so many that it stands in your head. Here's to the follow-up of this morning's journey on a six-mile-long subsident-Wrapce somewhere 80-jambo posters along the road literally hitting us in the rearview mirror. How many of those with, say, beautiful women's or men's models so you don't look away at such an ad, and that second in a chaotically dense traffic on bad roads can be fatal. But we don't ban them, ban those on safe highways where we should perhaps have an interest in having them, because the view of a nice interesting ad maybe saves some tired and sleepy driver's life on a long monotony road, and we're a tourist country, and we don't need to be just a means of fast getting to the sea. We want to keep the tourist in both Zagorje and Zagreb and Lica and Gorski Kotar. Isn't advertising on the highways really a good way to do that? Here, therefore, I propose to the legislator to consult with the profession, so if these arguments stand, we change the Law on Public Roads to the advertising work alongside them in a logical way from the point of view of transport security. In a written explanation of the legislator on page 2 on the amendments to the law, I noticed an interesting point of view. I quote: "The possibility of introducing toll collection is limited only to highways and road facilities on state roads and only to use public roads the highest level of service". I'm undermining these words "public roads of the highest level of service". In addition to my best will, in the text of the amendments to the law, I find a provision that will follow this thesis I failed to do so because Articles 6a and 6.b relating to to tolls determine how tolls are determined and the interoperability of the toll collection system i.e. where necessary and where no electronic toll collection systems are used. The motive for my interest based on the read formulations that tolls are limited to public roads is the fact that citizens are bitter at the collection of tolls and on the parts of highways, including tunnels that are unexpectedly converted into a common road with two wheel tracks. The fact is that, after a comfortable and fast highway ride, these occasional crossings into two belts are turned into very dangerous traffic places, especially in a monotone longer highway ride, which is not expected to be such unpleasant surprises for drivers. Such parts of the road are certainly not the highest level of service, so I believe that special discounts at the level of the toll should be established. I point out an unfortunate example for travellers from abroad on the part of the Macelj-Zagreb highway where, after crossing the border crossing, entering Croatia and a few kilometers on a four-way highway, a simple two-way road of 3.7 kilometers through two tunnels and three viaducts appears entirely unexpected and of course dangerous for drivers. You should be driving a semi-profile. But of course, you can't see that on the toll. Not to be seen but toll in Krapina-Zagorska County on the Zagreb-Macelj highway is discriminatory compared to other tolls in Croatia. In short, I will explain it because it is expected for the citizens of my county to ask why this highway is the most expensive road in Croatia, which is why concessionaries and highways are not subject to the same rules as the Rijeka-Zagreb highway or Croatian highways. Namely, on their section of highway tolls per km is from 0.35 to 0.41 kuna and on the Zagreb-Macelj highway this price is between 0.58 and 0.65 kuna. 60% more expensive than anywhere in Croatia. The average toll for all four categories of vehicles on that highway is 1.53 kn while the average price on the other highways in the Republic of Croatia is 78 lipa, i.e. for all four categories of vehicles on the highway in Zagorje is 87%. The Ministry of Transport explains that this is because the concession company independently provided loans for the construction and was independently responsible for their payment. It is that this highway was expensive, but today the cost of building one of these Hatz kilometers of other Croatian highways stands about as much as the cost of construction, and for Em's mile through Zagorje, yet our kilometre is 60% more expensive. Besides, isn't Em's highway brand-new? The Zaprešić-Zabok stock was built back in the 90s, it was already 16 years old and built in view of the average annual daily traffic of as many as 17,000 vehicles per day could already be paid. Once again, the toll has been collected for the New Year's Eve by 11%. Would that be so if that highway was in another part of Croatia? In my opinion, you wouldn't. Here, I am transferring from the Internet a brief position of Minister Calmeta for 9km of river bypasses, says the toll will not be charged on the bypass by commenting on ways to settle the expensive loan needed to build this road. We also pay kilometers of Zagreb's bypass from Zapresic to Jankomir, but let's say on the other side of Zagreb there is no charge to St Helena. Another indicator of this discriminatory relationship with the Zagorci would be found at the toll. Why is that? It's not only the government's fault, it's us, the citizens of my county, because these today's Zagori are obviously peaceful and too quiet. Croatia is the state and the Zagorci, we want us all to have the same treatment as the Zagrebers, the coasters or the Dalmatians. Why should we pay more expensive toll out of our pockets? Let the possible difference be paid to the concessionaire by the Croatian state which also has a 49% ownership stake in the concession society. It's not our citizens' fault this part of the highway worked more expensive in some other financial model. After all, this approach is not only about the money of the Zagorje citizens, it carries more human life than it does about normal tolls. Because of the too much toll, drivers from Zagorje to Zagreb go to that part of the old Zagorje highway left with them from Zabok to Zaprešić, and the number of people killed from one in 2004 came to 9 people killed in 2007. Candles, crosses and flowers in several places of the old Zagorje highway testifys. To conclude, the Croatian People's Party Club will support these amendments to the law with one huge criticism. Do we have to change only what Europe is forcing us to bring our legislation into line with it? Was it not necessary to comply with other Croatian laws, primarily the 2005 Law on Local and Regional Self-Government? Wasn't this a really good opportunity for this alignment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11119	Thank you. We have three corrections to an incorrect quote. The first is Honorable Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11120	Mr. Vincelj Željko said that when it comes to this toll, Zagorci are, as you said, the most disciplined in the Republic of Croatia. But what to say then is that the Istrians who pay 14 kuna for crossing the bridge over the Mirna length of 1.4 km. What can we say... 14 kunas, 1.4 km. And that's just the bridge you're telling me. And what do we say we pay 28 kuna for the passage through Učka tunnel for the total length of 5 thousand 236 meters? I agree, the Zagori are being discriminated against probably. But what is done to the Istrians is the humiliation of that living, it's an insult to common sense, the exploitation of a pair of exellances. And so many gentlemen not only of you, Zeljko, but also of all others, come, see what is being paid in the same and how much we pay in Istria for those 1.4km of bridges, or 5.2 kilometers that Tito has yet built.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11121	Mr. Representative, your time is up. I'd like to ask the honourable MPs, I'd ask the honourable MPs, first of all, not to get out of the bench, and secondly, it's been noticed that we just don't stick to the time. Please, time is prescribed and do not enter, that titre red light. So please hold on to that. The second correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative of Milivo Škvortz.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11122	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, I am correcting the incorrect allegations, unfortunately my colleague Vincelj, cannot accept the conclusion that the Zagorjes are being discriminated against in the Republic of Croatia. That, he also made a lot of facts, but he would remind him to prepare a concession contract, all about the contract, conditions of road use, the formation of that company, all done again, I don't like to mention the former government, but that's the case, and the minister was Mr. Cacic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11123	Thank you. And distinguished representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11124	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, here's about the same correction as Mr. Cain's. Namely, our mayors, therefore, the citizens of County and the surrounding area, will be asked how long this district of County will pay so expensive a toll to Zagreb or when they travel west to the road which is almost the oldest, so the oldest highway in the Republic of Croatia, built in the country, therefore, the one before the country largely to Slavonski Brod by '91. the year and beyond which, after 30 years, the use took a good part of what was invested in the toll. There you go, Mr. Vincey.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11125	Thank you. That's why we're canceling the morning session. Continuation is at 3:00. The first will be Commissioner Damir Cain, on behalf of the IDS club. Thank you very much. We continue with the session and the club debate. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11127	... determines also the level of the toll, and here it is literally determined as I say here, quoting the law: "the price class for categories of vehicle and the distance the vehicle uses on the highway and the toll road facility". [[The speaker was subsequently turned on.]] Therefore, according to the category of vehicle that is determined according to the number of axles and or dimensions, and or weight, and or the type of vehicle indicated in the vehicle's booklet, then it is further said "the act of the minister by which it is determined in the price class and the relationship between the categories" and then said "the principle of non-discrimination". I would like to stress this non-discrimination specifically for all categories of vehicles owned by all legal and physical persons who are users of highways and road facilities with toll collection. Then it is further said: "the calculated average toll" and I underline that it is proportionate to the costs of building, maintaining, managing and developing infrastructure and is shown as the total revenue from tolls over a certain period of time divided by the number of miles of all vehicles that have paid tolls on a particular highway network." There is a finished quote, although this article 6a has a number of other interesting moments. However, if so, and it should be so because this law bears the mark of P.Z.E. No. 94 Then why have you been on one of the most ground floored for years, not to say in one of the most miserable ways in the true sense of that word, robbing the people of Istria County using Učka tunnel and using this bridge through Mirna. Here's yesterday and one or five hundred or thousand times so far I've come from Buzet here to Zagreb, I paid 28 kuna for the tunnel. Keep in mind that only through this Učka tunnel, keep in mind that this tunnel has five thousand and two hundred and six meters, and a half-way from Rijeka to Zagreb, which has about 160 kilometers from those 160 kilometers from the brother's brother has 120 kilometers of highways, ten kilometers of tunnels, ten kilometers of bridges. Now I was driving along the newly built part of the road from Fužin towards Delnice or Skrad and that toll or that's where I paid 56 kuna. And now the question is, what's the logic? Why is it that one tunnel that counts 5 thousand 236 meters of Istrians and those who use it have to pay 28 kuna, and that 160 kilometers, we all pay 56 kuna. It means why in Istria we have to pay 15 or 20 times more per km of tunnel than that tunnel and bridge or toll on the highway from Rijeka to Zagreb. I can rightly set up or exclaim why is it so humiliating that I don't say a robbery to the Istrians? Someone will say that everyone else who uses the tunnel this Učka is being robbed or exploited in the same way. It's true. However, All these others maybe in a year [[/Employed: Your Honor, Your Honor.]] one [[/Employed: Dear Representative.]] Here you go, Mr. Vice President. [[/Employed: Dear Representative.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11128	So I think we still need to adjust the dictionary place and moment I think if someone robs, let them if someone robs [[Intruder: Yes, but I every time]] Appreciation [[When I pass through that tunnel, I pay 28 kuna.]] If, Your Honor, one moment. [[And easy for me.]] If someone robs it, it's a felony. We should report it then. Please choose your dates anyway. [[Then how do I put it? Otter, how about that?]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11129	Come on, then I'll use the word away. But what was I gonna say? Exteriors in two-thirds of cases pay that fee and all others may be in one-third of the cases that come there. So this kidnapping that's happening up on the Ucka tunnel, which I said was built before by the former Yugoslavia, but now I have to make amends, and it has provided funds with one other kidnapping, in a way that all Istrians had to single out one and two salaries for that tunnel, and many in Croatia had to single out one or two diaries for that tunnel. But I repeat, the Istrians had to set aside for that tunnel one or two means of pay so that today they would come into a situation where we would pay 10 or 15 or 20 times more per mile than anywhere else in the Republic of Croatia. Of course. That's not all, either. There's another dare to say far greater kidnapping than this one on the Ucka tunnel and that's the bridge that the Istrians must pay on the Mirna Bridge. The crossing across that bridge, which totals about 1400 meters, is charged with 14 kuna. 14 kuna. And then I'm really asking myself a question, but why do these spaces or those people who use those shares, say, not matter now whether they're domestically tied to Istria or coming to Istria from other parts of Croatia or abroad, so in one way they're being humiliated? I simply say there is no place in Croatia, no matter how many other MPs think that there has been a greater injustice against their premises. I don't think that that's how citizens of those areas need to be humiliated. When islanders, for example, come from Krka to Rijeka, they understandably do not pay even kuna fees to cross the bridge and I think that's okay. That's how it has to be. But I ask myself why people in Istria when they pass that bridge of Mirna pay 14 kunas a mile and 400 meters as far as that bridge is, because they can't call it a bridge. They tell us so because you have alternative directions. What alternative directions do we have? Through Novigrad, or through Buzet. It's absurd. I claim that this is an exaggeration for 1.4 km of bridge to pay 14 kuna, i.e. it is also an exaggeration to pay for the tunnel through Učka 28 kn when our highway is from Rijeka to Zagreb with as I said 10 km of tunnels, 10 km of bridges do not know 120 km of highway in full profile 58 kuna. It's just not the way you should behave. In life, there should be measures in everything. The measures should be taken up to the toll and to the tunnel and to the bridge. The measure should also have around the collection of energy and gasoline and food and wages. But I agree with the Vice-President of the Parliament and when it comes out of this box and when it comes to terms or terms. However, why the price of the tunnel for the tunnel that was put into circulation seems to me to be 28 kuna in the '80s, and I repeat for 160 km of highway from Rijeka to Zagreb 56 kuna. Why is that? Well, that's because that's what this is all about, that's what it's all about. Concessions are I dare say as well as a public-private partnership I'm afraid of a big delusion. That's what the French are building for us. But the concession fee we pay is over that bridge which is absurdly expensive, via the tunnel, or from, we make up the price from the state budget or through state support. If we had built that part of the highway in Istria ourselves, which we need, because Istrian tourism is about 40% of Croatian tourism. I claim that the road would stand twice as much as it stands. And that's true, and no one can deny me. Is it not a shame, for example, that the road was built again from the company “Bujika” from Vodnjan to Pula and that it was not immediately built as a highway and that it is now moving into the adaptation of the same and that it will de facto collapse what was released a year or two days ago? Is it not a shame that all those who use it in the right sense call it “the road of death. ” What I'm trying to say is that's what I'm gonna say. In Croatia, only one criminal application has been filed, and this law also speaks of it because of the lack of road maintenance. And again, for example, that criminal application was filed clearly by the State's Attorney's Office in Pula. They're autonomous, it's not to be entered, against Mr. Anzure, who may be the last to be prosecuted. And I want to do that again, especially by apostrophe. Will anyone in Croatia be responsible for not maintaining the roads? Probably not, but there was one such case a few months ago in Istria. But come on, if that's an example that we're going down that road, to introduce a little order once, because it's absurd that in 90% of the cases, it's always just drivers or 100%, and never those who should keep the road. What I especially want to say hello is this article 6b. on page 5 of this Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Roads, where it is said that Croatia highways d.o.o. or the beneficiary of the concession is obliged to conclude a contract with other operators in the European Union and within the Republic of Croatia, or otherwise to ensure that the user, the client of the European, electronic toll collection, can benefit from that service in all Member States of the European Union. I think that's very good, but now we come to another story, and that story concerns Slovenian wines. All of us who went to the matches between Croatia and Austria in Vienna or Klagenfurt paid our vignette in 10 days with 7 and a half euros and I don't think there's any better stuff. That's cheap. There's no waiting in front of the checkout houses. Everything's going fast, etc. However, I would like to ask the question of how we react to the fact that we will be of 1.7. To pass through Slovenia, the Slovenian state must pay a half-monthly, i.e. half-yearly, 35 and 55 euros respectively. And it's also one hijacker, so I don't use each other's words that are far more difficult. I don't know what the case is in other parts of the Republic of Croatia that are gravitating towards Slovenia or across Slovenia towards the west, but let's say someone who twice from one Buzet has to go to Trieste every year because he uses 2 km of bypasses around Copra, where there are no checkouts will have to pay 35 or 55 euros. And we just keep our mouths shut. I advocate Croatia to be the best neighbour of Slovenia. But if they're playing with us that way, then I think we should sort of respond to some vines under quotes to holiday houses or something. Not to mention that absolutely nothing is being built when it comes to roads or access roads towards the Republic of Croatia, whether it is Istria, the Primorje-Gorski County, I suppose it is also the Carlova County, etc. etc. So for the end, I ask everyone to question these tolls, bridges in Istria. Please do not use vinjets for Istrians who go to Škofi, to intervene towards the Republic of Slovenia and also to open a border crossing which they have closed without reason. If someone is for good Croatian-Slovenian relations, then it is me, but to be humiliated in one way, it is also necessary to tell them openly that in some ways it should not be for ordinary citizens but for this hypocritical government under quotes to return. As for article 58 on page 31 and 62, on page 32, what I think should be spoken here too, I ask that shipowners do not pay toll at the price of gasoline but to treat them the same as fishermen, i.e. to allow them blue diesel. Consider that fact, and their demands, go out and meet those people. However, the funds for the county roads, etc. are equally important. The county budgets are miserable, but if we want to travel to future cities, then we're going to have to approach the decentralisation of this country. What would certainly not cost Croatia much would at least be for boaters in the meantime to go out with one benefit, so that these people, like the gas fishermen they use, pay without toll. So, according to the principles of blue diesel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11130	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Petar Mlinarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11131	Mr. Vice President, I'm correcting the incorrect assumption that a robbery in Istria, that someone constantly damaged Istria. Istria is indeed one of the priorities of the Croatian government where the Croatian government has invested heavily. We didn't get a quarter in Slavonia, but we're satisfied, the government has as much investment as it does that, I would remind Mr. Caine that there are still grenades from the roads in Vukovar, that we can't do it all at once, but the government invests in Vukovar 40 million each year, which in the economy and therefore we can't say that Istria is neglected when it comes to tunnels, infrastructure, highways, bypasses. So Mr. Cain denied himself that the government is not investing, not taking care of Istria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11132	Thank you. The next in the debate is the esteemed representative Stanko Grcic, the HSS club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11133	Honorable Vice President, distinguished State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. So I'm going to try to say a few sentences on behalf of those citizens who don't have a chance to pay as much as we've heard these big and high roads today, and they've been building tunnels and highways and still driving on the Macadamian state roads. Therefore, they do not say that they are both discriminated against and neglected. But here, I would like to comment on and present the views of the HSS Club on the proposed amendments and additions to this law. The harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union shows that our work and continuing obligation are on the way to the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. The debate and adoption of this law are further harmonising our legislation with the acquiss of the European Union in a part that is not in conformity or not fully in line as the Proposer tells us. It is apparent that the coordination relates to the use of infrastructures for heavy cargo vehicles and the interoperability of electronic toll collection systems and other safety requirements. With these changes, we coordinate these three areas, which we at the HSS Club support and consider good because we will coordinate and resolve the problems of the toll collection system, we will coordinate the security requirement for tunnels in which security officers will be appointed in the tunnels. I also support the proposed changes in Article 3 which are welcome because a stimulating model is being introduced that allows for discounts in toll charges and up to 13%, and we at the HSS Club suggest that the possibility and increase of this stimulating model be considered by the second reading. We believe that this stimulating model should continue to develop and provide special benefits for heavy freight transport, i.e. trucks and buses, because this would shift traffic to highways and avoid routes such as the Podravska highway and some other directions, which would increase traffic safety and what is more important for us at local level, to protect the county or local roads in some way. It is not negligible, however, either, to the fact and to reduce the emissions of harmful gases in populated areas and thus to make a significant contribution to environmental protection. The existing law regulates construction, maintenance of concessions, management and financing as well as public road surveillance. The roads are classified by categories and according to this categorisation, obligations are shared for maintenance and construction of certain categories of road. And now we're actually coming up with significant obligations according to this categorization, but also certain problematic situations. The transport development strategy has established the objectives and long-term development of public roads and certain basic criteria for the construction of county and local roads. And since we all know that public road, generally well of particular interest for the Republic of Croatia, we believe that despite good suggestions to adapt the property of the European Union we must point out that the state of our local and county roads is now an opportunity for this because in this, because public roads are clearly mentioned here and are mentioned in the existing law as public roads of the county and local ones. We must point to the fact that the state of local and county roads is worrying and the fact is that certain asphalt roads are turning into macadam roads. More specifically, these categories of roads in certain parts of our counties, such as the County of Bjelovar-Bilogorska, are almost impenetrable, and even the state roads are in poor condition, especially those on which the transportation of materials to build a bypass or a certain route of highway was carried out. These routes of state roads have not been restored to their original condition, let alone that they have been further renewed according to promises. It is necessary to build highways, tunnels and bridges, but we must not forget, and we must from the state level in the system of funding sources to build and maintain local and county roads by offering new solutions on enhanced maintenance of local and county roads. This means that certain interventions should be considered in Articles 62 to 66 of the existing law. What I'm also trying to say is that a large number of our citizens would be happy to pay this high toll we've often mentioned here today, but there's simply no chance. There's no way to drive those roads, and they're still driving on the macadam roads. And I'll also mention a state-run route. It's the Chazma-Garesnica that's still a macadam road. I wish the tunnel was over Moslavina Mountain and we had as much toll as our citizens in Istria pay for the tunnel across Učka. I remind and suggest that life takes place right along this road, on these roads travels to kindergartens, schools, homes of health and jobs. These citizens who live in these parts along these roads, finance construction and mentioned highways and tunnels, while at the same time the roads outside their homes are difficult to pass. We will have to consider introducing additional sources of revenue for the given category of roads, given their poor condition. We believe that it is better to think about these problems as soon as possible and the amendments to the laws to try to find solutions to the source of funding because each day waiting means more problems and worse road conditions, and thus the greater dissatisfaction of our citizens. I also point out the uncertainty over the unclassified roads that we think we should solve. The HSS Club supports the proposed changes and complements and offered solutions and suggests that the legislator consider the possibility of additional sources for financing and building and enhanced maintenance of local and county roads until the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11134	Thank you. I shall inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). Rules of Procedure, timed out for a 10-minute hearing at 15.23 hours. We're moving on with the club debate. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Honorary Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11135	Dear Mr. Vice President, State Secretary and Ministry Representatives, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. Here I have had the opportunity to listen to previous speakers, club representatives, and I can say that it is quite summed up in these statements, but there is something that I have to point out and what has not been said yet, which is that according to the data I have collected from both the Internet and other sources of information, there are 163 state roads in Croatia in the length of 7 thousand and 423 kilometers. I was of little value, so I summed up some kilometers and some relations, so I saw that in these state roads in the five Slavonian counties, i.e. that mileage for five Slavonian counties is just over 800 kilometers. So 7 thousand 423 kilometers in the state of Croatia, some over 800 kilometers in an area that covers 21% of the territory of the Republic of Croatia or over 20% of the population of the Republic of Croatia, which is slightly more than 10%. Now, since this bill clearly states that it also refers to the legal position of public roads, the classification of public roads, planning, construction, reconstruction and maintenance of public roads, this is why I pointed out this. So, when colleagues here from Istria talk about how toll, tunnel, viaductarina and all the other "arinas" are expensive for the citizens of Istria, then I believe them. However, I have to point out the position to say two of the easternest or three counties in Croatia, so in Slavonia, which have the lowest gross social product in the Republic of Croatia and the highest unemployment rates in the Republic of Croatia, and they have to be used by ten traffic corridors to get to the metropolis, to get to the Adriatic coast, to get to Istria, and if we look at the economy of those regions, then I am talking to a gentleman from Župa, he told me that these are areas that are larger than specific areas of public concern, but in any case investors who would clearly drive goods towards the west, therefore, have quite great costs that are counted in thousands of euros when it comes tollin. Therefore, such an investor that would clearly help both the development of the economy and the overall total of this end of our Slavonia clearly accounts for this item that is quite and very high. When we talk about vinjets introduced by Slovenians, then I am about to say once what the beans say, and Popup and on the basis of reciprocity we will reciprocate with the same measure. If Slavonians can't get vinjets at some preferential, reduced prices, then there are no Slavonian vinjets but we can introduce Slovenian vignettes, or reciprocally compared to their illogical, non-supervisory provisions that are right in the season of tourism, in the summer season they buy a hack compared to tourists who come to Croatia because they would also be part of a cake that actually belongs to the Republic of Croatia and its tourism and our economy. And we talked about it, and I'm also talking about our region that I was talking about, so these three, the 5th electoral unit of these three counties that I come from, and I have to say that in Djeletovci, in Vukovar-Srijem County, oil is being exploited. Oil is exploited which, as said somewhere yesterday, has the same price treatment, so $30 per barrel exploitation or as they like to say it in barrels, and not in hectolitres and some other measures, $ 130 is the final product. That's our oil. It's Croatian oil. It's Slavonic to say oil. But what do people in the area where it's exploited actually have? I also have to say when it comes to the price of the highways that we use, I have to say that I said in one correction of the incorrect quote, corridor 10, which has been made even during that country to say Yugoslavia, SFRY and has been killing tolls for 30 years. It is the only road that was built at that time along the Zagreb-Karlovac road as far as I know, it was built and later continued from Broda, Županje to Lipovac. I must say to Lipovac, stress this to Lipovac, because I pray here from the pay phone, the Croatian highway that once again corrects the injustice that is done to the end when, if it is made by agreement with the Republic of Serbia, the border crossing is called Bajakovo. I have an appeal from the citizens of Lipovac and the surrounding villages, which is only a kilometer away from the border crossing for Serbia, to make sure that Croatia corrects the injustice once, that the border crossing towards Vojvodina, Srijem, is called the Lipovac border crossing, not Bajakovo's as someone else imposed it or wanted to impose it because it does not actually exist. It's some meadows, woods, etc. The village first to arrive when the border from Srijema in Croatia is Lipovac. So I ask the Secretary of State to respect this. So when we talk about that road being built for Yugoslavia, then I have to say that the cost of building that road and that road where the biggest hill, I suppose, cost a lot, was less than any other road. But Slavons pay their toll neatly towards Zagreb, towards the sea, etc. And when they pay that toll, it's just one of the kinds that finance public roads, construction, maintenance, then I have to say that Croatia is one, I think even one rarity, rare in the way of public road financing. In fact, several times we pay for funding, on several occasions a year and pay for public road financing. And here we have mentioned in Article 62 on page 32 of the funding of public roads, which is the annual fee for the use of public roads paid for when registering a vehicle. If you have two, you pay two. Furthermore, the toll you pay every time you pass the highway and the resources of the state budget, the county and the budget of the City of Zagreb and what is most important, the compensation for the financing of the construction that goes from the price of a litre of fuel. That fee goes into the price of a liter of fuel. Still get on it then, calemi VAT. So it was not formed after a liter of fuel was included in the VAT, but that fee was still paid to 22% of the VAT. If someone proves to me that's how it is in Germany, Sweden, America, then fine, but I don't think so. So just when we talk about that, here's the price already is 10 kuna liters of fuel, I expect this network of roads, public roads in our region, in Slavonia and Baranja will suddenly improve because here when we take this fee we will suddenly get a bigger amount of money. If the INA opens up stores or petrol stations that will be called all 12 kunas, there will be even more money in the budget of the Republic of Croatia and then we will be able to build roads, finally and fix both in Slavonia and in Zagorje of Mr Vincelj and elsewhere. At least some benefit from that increase in fuel prices because the larger mass of funds will enter as a source of financing for construction or reconstruction or reconstruction of public roads. And we expect it, we keep expecting it. If we are already paying such an expensive price of fuel, including our fuel that is exploited in Djeletovci and elsewhere in Croatia, which makes up 25% of the total oil imported into Croatia, then we expect a quick recovery or reconstruction and construction of our public roads, to become the right small Switzerland at the quality of our roads, especially in Slavonia where I say that, where the pumpkin is the biggest hill. When I was talking about this law, then I say at the very beginning it's about sorting roads. And I have to say, in my own place, where I come from, there are roads around here that are county roads, and they're still what they're called macadamic, which are white roads. I can tell you the relationship if you want, Mr. Secretary of State. And nobody's worried about it for decades because it's 18 years since the formation of the Croatian state, that in the area of Brod-Posavina County you have white roads and with the sign "Z" so county roads that are cared about by who, ŽUC or County Road Administration. And when we talk about those who take care of the roads of the state, public, county then we have Croatian highways that are in charge of highways and we have Croatian roads which are part of my way to say that sovereignty or responsibility, jurisdiction, part refers to assistance to Croatian highways and part of the county road administrations that are companies, as Mršić said and who pay neat VAT. When we talk about Croatian roads and ZUCs then I think that, I don't know if it's arrived, I heard that, that there is a reclassification of roads in the Republic of Croatia. And we expect some debate soon, because that we parliamentary representatives know that the roads are sorted by these very standards, which are written here on highways, state roads, county roads, local and non-classified roads, and it is clear that the county road administrations can hardly cope with the funds allocated to them annually, that is 240 million kuna and that does not change regardless of the inflation that exists in the Republic of Croatia, and that is what stops development, partially inhibits the development of local roads and roads in the counties. There's something else I wanted to say. By building the dalmatin, I have to say that because my citizens told me to say it, by building the dalmatin, the road that was that old road that they say over Karlovac-Plitvice-Slunja-Korenica-Udbina-Grac has become a state road. At the same time, by building the road of the 10th corridor for the Zagreb-Lipovac highway, that road that went through Okucan, Nova Gradiška, Stari Petrovovo village, Kapela, Slavonski Brod became a county road. What's the difference? Why is that? Why did one become a county road and the other is declared a state road? After the highway was built. And there's a kind of discrimination on this region. Now let's imagine a little bit. Why this has become a state road and is taken care of by the state with all its budgets, and a road parallel to the 10th corridor highway, it is a county road. Just a little material to think about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11136	Thank you. On behalf of the motionary, State Secretary Zdravko Livaković, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11137	Honorable MPs. Here I would try to answer some of the allegations from this exhibit, it's very hard to get all this together, to give the answer a lot of those terms mixed up, but I'm going to try to unite you somehow. First of all, the technical station of the Croatian roads Osijek, which also covers the area of Vukovar-Srijem County and a small part of Virovitica, is true that it is 800 kilometers, but it is only those two counties, plus a small piece, away from the total Slavonia, so I would like to deny it immediately. Otherwise, about all other technical stations of the Croatian Roads have about 400km of state roads under their authority. And we are working to divide the jurisdiction of this County Road Administration by establishing a new Vukovar-Srijem County facility, so that this level of 400km of state roads is somehow evenly distributed. The County Road Administrations are not commercial companies, but they are probably the mustache concepts of the County Road Administration with the companies of capital that were founded, so are they, and they are those who have multi-year contracts by the County Road Administrations for maintenance, which state, which county, which local roads. Unclassified roads are subject to the Law on the municipal economy, so that the categorization of the roads you talked about, that is, it refers to public roads, and not the classified roads are within the jurisdiction of municipalities and cities. In a balanced investment I think that Slavonia herself, I would say preferred, not underestimated, because if we remember the highway of Županja-Lipovac, 100 million euros, was created by the middle-djakovo section, close to 2 billion kuna. There are now shares from Djakova to Osijek, which is also the order of 2 billion kunas. The western bypass of Osijek was made as a new road towards the mountain of Baranja, 350 million kuna and a series of other procedures on the programme "Betterment". And as for this categorization related to the "Dalmatin" so-called state road No.1, it seems to me that Igor has always been categorized as a state road, and the road leading from the Middles across Djakov to Osijek is now state-owned and will remain state-owned. Therefore, we see no discrimination between one part of Croatia and the other. And I think that, in addition to that, the highway towards Slavonia is not knowing how many years but in the drive, unlike other parts of Croatia, and our interest is to connect quality to all parts of our country. Here, I think I've been able to deny it, that feeling that Slavonia as such is being ignored in the program of building Croatian roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11138	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11139	It is an incorrect assumption that in the past, to say to the mandate the built road to Župa, but only the road was built, the Middle-Djakovo highway in the length of 21km. ... At the same time, only a little while, at the same time in the pre-election campaign, the prime minister said that in Croatia, 443km of highways were made in the last term, 21km of them in Slavonia. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And that's what I use as a quote. I apologize for the public institution of County Road, I was wrong to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11140	Thank you. You only missed the construction of the County-Lipovac highway in the last term, it was also built, so that part was also built. We're moving on to an individual debate and he's the first respected representative of Gary Cappelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11141	Dear Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on Public Roads in the first reading. Therefore, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Roads is a regulation whose adoption and adoption is a further harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union. In a part that is not yet in conformity or not fully harmonised, which relates to the use of infrastructure for heavy cargo vehicles, the interoperability of electric toll collection systems, and to the minimum safety requirements in the trans-European road network. The national programme of the Republic of Croatia to join the European Union and the plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legal acquis of the European Union for 2008. Amendments and additions of the Law on Public Roads are foreseen to bring them into line with it. Not to repeat myself, I'm going to look back at the 2004 directive, April 29th, more specifically, on the lowest security requirements for tunnels in the trans-European road network. This proposal will identify the lowest. a minimum security requirement for tunnels in a trans-European road network, i.e. for tunnels longer than 500 metres, on highways and on state roads. Second, entities shall be designated to manage and establish safety parameters in tunnels based on public authority. And a legal framework is put in place for the appointment of what is new, security officer, for every tunnel that will coordinate all preventive and protective measures in order to ensure the maximum safety of all road users. When we talk about security and the directive of 29 April 2004, it came about, among other things, because the tests of the security conditions in the tunnels began back in '99. A year after the big accidents in the Mont Blanc and Turn tunnels, there were over 50 dead. The survey covers only tunnels longer than a thousand metres, and since 2005 it has been organised by the EUROTAP consortium. Croatia took part for the first time in 2004 with Učka and Tuhobic tunnels, which received pretty bad grades. A year later, "Javor's Hair" and "Plasina" were examined, which took third place. In 2006, the "Little Chapel" and "Gritch" which took second place was tested, and last year the "Brinje" tunnel was declared the best European tunnel. There are 12 tunnels more than a thousand metres in Croatia. The Brinje tunnel won first place among the 51 tunnels involved in a European safe tunnel programme in Europe. In 2007, Croatian highways received the International Autoclubs for the Brinje Tunnel Award on the Zagreb-Split highway in Brussels. The tunnel was declared the safest tunnel in Europe. Brinje won first place among the 51 tunnels involved in the safe tunnels programme in Europe. Of the 51 tunnels of a minimum length of 1000 meters in 13 countries, 18 tunnels were rated very good, 11 good, 12 acceptable. And at 10:00, it didn't even pass the test. Croatia is the only country outside the European Union in which the testing was carried out. The crucial for the best rating of the Brinje tunnel was technological equipment that guarantees very high passenger safety in the event of an accident or fire in synergy with highly trained operators and prescribed treatment and tunnel management protocols. This success of Brinja and Croatian highway tunnels contributes to tourism in Croatia because they send a message to all tourists, drivers about the safety of travel to Croatian highways. The European "safe tunnel" programme warns that poor security assessments are also pulling emergency repairs, as well as removing shortcomings. The case of the San Juan tunnel in Spain was cited as the worst tunnel in Europe. The Great Gložac tunnel located on the A6 River-Zagreb highway near Vrbovska knot is one of the four best European tunnels in 2008. According to research into the safety conditions of road traffic in the tunnels... As part of this year, 31 of 11 European countries were examined, this tunnel received the best possible rating as very good, with the same number of positive estimates as the German tunnel. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This continues with the tradition that Croatian tunnels are at the very top of the research presented in April of this year in the premises of the Croatian Autoclub. The positive sides of the Croatian tunnel are cited cross-link between the two pipes that are additional exits for emergency and rescue, evacating light and all that Europe today requires and these laws. If we are in the coordination phase, it is evidence that we will accept and one of the most important are the minimum security requirements for tunnels that appear in Articles 45 a, b, c, d, and so on, which apply, therefore, to 500 m tunnels on highways and state roads. Public powers and duties of entities are prescribed, Croatian highways, Croatian roads d.o.o. and the beneficiary of the concession is given public authority in this Article 45b for the management of tunnels and for the establishment of all security parameters in tunnels as well as for the taking of all necessary actions to meet minimum security requirements for tunnels. Croatian highways d.o.o., Croatian roads and concession users will be authorised at any time to prohibit, even completely shut down tunnels or limit the traffic in the tunnel if safety requirements for traffic are not met and the conditions under which traffic can be re-established or the tunnel opened. That's where I would refer to something I've pointed out in, on the Committee on Transport, and that's the responsibility in the event of an accident. As mayor and speaking with our colleagues, we also came up with some conversations regarding the use of fire and emergency medical services. We also heard from Minister Milinovic that additional funds are being allocated from the Ministry of Health for Emergency Medical Assistance, which will be additionally on the highways this summer to speed up, or facilitate and give quality help on highways in case of an accident. So I asked that question, and it will in some ways remain as a question of the obligation of a potential concessionaire to develop that service, meaning the service of fire and emergency services. Because I believe that one part of the means, whether of the toll, of the charge, means toll, or of something else, to try to be realised if some other regulations are intended to think about it because otherwise they use funds and firepower and emergency assistance from local or regional self-government units. So, the fire department, especially which is under the authority of, say, the city or municipality, the roots closest to that moment, is also in the case of accidents. Therefore, I think that it should be developed and seen that these specific funds are being allocated and that there is potential development, development and a particular service or part of it that will develop in this way, and not possibly use emergency and fire departments from local, i.e.. regional self-government. Also, on the basis of the proposal of Article 45 of the Law, entities such as Croatian roads, highways and concession users say they are obliged for each tunnel, with the prior consent of the Secretary-General, to appoint one, this newspaper, a security officer who will coordinate all preventive and protective measures to ensure the maximum safety of all road users and the staff of the tunnel. In the case of exceptional accidents in Article 45d, it is also said that this proposal to supplement the law is regulated in that article as well as in all obligations and duties arising in an emergency or in the event of an accident. Therefore, these Articles 45 a, b, c, d and e are in line with the 2004 Directive. The European Community of 29 April on the minimum safety requirements for tunnels in the trans-European road network. Croatian highways d.o.o., Croatian roads as well as the beneficiary of the concession are given public authority to manage tunnels and establish all security conditions in tunnels as well as to take all necessary actions to meet minimum security requirements for tunnels. The security officer in the tunnel and the inspection and the competent emergency services shall be established in case of an emergency or a tunnel accident. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11142	Thank you. Honorable representative Krešimir Gulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11143	Dear Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here is the adoption of the Transport Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia, which was adopted by this High House in 1999, established the basis for public road management policy in the Republic of Croatia. The public road development strategy in the Republic of Croatia has been implemented through the government's four-year programme. The development of the road network in the Republic of Croatia has made great progress through the implementation so far and the most significant level of road integration has been achieved through the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia, as a prerequisite for the even development of the Republic of Croatia, as well as for the integration of the Republic of Croatia into the road corridors of Europe. With the new categorization of the establishment of a single network of state roads whose construction should continue with the construction of fast roads, and roads around cities, and to invest significant resources in maintaining and improving the state of existing networks of state roads. For the daily life of citizens in the Republic of Croatia is a very important segment of local and county roads that are under the authority of the county road administrations that are at the level of Croatia, what has to be said is in a very poor state. The County Road Administrations, based on existing revenues, cannot bring into an acceptable state of mind the network of county and local roads and should consider more additional sources of financing of the County Road Administrations by establishing stable sources of funding and should also consider developing a public road development strategy in the Republic of Croatia as a separate document. The secretary of state doesn't listen to me, but... They're listening, yeah. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For the economy of each county as well as for any further development of the economy, good road infrastructure is one of the most important factors and preconditions. The roads are a physical medium for the transport of goods, passengers and the condition of the same depends on the type and quality of the transport that causes, which directly affects the economy and the economy of the place. Activities in the road sector unite as we know the private and public sectors, various types of economic facilities, entities, from individual and construction companies to businesses and suppliers of machinery and equipment, manufacturers of construction materials, automotive industry, transport and everything else. Thus, the road sector affects not only the economy but also the overall development of each county, city or municipality. In my debate, I will refer to the state of the county and local roads, and especially the situation in Zagreb County from which I come. A special, specific position of Zagreb County which makes its spatial shape an open ring around the city of Zagreb the road sector has the most emphasis. We all know that everyone who comes to Zagreb from any part of the Republic of Croatia must pass through Zagreb County because here is the city ring Zagreb and everyone uses it in some way and the county road. Some and highways. The city of Zagreb, as well as the marked concentration of economic activities in its communications with the world, is performing its activities in road transport through Zagreb County. Further dispersion of economic activity around Zagreb directly affects the territory of Zagreb County for which one of the fundamental assumptions is good road communication with the city and with other parts of Croatia and the world. Good road infrastructure is a further fundamental prerequisite for exploiting all the resources of Zagreb County where agriculture, crafts and tourism are one of the most important and which require fast, quality, cheap road traffic. This importance of roads requires special care from the social community because they represent a strong, public good of particular social interest. I must thank the Ministry here that it has included the old Karlovac, old Zagorska, that they have entered the state roads and I think that in Zagreb County it must have been much easier to maintain all these county roads. What I must say anyway I come here from Zagreb County from the municipality which has established a 200 hectares zone and the same is the area of Zaprešić... 100 acres. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's about 300 acres, 3 million business spaces, and we've been asking to get a new node of Zaprešić-Bistra where the charging houses are now so that this area can be brought back to life and that it's certainly faster communication and easier. Unfortunately, we have one problem that road AZM means Zagreb-Macelj in concession. We know that the concessionist at the 28-year-old company Strabak... It was only 8 years and the worst that could have happened to us that Mr. Cacic, who is both the mayor and Zagorac, did this to us Zagorci that, unfortunately, we can't solve it now, because I went a little bit to read the law and write the connection and exit to the public road, says that this means the third sentence: "trader society... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The administrative body of the city, which manages the public road, issues the conditions." [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then there is paragraph 4: “Connection and approach to the public road is allowed, issued only with the consent of the company... i.e. administrative." [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it doesn't say anywhere that we can handle it. So a concessionist who owns 51% of the concession on that road if he has no interest and I doubt he has it he doesn't have to solve it. I think you should think about putting it somewhere in the law and putting what's with road connections, highways that are in concession or are under concession. Mr. Mršić said, I must say there are some unclassified roads passing through the city. I think we all know that's not true because in my municipality, all the main roads are county roads and local roads. Those unclassified are maybe streets so I think if it's not in the municipalities then it's certainly not in the cities. As far as Zagreb County is concerned, I must say some data from Zagreb County County County County Road Management Zagreb County has 1550 kilometers of county and local roads. The observed state from 2007 is evident that 23% means 356km of roads in good condition. That 63% or 976 kilometers requires regular extraordinary maintenance. 14%, about 200 miles or so, needs reconstruction. The average annual daily traffic on the measured road is 4 and a half thousand vehicles per day, which is three times the average of the Republic of Croatia, which is about a thousand 500 vehicles per day. This is the consequence of the surroundings of Zagreb County and the ring because we are the ring around the city of Zagreb. And the revenues of the County Road Administration are 65 million kuna. From the fee for roads is 10 million kuna and from Croatian roads that are also obtained from those 60 pieces of fuel, which is 75 million kuna per year, which is not enough in any case. The County Road Administration of Zagreb County has 48 thousand kuna per km square and Croatian roads on state roads have 350 thousand kuna per km square year which is not in line with road maintenance standards compared to county and local roads. Here are some analyses to put the County Roads in Zagreb County in one good order, that, if they were good, they should certainly provide some 750 million kunas. So far, some 500 million kuna has been invested over the last seven years, which is for every commendation, but here we should, we should invest more. So here I suggest you try to think about increasing the fees for roads that haven't changed according to county administrations since 2002 and to determine a new kind of, some redistribution of these 60 gallons of fuel here to think a little bit about and think about county and local roads. I think every praise is that here's the Ministry of Road Care. We have a lot of built new highways, state roads, but I think we should take care of both our county and our local roads, which here are our lives and which we use every day. Here is why I ask the Proposer that within the framework of the law, here are his options to find a solution in order for this situation to be improved and here is the new proposal for the Law on Public Roads I will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11144	Thank you. And distinguished representative Ivan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11145	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Amendments and additions to the Law on Public Roads is the harmonisation of Croatia's legislation with EU legislation, and as we heard from the discussion of the other colleagues we hope that, until the second reading, this ambiguity or discrepancies with Croatia's legislation will also be corrected. The existing Public Roads Act was passed in 12 months 2004. We had amendments to the existing law in 12 months of 2006, and they related to the non-payment of tolls for disabled persons above 80% of disability and 60% if the damage to the lower limbs. It is good that the new law stipulates that for this category of disabled persons, a discount is being introduced if the vehicle is not owned by them, but with the Leasing House they have a contract on the use of the vehicle. Therefore, such vehicles, if the contract is referred to as a disabled person who has a contract, have a discount on driving on Croatian highways or objects on which to pay. I'm going to look a little bit more at financing the County Road Administration, so I'm going to finance local and county roads. Honestly, I expected more than this law, than amendments and additions to this law. Maybe let's just say a little bit more professionally disoriented on that, and what I think we should do, that I thought it would be in this law but I certainly hope that there will be another reading or passing of a new law that is reshaping the County Road Administration into companies. County Road Administrations are now institutions owned by the county and as such why not tell honestly they are not in the VAT system. So, all their investments pay VAT. Someone told me it's a threat to privatization, so if they come to trading companies for the County Road Administration, it's not exactly an instruction. Then I wonder what will happen to Croatian roads, Croatian highways or companies of capital, as well as concessionaries. Because in my opinion, it is not right for Croatian road investments as they do not pay VAT, as well as highways, and also for a concessionary who has a concession on Croatian highways or on Croatian roads, and the concessionaire can be a foreign person. So he's also in the VAT system and has the right to return VAT. Well, it's about 200 million kunas, which isn't much, but believe it for the County Road Administrations would mean a lot if somewhere in Croatia it's the average of the County Road Administrations per mile of local and county roads having a circus of about 25000 kuna per year. So, as well as regular maintenance, modernisation, and also the winter service that you believe in some parts of Croatia is not small and that only this winter service eats and money for regular maintenance or for extraordinary maintenance of 25000 if winter is a little sharper, and these can be in the Gorski Kotar, in Ličko-Senj County, in the Karlova County or elsewhere. Croatian roads run a circus at 7400 km. The percentage of asphaltity is 98%, so 2% of state roads are macadam. The County Road Administrations run 10500 km of county roads and a circus of 10600 km of local roads. Don't take my word exactly within a mile, because now there's been a new categorization of county, local and state roads, so there may be some major or smaller changes in mileage. The asphaltity of County Roads in the territory of Croatia is 91%. So 9% of county roads are still macadam. The financing of county roads with all items is the most important fee for roads paid for by registration of motor vehicles and this is the basic income of the County Road Administrations. The second largest income from the Croatian roads is the amount of 240 million kunas that Croatian roads provide to the County Road Administrations based on the size of a road network, the state of roads and according to the assessment that these roads have in their own condition let's also tell this territorial whether it is winter or whether the roads are on an area that is mountain-mountan or Dalmatian and which is harder to maintain. These funds are certainly not enough and what is expected of, in the County Road Administrations, to define the percentage of fuel allocated to Croatian roads and highways, that is, £0.60 per litre of fuel. The County Road Administrations know how many of the 0,60 that are financed by Croatian roads will belong to them whether in percentage or in kunas. But some 0.17 kn, 0.18 kn per litre of fuel is what would satisfy the County Road Administrations in terms of mileage and the degree of reflection of county roads. I believe that this is a proposal that will be included in another reading or some new law, because it is a reality, and we also understand the weight of maintaining state roads and highways, and we do not say that it is not necessary to build highways, but by building highways and state roads, it will certainly be the new law that defines the size of investments or the size of separation from fuel for the county and local roads. In Article 4, a new item has been added that highways and public roads together form a unique network of roads. Namely, we know that public roads, highways, state roads, county and local roads, and this new article, so the network of roads, are highways and state roads. The promoter explains this in a way that along the highways is very often done by state roads and that it is parallel investment, which is not good. I think there must be state roads along the highways, and we also have parts in Croatia that do not have state roads along the highways, but are parallel roads of county or local roads, so I think that the network of public roads should also be made of highways, state roads, county and local roads. It is also necessary because of the operational plan for the winter we bring together. Also an operational plan for tourist season and traffic rerouting in the event of elemental accidents or, God forbid, some major accident. I welcome the amendment to Article 17(4) concerning the maintenance of public road infrastructures. I think that article is really good, and many things will clear up in the field. In Article 26, paragraph 9, we refer to the outage in the construction of highways and public roads. It would be good to consider that the same way is applied to the construction of at least county roads if the land is owned by the state of Croatia that the county road administrations with these small funds do not pay for this land. I welcome the adoption of article 45 relating to the tunnels under which my colleague Gary Capelli spoke quite a bit. So, a tunnel officer is being introduced for more than 500 meters. In his explanation, he says one or more tunnels. It might be good to define how many more tunnels, so you don't have to be one again, maybe for all the tunnels.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11146	Bring the debate to the end, you're down.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11147	Also, it might be good, he says, for tunnels in state and highways, it might be good if that article also applies to other tunnels if there are, because maybe some county road administration will have a tunnel, I don't know if it's now over 500 meters away. I hope that the promoter will include any objections from the representatives or clubs until the second reading. If not until the second reading, then... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11148	Thank you. On behalf of the motionary, State Secretary, the esteemed Drazen Breglec.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11149	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. That only briefly summed up on behalf of the motionor in a public debate. I would like to remind you, this amendment and the addition of public road laws aims to achieve compliance with the European legislative framework and, therefore, not all of those aspects contained in the new Law on Public Roads, which confirmed the need, have already been confirmed, but has also been established by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Communications. So, let me just remind you that the Republic of Croatia has opened Chapter 14 – Transport policy for negotiations in Brussels on 21 April and that the obligation to fully implement European legislation and to transpose it into Croatia, the goal we are seeking and which we intend to meet very soon by the end of this year is, at the latest, to conclude the negotiating chapter at the beginning of next year. For this reason, it was necessary to go with partial amendments to the Law on Public Roads, and certainly that the whole debate on the essence of the problem, which is not a new date, which some decades old is a good basis for all to be taken into account in the process of adopting a new law and that the interests of the county of local self-government, cities, county administrations of roads are distributed to a limited cake for the development of road infrastructure, as far as possible and as fair as possible. Perhaps just one comment on many remarks, on many, so I can freely say regrets for neglecting a certain end, all this comes down to a unique denominator that, of course, the means are less than objective needs and than wishes. But fast construction, especially highways that were politics not last, but the last three or four governments, has a common policy in continuity, of course, its price. That the fast construction that was credited was financed by loans, which is still financed by the participation of 60 plus 60 limes in a litre of fuel prices, of course must now be paid. The second model, which is also slightly applied in the Republic of Croatia, which is building through private concession companies, has its advantages, which are manifested primarily at speed, but also some of its shortcomings that may be manifested at price and in a smaller space to meet perhaps some needs more social than technical and professional character. I would also like to use this opportunity to inform this high house about the efforts of the Republic of Croatia, the Resoring Ministry of the Kalmeta and the activities undertaken in the event of the introduction of Slovenian vignettes. A little more than a month ago, on the subject, Minister of State Secretary, my smallness, in Belgrade, we spoke with European Commission Commissioner for Transport Jacques Barroso, expressed our dissatisfaction, dissatisfaction and the assessment that it was a non-suitable procedure, which was not adopted in European spirit by the currently chairing country to the European Union. Our diplomacy has been working very actively in recent weeks, sending a series of performances to countries in which it is active, and these efforts have produced some concrete fruit, I will specifically state the case when Austrian Foreign Minister Ursula Plassnik sent a protest note, a letter from counterpart Radovan Gerjav, Slovenian Minister of Transport on the same topic. We believe that in the next 12 days how long the Slovenian Presidency is still going on before it is taken over by the French Presidency, the European Union, and even less is possible for Croatia, can make concrete progress, cancelling the decision of the Slovenian Government and simply withdrawing the decision to introduce wines which, as half-yearly or annually, are certainly not suitable and have a certain discriminatory character in relation to transit passengers. But I deliberately emphasized this information about another 12 days of presidencies. All of these initiatives, but also the Croatian Autoclub initiative, which has also initiated protest-oriented actions against its counterparts in other countries, as this is definitely the case for transit passengers. Perhaps all these measures will come together with fruit, if not for this season, almost certainly or very likely for the next one, so in informal conversations we at least get feedback. Finally, Minister Kalmeta's letter, sent to the new Commissioner for Transport, Mr Antonio Tajani, we believe that he will have echoes as well as any future activities on this issue. Let me conclude, in the end, that once again, I will make a point, that everything that has been presented in this debate in this first reading of this proposal for amending and supplementing the Law on Public Roads will be within the scope of those provisions that are now proposed in the submission of the final proposal, and most of the debates that have been tabled here today, presented here, and it concerns the broader framework of public road problems will be taken into account in the adoption of the new law and, of course, it will also be accepted in that sense the suggestion of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and the link on the obligation to propose a new law as recently as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11150	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when we get the conditions for this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11151	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Roads, first reading P.Z. Number 94. The debate is closed. I remind you it's... to determine the agenda, the Government has withdrawn the proposal to discuss this legislative act by means of an urgent procedure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I am voting on the following conclusion: The draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Roads is adopted. Secondly, all comments, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that most votes, with 80 votes, 2 abstentions and 1 against the accepted conclusion. The Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament proposes the adoption of the next conclusion adopted by the Proposer, so I don't know if it should be read? Let us read: The Government of the Republic of Croatia commits itself to making more urgent approaches to the new Law on Public Roads, which, among other things, will comply with the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government and establish issues of financing of County and Local Roads, will enable County Roads to transform into stockholders and establish the commitment of concessionaires to develop and secure their emergency services and fire departments. I'm voting on the board's conclusion. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This conclusion was accepted by most votes; 77 votes for and 7 abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11152	We move to point 4 or in consultation with some of the clubs here in the Parliament, I suggest that points 4 and 5 of the joint discussion, with a view to discussing clubs instead of 15 minutes. Is there anyone you don't give God no? There isn't. Thank you. Therefore, we will conduct a joint discussion on - Proposal for a Law amending the Income Tax Act, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.z. No. 98 - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of units of local and regional (regional self-government, with the Final Proposal of the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 97 The legislator is both the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and when establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of these laws. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the Rules of Procedure, an emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and the Water Economy and the Committee on Development and Reconstruction. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee to one law and to another. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Zdravko Maric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11153	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. So before you is the proposal to amend and supplement the Income Tax Act. I would here only briefly, therefore, state the main reasons that led the Government of the Republic of Croatia to go with this proposal and what are actually the main effects that we expect. As regards the basic personal deduction from 1 January 2005, it was prescribed at the height of 1.600,00 kuna per month, and for pensioners the personal deduction prescribed up to the pension level, up to 3.000,00 kuna. Given that during the period of application of the previously mentioned amounts of non-taxable income, there were changed conditions, above all I would say in the macroeconomic environment at the end of last year, and early this year, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposed that the Law amending the Income Tax Act increase the amount of basic personal deduction from 1.600,00 kuna per month to 1.800,00 kuna per month, and the personal deduction of pensioners from 3.000,00 to 3.200,00 kuna per month. This is actually one of a series of measures that are planned and aimed at easing the impact of these unfavourable movements, above all from the foreign environments that have been overrun and on the domestic economy. The application of those amendments to the proposal is from 1 July 2008. What I would also say is that, in the Income Tax Act, they stay and maintain the existing tax rates. The tax classes also do not change in the sense that the coefficients for dependent members of narrow families and dependent members generally remain the same. However, it draws attention to the fact that, for example, families with only one abstention member, so the basic personal deduction grows by 100,00 kuna. As regards the simulation, according to our simulations and calculations of this change and the amendments and additions of the Income Tax Act have a natural impact on the revenue of the budget, given that the amendments to the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government of income tax are, in fact, the total income of these units. The total loss on a semi-annual basis therefore counting on 1 July is 483 million kuna. In this context, I would also like to present to you, as the esteemed Vice-President of the Parliament, the following point, and in short, point 5, which says, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of units of local and regional, or regional self-government, where the government is actually proposing just to mitigate these, I would say, negative financial effects on the budgets of these units. Thus, the final proposal, i.e. the proposed amendments to the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government, changes and proposes to change the current distribution in income tax in a way that both cities and municipalities and county, and thus the City of Zagreb, would make more of a contribution in terms of a larger share. For cities and municipalities, their share of total income tax would be increased by 3% points, which means 52 to 55%, the County by 0.5%, or 15 to 15.5%, and thus the City of Zagreb would have a total share in income tax, i.e. income tax revenues from 67% to 70.5. The exemption from income tax at the level of balancing aid for decentralised functions is also reduced by 3.5% from 21% to 17.5%, but I must immediately note that in these amendments and additions to the Law on the financing of the unit of local and regional self-government, however, the total planned resources and total resources for decentralised functions of the EAGF are not changed. In other words, that part of the funds that have been reduced will be raised from other revenues of the state budget. The application of this law, i.e. the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of units of regional and local self-government, is the effect of reducing the revenue of the state budget by 238 million kuna on a semi-annual basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11154	Thank you. Do the representatives of the working bodies want to take part in the debate? No, I don't. Thank you. We're moving on to a debate and it's in clubs. So, once again, the clubs argue for 20 minutes. The first club is the Croatian People's Party, the esteemed representative Željko Vincelj.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11155	Dear Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a bill that increases the untaxable share of income, i.e. the basic personal deduction of employees from a thousand 600 to a thousand 800 kuna, i.e. the non-taxable part of pensioners from 3,000 to 3,000 200, with the application of 1 July as a measure aimed at easing the impact of energy prices on living standards. The Croatian People's Party of course supports the move, because it still brings some kuna to the citizens' pocket, but with a strong critical approach to the Government of the Republic of Croatia because of its way and method of action in this case. Because simplistically, employees and pensioners are given several hundred kunas a year in their wallets and taken away by several thousand kunas. Several hundred million kunas are also taken by county, city and municipal budgets. You're wondering who's getting here. It receives a state budget of several billion kunas on top of one billion which will give what it will give to partially compensate local communities as the biggest income tax users and businesses to slow them down in further price hikes. The bakers, the milkmen, the butchers and who knows who else. These few billion will be deposited in the state register, from Croatian citizens and businesses, as a result of the increase in energy prices, i.e. from the profits of HEP and INA, and from excise duties and VAT contained in energy prices. In this game, losers are citizens of the local community, and the winner is the state. We are wondering whether our government's approach should be several times more profitable than to give citizens, local communities and economies to mitigate the effects of inflation. Isn't this hypocritical? This really looks like that farsical shopping price hike in October for 100%, so that at Christmas, big posters come down 50%. During last 2007 and this year, energy and food prices, and then everything else after a long time became a hit topic, with a permanent assessment of the resulting inflation. The collection of energy has, of course, its global global explanation of causality and certainty, but it should not be forgotten that price adjustment is firm and irrefutable in the hands of the Government, so we also come up with the indisputable fact that filling the budget is largely based on energy taxation, and our starting position is that we are relatively high in charge of the country, which is dependent on energy imports and is significantly exposed to energy and other disturbances in the external markets. You will agree with me that the country has not adequately developed its ability to prevent and manage these extreme disorders and risks. Advanced, mainly energy poor countries are thinking and forming their energy future for the next 20 to 30 years, and we don't have a long-term energy strategy, and then it happens that one day we need a nuke, and the other day we don't, because over the night we realized that if we reach enough deep into the pockets of poor citizens there will be enough money to get to energy by other means, wind, sun, water or oily tail. Here, if the citizens of Croatia also thought that the electricity accumulated because HEP did not cover its costs or perhaps losses, they were wrong because these coins of citizens needed to develop into the energy system so they shouldn't build that evil nuke. Namely, both 2005 and 2006 and 2007 the HEP ends up with a very high profit in business, before taxation of a total of 880 million kuna. Where's that money? In the register of the owner of the Croatian state. Why he did not end up in the development of HEP or why he was not a shock absorber, possibly worse operating conditions for HEP during the past and this year, so there should be no increase in electricity prices to citizens. On the other hand, profits before INA tax in 2005, 2006 and 2007 totalled 3 billion 384 million kuna. Get before tax for the first 3 months of this year compared to the first 3 months of 2007, believe it or not, 751 to 250 million kuna. Gentlemen, three times bigger than last year. Why and where does it come from? Doesn't that mean they've been trading too high the prices of their products, that we've been paying a lot of gas on INA gas stations. Of course it does, because INA is charging us with the world price of oil and that part of the oil we produce at home that's incomparably cheaper than import oil. In this way, INA generates extra profits, unjustly to the damages of Croatian citizens and businesses. Let's return for a moment to the beginning, to the facts relating to this necessary but petty fire measure by the Government to mitigate the crisis in the citizens' standard due to the rampage of fuel prices and electricity collection. According to union calculations, the average salary in Croatia should be higher by 45 kuna after 1 July. They say good, but it's not good that this was done without dialogue with the social partners. That's what we from the Croatian People's Party say. With these 45 additional kunas, citizens should cover 500 kunas and more kunas needed monthly for expensive food and energy. You'll admit, impossible mission. The vast majority of Croatian citizens do not know how they will survive with new food and energy prices and are unique in the view that the government does not make God know what to make their lives easier. Even before these gatherings, the average family lacked 30 per cent of regular financial resources to cover monthly expenses, with 60% of Croats paying less than the average. Among them 123,000 workers on the minimal and many more with salaries below 3 thousand kuna. The most impacted by those most unprotected citizens of our country, those who should be a measure of social justice in the country, 255,000 unemployed of whom only 60 thousand receive a fine of 1,000 kuna, 170 thousand social aid recipients up to 500 kuna, 700 thousand pensioners who receive pensions below the poverty line. So those who can't, with whom we have to be solid. And what does our government do? Instead of helping them directly, the government is helping with electricity consumption, not poverty, because the level of electricity consumption in many cases does not reflect good or bad standards. The increase in the non-taxable share of income that I repeat to the average employee will bring a few dozen kunas will be minimal aid only to those who pay taxes and who will not pay any of those who are unemployed, not to those with small salaries, not to families with more children working in one or no parents. Multiple families and that they want electricity can't save. Children need to cook lunch, wash, iron, heat themselves, and even wash and iron deep into the night when the electricity is cheaper or not warm at night, they can't spend less than 3,000 kilowatts a year in the field of theory, but less consumption will have some successful single person, a manager with a salary of 20 thousand kuna which he doesn't have at night, a job on the road and sleeps on hotels, home he doesn't cook, laundry and iron in a dry cleaner or someone who has a quiet apartment or cottage next to his house. But here's the government's move to say that we can't claim that it's doing nothing and its president's doing it in a lifeguard's manner, banging on the fingertips that mean HEP and instead of asking for 54% price hikes it approves 20%. It's too many times seen, the bad guys are looking for 10, and the good ones are just giving them five. And I remind myself once again of HEP's profit shown in 2005, 2006 and 2007 of 880 million kunas, from which the required percentage of the 54% increase in prices was born, when the operating incomes of the electricity price provided a nice profit to HEP. The point on these electricity stories is that the government will replace HEP 168 million kuna from the state budget as much as estimated to be less due to these 15 and 10% discounts for consumers up to 2, or 3,000 kilowatt hours of electricity per year. In fact, HEP has an annual income of over 10 billion kuna. This means that the state, in the name of the VAT, will collect more than 400 million kuna in the accumulated part of the electricity. All in all, there will be a nice profit in the state register, taken of course from the hollow pockets of citizens and the increasingly uncompetitive Croatian economy. And the rampage of fuel prices has a similar background. I repeat the INA in 2005, 2006 and 2007 and in the first 3 months of this year it generates a profit of 4 billion 135 million kuna. Not loss, profit. The global trend in energy prices on our government's global market is a front for impotence with the protection of human standards, because the world, the price of crude oil, the stock market, the war in Iraq, etc. And here as well as for example. The price of food to perfection leads to a transfer of responsibility to someone else, with an ironic addition that it is essential that people are fed up, full of the stomach is probably the end of the story in the society of prosperity that one Slavonic journalist recently said, and we are not going to talk about hectares of unprocessed surfaces, inert agricultural cultures, missed investments, unplanned access to food production and the preference of imported lobbys to the damage of domestic warlords. The global world trend is a cause for concern, and on our Croatian occasions and panic, but only for those 4.4 kuna which is the price of INA of nearly 10 kuna in a liter of Eurosuper 95 on gas stations. If we add those 1.2 kunas to all highways and roads in Croatia, there are 4 kunas left which are State revenue through excise duty and VAT. The excise duties account for an average of 17.4 total retail prices of petroleum products. If we add both VAT and 22%, and VAT is also paid on excise duties, so we pay tax, the government can affect 40 percent of retail prices by reducing the tax part of the price, even in two ways, by reducing the tax share or by changing the VAT base so that it excludes excise duties and fees for Croatian highways and Croatian roads, so that it gives up tax collection. But no, the government doesn't want to give up its fuel price fees, but as citizens buy fuel, it means they have money, so let's move on, from every collection in the state register, new millions of kunas of excise duties and taxes are pouring in. At the end of the year there will also be several billion additional tax kunas of expensive fuel, with a truly underestimating approach, and if we did so in a short time we would be back at the old price level. Yeah, probably, but then we'd know it was our world, not our country, and I repeat, it's 5.6 to 10 kuna in a liter of fuel. And on top of that, she's a huge profit that INA makes in her business. Of course, this will of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to partially give up its share of the fuel price is a short-term, fire-fighting measure, but that first initial measure is necessary for the citizens and for the economy of this country. Well, we really can't have a higher price of fuel with 5 thousand kunas than citizens in European countries with 15 to 20 thousand kunas. Behind or along with it, we should urgently develop our country's energy strategy because we have shown that we have unpreparedly welcomed the predictable energy crisis that can be solved by sacrificing the standard of people with below average incomes. Energy policy must, however, be an incentive to develop and exploit alternative energy sources, thus reducing import dependence and increasing energy efficiency. Of course, it also encourages the substitution of road transport, transport by rail or by water. It was diesel fuel for the future. Alternative to existing expensive fuels. Croatia has natural gas as a possibility of driving fuel for cars. But both bio diesel and auto gas must be a strategy, a state policy with stimulating access, not such that vehicles with built-in gas have to pay extra taxes instead of getting a discount on the registration of such a vehicle. Croatia has neither used a minimum of hydro potential, such as Sava and Drava, unlike our neighbours Slovenians and Hungarians, as well as the potential in thermal power plants and the use of ingested gas. Furthermore, as an alternative to the use of electricity produced in classical ways in the European Union for years, heat and power plants used by gas produced from cow or pig waste, eco-energy used by fast-growing wood, power plants using wind power and heat from the sun are operating. But again, it must be a state policy strategy with a stimulating approach, not to allow only one-sixth of the wind power plants for which the intention of private investors is demonstrated. The solarisation of Dalmatia must be one of the fundamental elements of Croatia's energy strategy. In all this, their place, role and interest can also be found by the citizens of our country by planting oil tails, fast-growing trees for eco-energys, exploiting feces from farms with the already mentioned installation of gas into cars, solar plates for households and the like. But the state has to give a hand for it, too. Why not raise tax deductions from 12,000 kuna to 24,000 kuna and pay the citizen back the gas tax in the car, for the purchase of solar collectors, for the purchase of electrical devices A of the savings class, for the purchase of savings bulbs then both the state and its citizens would be partners on their way to achieving the same goal of a more stable and cheaper energy future. We want to believe that the current government has the will to take action with these short-term, long-term measures to ensure energy stability but that it will respond urgently with short-term fire measures. But also by changing the model to help citizens at the price of electricity so that the aid is logical and excessive and by correcting the price of fuel in part of their responsibility for that price. At that time, the Law on increasing the non-taxable part of income, which will provide a small part of Croatian citizens with several ten kunas per month, would not only be a populist move by the Government of the Republic of Croatia aimed at easing the impact of energy prices on the living standard of Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11156	Thank you. And now we have one series of corrections of incorrect allegations. He's the first respected representative of Milivo Schwartz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11157	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, I have to focus on a series of inaccuracies he mentioned, and I'm going to focus on two things. And that's the first finding that the government is hypocritical, which is simply not true, I reject it with the resignation. And secondly, the municipal and city budgets are running out of huge money. However, I think these two laws have been translated from the Law on the raising of personal deductions and the insurance of the situation that municipal, urban budgets are not losing anything. And if there's any difference between 100 or 200 kunas per few hundred million kunas, I think that's hard to say. In the end, I'm going to be résumé. I think it's pure politics and yet the government led by the Croatian Democratic Community and together with coalition partners is taking care of the situation of energy and to help those who receive the least income. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11158	Thank you. Dear Representative Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11159	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This populist presentation of Mr. Vincey I must correct first what he spoke of a completely different topic. He was talking about energy and he didn't realize this was an income tax topic. He was talking about the price of oil derivatives. He criticized the INA, he talked about the price rampage. As far as I know, Mr Dragicevic from his party is a member of the INA. So I don't see why you're criticizing your colleague and your party. He forgot to say that oil in the world market has accumulated enormously. He's talking about how INA picked up the fuel. It's just not true. INA did not collect fuel for it to be, because it is bad for the Croatian people as the gentleman wanted to show it. He's still talking about the price of electricity. Did Mr. Gristle throw anything? [[/Intruder: Time, time! Time, time!]] [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[Agreement: No throwing from the bench, please nice.]] Mr. Skinny, be patient. I'm begging you, since I'm getting more because he's in. [[Agreement: No throw!]] He fell into my word, Mr. Vice President. [[Intruder: No, it was already]] I think the gentleman who said this wanted to paint the Croatian public and I think he paints something else. [[You've already been in red, Mr. Representative, don't be angry, finish.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11160	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Dear Representative Frana Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11161	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is incorrect that the most impoverished part of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will be affected by electricity collection. If you have carefully observed everything that has happened in recent days, you could also hear one piece of information that 47% of households will not increase at all the amount of electricity. So the largest number of households won't be in 5, with 5% of households, the next 15% and so on. So the majority of households will either remain spared in some way or will minimally collect their electricity. Among them are certainly the poorest part of which also raises the amount of income tax. Also, cities and municipalities will not run out of income because from other sources with an increase in income tax deductions they will get that difference so that they will eventually profit and remain a colleague of Zubovic said. Your party member is the president of the INA. I'll just remind you. The moment the oil was $34 per barrel, then you increased the price to 7.4 kuna liters of gasoline, a liter of Eurosuper, and today When the barrel of oil is at $140 that's the price of market 9 point and something, then ask yourself where that difference went and who put that difference in his pocket. [[Employing Capricorn: Bring the end.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11162	Thank you. I'm warning the MPs once more, please stick to the time limit so I don't have to warn you. Thank you. Dear representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11163	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I would already correct the wrong quote of Mr. MPs even if it is already partially corrected, but I would also like to refer to the conclusion that the increase in electricity prices will be the most affected by the poorest layers of the Croatian state. I believe that this is a false allegation precisely because 47.3% of households will not increase electricity prices at all. In this segment, the state budget co-finances 160 million kuna and thus shows its full sensitivity to the poorest members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11164	Thank you. Dear Representative Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11165	Well, Mr. Vice President, in a whole series of incorrect allegations I'd say it would still be good to correct perhaps the one with the educational character. We've spent thousands and thousands of kilowatts. We couldn't spend thousands and thousands of kilowatts. We could only spend thousands and thousands of kilowatts of hours. You should know that when it comes to such an important subject. Furthermore, we did not welcome the predictable energy crisis. That's not true. The global energy crisis is not as easy to predict as you think it is, and here is just one part of what is incorrect, and it concerns such an important debate on the energy security of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11166	Thank you. And distinguished representative Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11167	Mr. Vice President, the esteemed colleague Vincelj has spoken several lies. I'll just have one. He said that, therefore, I am correcting his untruth clearly. The government is told justice by the collection of energy in the world and is unaware of what is happening. That's not true. The truth is, no one in the government, and neither does the prime minister hide the reality of the situation. The prime minister said publicly: “The fact is that energy and food will never be as cheap as they were yesterday. This paradigm is changing, and Croatia needs to know how to respond. Well, I'll tell you the answer comes in the form of a series of measures. About 1.8 billion kunas will cost the state measures to ease the impact on citizens who have clearly caused the collection of energy and food.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11168	Thank you. We're moving on with the club debate. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11169	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, gentlemen of Parliament's esteem. We have two very interesting laws ahead of us. So one is the Law on the financing of units of local, regional (regional) self-government, P.Z. No. 92 and 2 is this P.Z. No. 98. Income tax law. It is understandable that these two laws cannot be observed separately, and therefore it is certainly good that we are All right, come on, let's make it 97. [[/Intruder Jarnjak: I just need to correct you, Your Honor. It's not P.Z. 92, P.Z. 97. It's important for the record so it won't be said afterwards.]] Yeah, it's not the law. I've got 97th and 98th ahead of me. So, what I was gonna say is that I keep going. Understandably, these two laws cannot be observed separately. Understandably, this discussion was to be united. Why was it necessary to unite? So, if this non-taxable part is increased as in this case from 1600 to 1800 kuna, i.e. with pensioners from 3000 to 3200 kuna, and since income tax is exclusively or almost exclusively, it is almost entirely to be more precise income from local self-government, then it is clear that local self-government will do this kind of intervention if there is no such law on the financing of units of local self-government. So she'd run out of significant resources. Understandably, those funds to her or local self - government must be settled, and who can do so at this time. Only the state can make it clear. What's the loss of local self-government? The Ministry of Finance, as we heard from the secretary of state, calculated that this is about 483 million kuna. However, to get to know all the government's equilibrists, it should also be said that by abolishing the profit tax with something small that has lost the City of Zagreb. It is about about about 50 million kuna in the loss of Istria County 27 million kuna, 12, 13% of its budget, and for example the town of Rovinj loses as much as 30% of its budget revenue and it is not going to make it up to the city of Rovinj, the County of the Istrian State, and then I responsibly argue that the greatest burden of such tax equilibrists falls on the shoulders of Istrians. Soon it will be discussed also about the implementation of the Republic of Croatia's budget for the first 6 months of this year, and according to this data for the first 6 months of the County of Istria 5 billion kuna as it went towards the state budget, let's not count wages in some sectors or pensions came or came back for capital investments, so the correction has returned 45 million kuna, which is about 6 million euros. I'm sure all the other counties have gotten far more. I counted normally comparing myself with the Primorje-Gorski. There were around 293 million kunas or around 40 million euros. What did the money come for in Istria? 500 thousand kuna Mate Balota Elementary School in Bujam. Italian sports hall million and 500 thousand kuna. The “Rovinj” sports hall 1 million kunas, and Rovinj takes 30 million kunas per year on the basis of profit tax. For the regular activity of the University of Pula 27 million kuna, plus the University of Pula 10.6 million kuna, for the General Hospital in Pula exactly 840 thousand 84 kuna and 76 lipa, the House for Mental Diseases in Motovun 1.3 million kuna, the regional development of Istria County million and 900 thousand kuna and from the budget reserve church, which I absolutely support came 4 million kuna. So I repeat at the annual level about 10 million kunas are going, and it's going back around 100 million kunas. On the other hand, when it comes to Istria, Istria is alone who has resuscitated its tourism without any kuna assistance on the side and I dare say a good part of the shipbuilding, but this relationship is simply today between political Zagreb and the same insult. Let me go back to this Law on the financing of local self-government. Here, the income from income tax is increased in favour of local self-government, which will say our municipalities, cities plus, clear county, but with the aim of either being or only to release these 486 million kunas that will lose local self-government in, say, this year or next year. But the point is next. This Income Tax Act, which brings some additional income to citizens, but also to say, this law does not bring income to all, in fact, least of all, I dare say, and I will later use incentives, at least or better, not to bring anything to those who have, let's say, pay up to 3,000 kuna net, and it brings most to those with above average incomes even though it would be possible to discuss what it is, let's say, above the average income in the Republic of Croatia. Is that, for example, an average salary of 5 thousand kuna or 700 euros, and you got on the other hand a social apartment of 100 squares for 5 or 10 thousand marks then, or is that, say, a net salary of 10 thousand kuna, and you have a rented apartment for yourself and your family. So it's all relative. Someone will say clearly, it is logical that one who pays more taxes and contributes to the state to have more, but it is also legitimate in what Mr Vincelj said that one who has little, and only inflation in May at year level was 6.4% to someone who has little, it is lost that should be compensated and that is simply the point. So, because of the expensive oil fuel, it was collected in May in a month, so only in the fifth month was 12.6%. That's why, according to these analyses, our business banks, traffic has accumulated 2.7%. It only collects electricity thanks to the fact that unlike the INA, the HEP has not been privatised to the price of electricity in Croatia in the last 3 years has not been corrected, and it should also be fair and emphasized. And God forbid you don't have to correct the price of electricity, but it's almost impossible and this formula around the collection may be, perhaps the least bad solution, we'll see, but it will also affect a strong inflationary growth. Mr. Vincelj was amazed that INA earned it, it seems to me he told me for the first three months of this year, the profit meant a profit of 750 million kuna. Last year in the last three months, in the first quarter, it reached about 270 million kuna. I claim the reason so high to get is privatisation. If she hadn't been privatized, if someone had had had this political influence on her, the question is, would those entire oil derivatives have been savaged in this way? And to answer, let's say for Začević, today it is clear to all of us, and not to excuse Zubovic, but it is also because of the consolidation of these political relations in the country, clearly that no one can replace or think of touching Mr Dragicevic. Maybe the Hungarians could do it, but while he has such support at the top of this country, I don't mean here on government, clearly that's impossible. What needs to be feared, however, is that the price of electricity will grow in the future as well as oil is, if he approaches the privatisation of HEP and therefore let's be careful, let's be careful and not fall into the unknown. What's on the other side of the matter? We pay, so 15% of the tax on three thousand 600 kuna, personal deduction is now a thousand 800 kuna. 25% for the next 5 thousand 400 kuna of these 3 thousand 600 to 5 thousand and 400, 35% for the next, means 5 thousand 400 to 16 thousand 200 kuna, 45% over 25 thousand and 200 kuna. These 200 kunas mean that the state will lose 69.2 million kunas, the county 60.3 million kunas, the cities of 354.2 million kunas, meaning these mentioned 483,8 million kunas. But look at the absurd now, and I said I'd talk about these simulations. If someone in this country receives a gross salary of 4 thousand kuna, net is 2 thousand 960, he pays 240 kuna tax and now the old-new relationship that worker will earn now only 30 kuna more. If he's got one kid, and he's got more of those reliefs, he's gonna get 45 kunas more in his pay, if he's got two kids, the secretary of state, that someone's not gonna make any money. Instead of making more money, he's not gonna make any money. If someone has a gross salary of 6 thousand kuna, so net has 4 thousand 320 kuna, now they'll have the same one, so if they don't have children, etc. earning plus 30 kuna, if there's one child, 45 kuna, if there's two children, 66 kuna, which is relatively fair because the more children you have, the bigger expenses and that's correct. If there's someone, now we're going to go on 8 thousand kunas, I'm going to get to 25, 8 thousand kunas, so that's 5 thousand 520 kuna, let's say that's an average salary somewhere, so no children, he's going to get now for new calculations plus 90 kuna, if he has one child plus 115 kuna, if he has two children, 66 kuna. If he's got three kids, he'll get 96 kuna more. If someone has 10 thousand kuna, net 6.720,00 kuna, they will receive 90 kuna, with one child 115, with two children 150 kuna. If there is someone 15 thousand kuna, meaning net 9.480,00 kuna, so if there are no children plus 210, if there is one child gets 245 kuna more, if he has two children get 198 kuna more, it is somewhere 47 kuna less, if he has three children 200 kuna. So there's an interesting calculation of how it changes, or how it falls. Now let's get to the minister. Gross 30,000 kuna, we're a little close by, so it's interesting to watch it. His net salary is 17.280,00 kuna. If no children get 210 kuna, with one child he gets 245 kuna, two children 294 kuna, three children 364 kuna. We're already coming to an honest approach here. With the Deputy Prime Minister receiving 35,000 kunas gross or 19.480,00 kuna net. If there are no children now he gets 510 kuna, with one child he gets 555 kuna, with two children and falls down to 502 kuna, and if he has three children 412 kuna. That's interesting, but it also speaks of simply the fact that it's hard to get to an honest approach that will satisfy everyone. Math is clearly accurate, but that doesn't mean that math is always "just" under quotes. If you have some, you'll get little or nothing, if you have a lot, then it's worth the most to you to have one child. So someone is going to say that this law is not socially fair, or eliminates the cost of living, or fights inflation, or has any special demographic effects. True, we are sending a message with this law in some way, and it could say that we want to alleviate a social blow, but we do not know what to do or rather say we may not have the elements to do. And that's why I keep repeating after this speaker that the best social policy is a full-employment policy, that the best development policy is a full-time employment policy, but also that the best economic policy is a full-time policy. I think that should be fair, that in some parts of Croatia we are approaching this ideal and I also think that what I need to particularly welcome is that the number of unemployed has suddenly fallen or fallen into continuity for four or five years. However, that should be said, it is over, in Croatia the higher and higher of these costs of living in the future will have to work far more, and by the way will probably be more uncertain and harder to live. What is also interesting to note in this law, this law also tangs mountainous and mountainous areas, areas of special state concern. Since they think at 90% of the amount, they generate income from income tax, these changes in the law and the environment will also significantly lose income on these grounds that they collect on the basis of income tax. I can specifically say for the city of Buzet it is about 600 thousand kuna and it would be fair to meet both mountainous and mountainous areas and areas of special state interest or concern. Now what's the solution for Croatia? I don't know, I won't talk about it too much. However, what the Government suggests I think the solution is one in decentralisation, but what the Government suggests in its guidelines, and also part of the opposition that I don't know at the end of the mandate until 2011, local self-government should have a total of 20% of budget revenues, for me it can hardly be a solution when we know that local self-government of municipalities, cities, counties, means all together, plus the City of Zagreb clearly come up to 16% of these revenues at this point. So the state is 84% if we come to 20% now, which I think is absolutely insufficient especially when it comes to counties, then we would get maybe a billion or two billion kunas in total, and that is certainly not some solution, but simply a local self-government must seek to divide one-third of it and two-thirds of the Republic of Croatia. However, in 2008 and that is clear to me, the central battle is not being fought in this country for the position of local self-government, for the position of decentralisation of this country as much as it would help central governments. The central battle at the moment is being fought simply for bare survival, for electricity prices, for energy, etc. For example, let me remember now, now that I've been in Austria, everyone just wonders, and it really looks famous and whoever hasn't had the chance to experience it should go now that we're playing in the finals and before that to the semifinals against probably these Portuguese, when 100 thousand people in one Vienna and in Klagenfurt are in uniforms on dice and all of them, says that it's possible to live with 3 to 5,000 kuna, I don't know, and on the other hand, there's anyone who stays there for one or two days there who has to isolate at least 200 euros on that basis. However, we will continue to follow a clear team because it deserves it, but it is also a fact that after 7 relatively good years after that Bible, I mean not only Croatia but also many other countries in the environment follow us and 7 relatively difficult years. At this time, the 34.4 billion euros is Croatia's external debt. inflation was 6.4% year-on-year in May, all accumulated. The electric shock will be dramatic for many, and yet we will spend more on cell phones than on electricity, we will pay more for the car and maintenance of the car than for the apartment and it is time to put their heads together and answer how to proceed. Clearly IDS will vote for these two laws, better anything than nothing, but I don't think the problem with those measures or with those measures is solved. The solution is what is often the hardest thing for us to do, and we are often the weakest. All I have to admit is something is trying to do, but what I think is not enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11170	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Frana Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11171	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague incorrectly stated that Istra was the most participated in the revenues of the state budget, that only 10 million return and that only 10 million return to Istria and then counted several projects. Well, you forgot to tell your colleague that out of decentralised functions, a good part of the funds is also financed through the state budget. You forgot to tell the school staff, in health care directly from the state budget, that their salaries are being paid. That's hundreds of millions of kunas or billions. Therefore, do not deceive the public from returning to Istria now through the state budget, that the funds do not return to Istria. They come back as well as in all other parts of Croatia. Fortunately, Istria has not gone through that many parts of Croatia have been through war, it is not in this way damaged and in this sense it is good that it has not gone through, and others should have been helped and put on their feet, and today they are on their feet and participating in the state budget, some and more of Istria, some.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11172	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, we have two to discuss. First is the distinguished representative Kreso Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11173	Dear Mr. Vice President, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, colleagues and colleagues. Here I must honestly say that after the debate of Mr Vincelj, I was confused by which we discuss points of the agenda, whether we are discussing the energy strategy of the Republic of Croatia or discussing income tax, that is, the Income Tax Act and the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government. Little did Mr. Caine get me back on track. Just for information to Mr Vincelj that soon the energy development strategy of the Republic of Croatia will be in front of the Croatian Assembly and we will have the opportunity to discuss it. There is a law before us that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, along with the other measures that we have been able to listen to and read about these days, but is indeed trying to act in the direction of easing the effects of price increases before all the energy plants on the living standard of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and it proposes to bring about an urgent procedure, which is quite understandable. Despite that first debate in front of the HNS club, I will express the confidence of the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives Club that the Proposal for a Law amending the Income Tax Act, which I will speak of more without reservation, primarily for the purpose of achieving the goal that other clubs will do the same and thus contribute to raising at least part of our citizens' standards in some way. Namely, the basic rules governing the income tax system in the Republic of Croatia are the Income Tax Act and several implementing rules, so that I do not list them here. I would remind us all that the taxation system for the income of natural persons was introduced to us on 1 January 1994 by the Income Tax Act, which was adopted by the Croatian Parliament at the end of 1993 and which was in force until 31 December 2000, when the new Income Tax Act was adopted at the end, the new Income Tax Act. And this law was applied, which applied therefore for 4 years from 2001 to 2004, experienced several amendments and additions and therefore, but also from a number of other circumstances that had changed required significant interventions and a more complete solution. I will stick to this principle of simplicity, transparency, complete and comprehensibility, as well as the fundamental principles of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which point to as fair a distribution of the tax burden as possible and equality and justice in the taxation of citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, a new Income Tax Act was to be drawn up whose provisions would be unambiguous and precise, in order to avoid misunderstandings in implementation and frequent enquiries by taxpayers and which would simplify the current system of income tax both from taxpayers' point of view and payer's employer's point of view, as well as from the point of view of the tax administration whose tax collection business so I say must be effective and rational. It was also necessary to take account of the fact that intervention in the law in the future is as rare as possible and thus enable taxpayers to plan their business activities in the longer term, their investments under the same tax conditions. The Croatian Parliament, and on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which had taken into account everything previously made, adopted today on 3 December 2004 the applicable Income Tax Act published in the "National Journal" 177 since 2004 with effect from 1 January 2005. In particular, the Croatian Democratic Community's club points out that today's applicable Income Tax Act has not experienced a single amendment and addition for a full period of 3 and a half years, and that the applicable income tax system is guaranteed except for the completion of its basic and fundamental fiscal task of implementing a well-established social and economic policy. Therefore, income tax, together with income tax, are instruments of fiscal policy which are of paramount importance for the state budget, especially for local community budgets. This claim is supported by the fact that tax and income tax have a leading role to play in financing the public needs of local and regional self-government units and the City of Zagreb, while their participation in the total incomes and receipts of local budgets is more than 40%. The new law, i.e. the applicable Law, particularly emphasizes its social component in the part of the provisions governing the height of the personal deduction, or the non-taxable part of the income. Thus, while maintaining the provisions of the law in question are introduced and certain newspapers and corrections, I will mention only a few of them. A personal deduction, a basic personal deduction from a thousand 500 to a thousand 600 kuna, has been increased. The increased non-taxable income amounts by... members of the rope family and children. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Non-taxable income amounts have been increased based on the disability of the taxpayer himself, as well as their members of the family and children. A non-taxable part of income of 1,000 kuna per month has been introduced for taxpayers and members of the family and children who have 100% disability or if they have the right to be disabled according to special regulations on other people's care and assistance. Certain new concessions and exemptions for certain categories of company have been introduced, new income not considered as income has been introduced, and no income tax, etc. has been paid up to certain amounts. It should also be pointed out that the law also contains provisions with a development component which specifically concerned the promotion of employment and the increase of economic activity in areas of particular concern and mountain-mounted areas. I also find it important to note that we in the Republic of Croatia have a professional income tax system that is more pronounced than in other countries, which simply means that tax burdens are more covered by those who earn higher incomes, and significantly less those who earn small incomes. The progressiveness of our income tax system is determined by different elements, such as tax rates ranging from 25 to 45% of the personal and other deductions, and the reduction of the tax liability based on certain expenditure used for the purposes of treatment, housing care and improvement of the conditions of residence of taxpayers, but also on the day-to-day benefits for cultural, educational, health and humanitarian and other purposes. The functioning of the system in this way also shows its social dimension. The proposed law amending the Income Tax Act as previously said by the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the first time after a full three-and-a-half year intervenes in the income tax system for completely understandable reasons. Although the intervention in the law is, if we look at it from the aspect of the proposed changes, it is of great importance and importance. The proposed amendments to the Income Tax Act intend to increase the amount of personal, basic personal deduction from 1600 to 1800 kuna and the amount of personal deduction for pensioners from up to now a maximum of 3 thousand kuna to 3 thousand and 200 kuna. This amendment represents only one of the measures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in order to mitigate the impact of unfavourable movements on the standard of living of Croatian citizens. I am sorry that I had the opportunity to hear in previous exhibitions the attempts of devaluation mean the good intentions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and we are wondering why I mention that this is just one of the measures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Well, here's a chance for us to be witnesses in the previous days, I listened and read through the media that the Government of the Republic of Croatia succeeded with the Croatian Electricity to arrange that for so-called so-called. small consumers who are somewhere around 45% according to the information we received in the public electricity will not collect or collect quite insignificantly. The Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club, in particular, stresses that the mentioned unfavourable movements, which show constant pressure on price growth in the Republic of Croatia, were caused before all changes, changed conditions in the macroeconomic environment particularly related to the rise of oil and food prices on the world market. So it's about inflationary pressures that are caused by circumstances in our environment or by binding inflation factors. Although the draft law amending and supplementing the Income Tax Act will not alter or retain the applicable tax rates and factors of personal deduction affecting the rise of Croatian citizens' standards under this proposal will not only have an increased amount of personal deduction. That's what Mr. Cain was talking about. Its impact on the growth of standards will also have an untaxable share of income resulting from the personal deduction factor for dependent members of the family, dependent children and disability by applying the factors of personal deduction to a higher accounting base. So no more at 1600 kuna than at 1800 kuna. And they're also going to have those tax classes because we know that tax classes are increasing financially. Finally, it should be mentioned, Mr Gulić will speak more of this by my noun, it should be mentioned that this law has and negative means repercusion to the budget of the units of local self-government. This is why, therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia now, here we are now discussing as a united point, also proposing the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of units of local self-government. Respecting all previously said and the fact that the proposed intervention in the income tax system in the Republic of Croatia directly affects the growth of the standards of Croatian citizens who, in addition to other measures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, will, as I have already said, significantly mitigate the consequences of the rise of energy and food prices on the standard of living of citizens, the Croatian Democratic Community's Club of Representatives will, without exception and unreservedly, support the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Tax on Income, which was delivered to the Croatian Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 29 May of this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11174	Thank you. The second part of the debate on behalf of the HDZ Club, the esteemed representative Kresimir Gulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11175	Dear Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. So here's a long story about a new law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government so I'm not saying too much, I'm just going to say what's already been said here, and that's that the bill amending the Income Tax Act is increasing personal deduction from 1600 to 1800 kuna, which is going to have a negative effect on units of local, regional and regional self-government. Since the final proposal for a law amending the Income Tax Act reduces income income from income tax, it is necessary to propose an additional distribution of income tax to units of local and regional self-government and a new source of income in order to be able to comply with the law of established financial obligations which are here, which they have put before them. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government have changed the current distribution of income tax through further distribution of income tax, the increase of current share in income tax for cities and municipalities as already said 3% and counties by 0.5%, as follows by municipalities and cities from 52% to 55%, the county from 15 to 15 and a half and the city of Zagreb from 67 to 70.5%. Issuing from income tax at the point of aid for decentralised functions is reduced from 3 and a half percent and from 21 to 17 percent respectively and the municipalities and cities on the island by that percentage decreases the share of joint financing of capital projects from the interest and development of the island. The reasons for changing this rate lie in the fact that the total loss in the incomes of the unit of local and regional self-government from the increase of the non-taxable part of income from 1600 to 1800 kuna amounts to 483 million kuna. What I would like to say and what is said is already here in previous discussions I understand our opposition too that it must find some objections, but I think the Government, the Croatian Government, is trying to make the most of this blow that hit us with this price of fuel. He's picking up all this stuff that's going on. But I have to say when it comes to excise duties that it's not correct to say that the excise duty is now reduced because I think we're all aware that at the time of the coalition government the contract is signed and the financing of the construction of our highways. We inherited this contract and we accepted it and we know that the price and the excise charge is included and the construction of our highways is included. I think we need to be aware of that and admit it's true. What I particularly want to say is Mr. Cain said a few words here, and it's about special national concerns. So we have three groups and mountain-mounted areas. I think I come from a municipality that has the status of a mountain-mounted area. It doesn't change anything in funding in this part, but since we have 90%, I don't think there's any reason that income has any reason to change anything. I have to point out there is always mentioned that a lot of municipalities and cities are losing in these amendments to the law. I must stress that there are 214 cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia that have the status of whether the special state care of the first, second or third groups or the status of mountain-mountan area, so here we are when it comes to the state care of the first, second or third groups we have 169 cities and municipalities and 78 settlements. And as for the mountains and mountains, we have 12 cities and 33 municipalities, which is 45 units of local self-government. So nearly 50% of local self-government units have our special national concerns whether the first, second or third groups or mountainous areas. And I just think that this is how the state manages these units of local self-government, so a full profit tax returns to those units of local self-government. So, the state takes but afterwards returns it to local self-government units, which is about 314 million kuna a year, and also tax returns, so we know that the non-taxable part of the salary in those units of local self-government is much larger than 2400 and something in the first group is the same in each case and it amounts to around 550 million kuna annually. So, from that tax return title on an annual application that otherwise those who do not have special state care return those units that had a subscription to that tax. And instead of these units, it's back to the state. What I'm trying to say today is that it's always said here that the new law is the income source of municipal and city financing means the total profit has been taken by the state, that some cities and municipalities have lost. We know that in the Republic of Croatia I can say that I know of the three cities that have lost. I don't think any county, maybe Istria part of it, but I'm now going to say concrete information that we're finally not dealing with any wrong facts. The new law, which means part of the income tax, is the income of local self-government units. Here's the information from 2006 that cities had income of 2 billion 350 million, and that here in 2007 after the law was amended they had 3 billion and 670 million, which is in plus for 915 million kuna, Mršić. I think so, because it's always said that municipalities and cities lost a team. Also, as far as cities are concerned. As for the municipalities, the income of 817 million was income, and now the new billion and 220, or when the income tax and income tax tax paid by those units of local self-government, it is seen that the age in the municipalities grew from that title by 408 million kuna per year. The city of Zagreb has not won. There's a loss of 800 million as predicted. Data that's certainly true is down to 48 million, not 500 or 800 as much as they say. Also, the counties of that title, for example, in 2006, had a income of 981 million, and in 2007 a billion and 544 million, which is the difference of 290 million more. So when you take the income difference and you get it, so I say we take this. This is the data. These are the signs of facts that say that by amending the law, the units of local self-government have not lost those funds that are constantly being said to be in short supply. Here, because of all of this previously mentioned here, the HDZ Club will support amendments and additions to the Law on the financing of local self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11176	At 17.32, the time for registration was 10 minutes. We have two corrections. First Mr. Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11177	Dear Mr. President, fellow Gulić made an incorrect assumption when he said that the City of Zagreb lost with this tax redistribution of 48 million kuna. That's not true. In 2007 the exact amount lost by the City of Zagreb with the tax redistribution was 768 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11178	Thank you. Correction Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11179	Well, I'd do the same. My colleague said no county ever lost. One is, I know about one. It is Koprivnica-Kristevnica County because it was a rate of profitability above average. But you have an error in methodology, because you compare income and profit. You have to compare the effect that it would have been if it were an old law and what it is now that it's new. No, no, you're not. You're profit and income. How much was the increase in income compared to the profit that was in the previous year. See how much expenditure gets total. How much would it go to municipalities and cities, and then if they calculated that, then the total loss of local self-government in the last year would be one billion kuna redeployed to these. Some have won, but no, no. In total, local self-government received a billion kunas less than the old law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11180	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, two MPs. First Mr. Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11181	Thank you very much. Mr. President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Here are a few sentences on the Law amending the Income Tax Act. When you get a bill of law on the constituency bench, which aims at increasing the non-taxable share of income as one of the measures that tries to mitigate the effects of price growth and impacting living standards, you can hardly be against such a law. When we analyse what is happening in the last half year in Croatia, that is, that we are witnessing galloping inflation and that the real salaries of citizens in some months are falling. We must ask ourselves what we are prepared to do and what we have done to help the everyday life of our citizens. The situation in Croatia is difficult. Inflation was over 6% over the past month. Compared to the previous month, prices rise depending on the month to the month between half and one percent. The gross social product is about 3.7% higher compared to the previous year, which says that we are behind the plans we set at the beginning of the year and that we will not be able to cope with the inflation that is happening. Real wages are falling. For your salary every day you can buy less goods and services for yourself and your family. The average salary was about 5,000 kuna last month, but unfortunately 400,000 people in Croatia received a salary of less than 3000 kuna net. The union basket for a four-member family for the past month is 6200 kuna, which means that if a four-member has 2 employees they must earn at least 3100 kuna net in order to have money for their most basic needs. We're talking about over a million Croatian citizens. To keep from talking about the difficult situation in our country, I must point out that the SDP predicted this development at the beginning of the year and proposed three months ago two laws that could be contained. Of course, at that time we were incompetent, unprofessional, and we didn't know what we were proposing and what we were proposing. Today we see one of those laws that is very similar to the one that we made at the time. In these amendments to the law, we suggested that the untaxable base be 1,000 kuna and that the other classes remain the same. We also proposed extending the use of personal deductions for health services except for the taxpayer, as well as for members of his family's ropes and additional schooling benefits. Why did we propose these two laws? The second is a law that defines changes in contributions payments. Because we wanted the net salary to rise as high as possible and that should have been around 300 kuna on average Croatian salary, according to our calculations. This is where we come up with the biggest objection we have on this bill. Although we will support it, we think that these increases are insufficient and socially insensitive because they go to the highest level for those who have higher wages. tax classes increase proportionally by 1,000 kuna, as written in the law. Yes, and the promoter thinks it's unfair to see that he didn't give an analysis of how much the net wage of the workers will increase when, for example, there are 3 thousand kuna gross, as much for the one who has 4 thousand kuna gross, and how much for those who have over 30 thousand kuna gross. To help you, for workers with minimum wage, that increase is going to be 30 kuna. Do we find gentlemen uncomfortable in the proposal to mention that this is about 30 kuna a month? Anti-inflation measures, 3 liters of gasoline, 2.5 liters of oil, I don't want to comment on that any further. Do you know how much more pay someone who has 15 and more thousand kunas net will be? About 200 to 250 kuna. Is that fair? A worker on one side 30 kuna, and someone with 15 thousand kuna net 250 kuna. Fellow Members and colleagues, an urgent reform of the Law on Contributions is needed where Croatian workers' salaries should be disbursed. If it is possible to adjust our proposal from 3 months ago and give similar to what you have now given this income tax, please do this because Croatian citizens live worse every day. And please don't tell me there's no money in the state budget when it's being filled above all expectations. All these oil purchases and food purchases have contributed to a higher VAT budget than several billion kunas were planned. Now a few words about the pensioner. It is proposed to increase the personal deduction from a thousand 600 to a thousand 800 kuna and a maximum of 3 thousand to 3 thousand to 200 kuna. Do we even know how many pensioners will be able to use this increase in the first place, and how much are these amounts? Especially in light of the fact that 2 thousand kuna, that a pension of less than 2 thousand kuna receives 59% of Croatian pensioners. So more than half of those pensioners who are the most threatened won't be able to benefit from this privilege and their pension won't be any bigger than the last month. Because of all this I have now stated, the SDP club will, in the form of amendments, make some of its proposals to make this law fairer and fairer. We also think that this law must be just one of a series of laws and measures that this government must take to raise the standard of Croatian citizens and call on the government to start dealing more seriously with the problems of Croatian citizens' standards. So as in the example, as I said, and those suggestions we made two months ago, we won't have to wait long to see how the government will answer these questions because I suggest you, gentlemen, we have also given some solutions at this session in a series of our interpretations, and I suggest that no matter what differences there are between parties, we try together to find the best suggestions to help Croatian citizens live as much as possible. Finally, I would like to invite you to, as far as these ideas are concerned, do not consider whether they came from the position of SDP or HDZ or HSS, but consider that every day Croatian citizens need to be helped as much as possible, that they need to be improved living standards that are becoming more and more vulnerable every day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11182	Thank you. Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11183	Dear President, the Honorable State Secretary, it seems to me that at the time of the European Championship, the government has done another good dribble with local self-government. We have again received a law relating to the financing of units of local self-government without getting a single simulation number on that local self-government. It's a good thing we decided that these two laws, to unite the debate because when you read one explanation, then actually the real truth lies in this other law or in another explanation. He's hiding. But that's why you have to read well. And if you read the amendments to the law, be a kind colleague and let go. Play... So answer. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If you read the Income Tax Act, then it clearly states that, with the basis of what the local self-government units will remain without, there will be 60 million 320 thousand kuna county budgets and 354 million 260 thousand kuna city and municipal budgets. So that's the deficit that's going to arise with the basis of an increase in the non-taxable part of the pay. Now, the government is offering a rescue solution and says that 3% of the income tax hike is going to be for municipalities and cities and 0.5% for counties. This will affect the reduction of the Alignment Fund. The 3.5% that local self-government will receive are 237.4 million kuna, including what will be lost by the Fund itself. If by the end of the year there will be less than 237 million in the alignment fund, and in the units of local self-government 420 million, then somewhere there is 180 million and we can conclude that the increase in wages that is small, which my colleague Maras was talking about will go 50% to the burden of the state, and 50% to the burden of the budget of the units of local self-government. So, units of local self-government, municipalities, cities and counties will get 180 million kunas less into their budgets and again we will talk about the mathematics that we have heard earlier about how the latest amendments to the Tax on Profit and Income Act have been made by local self-government units. We who come from local self-government units claim that we're not because we can see how much it sits on our account, or how much it would sit on our account in the old system. And now, we don't even have to claim it or count it. Two arguments, these two laws make it very clear that 180 million kunas were retaken by units of local self-government. The government will make it very easy to make up for it, because only in this year or only in the first quarter of this year is about 275 million kuna more, with VAT based on the state budget due to the increase in the prices of derivatives, and another 350 million at an annual level, or take half of it, 170 million, will be paid to the state budget with the basis of an increase in electricity prices in Croatia. If you take that billion and this 350 million, it's far more than 60 million kunas that are going to lose the Alignment Fund or another 168 million kuna, as much as 3 plus 0.5% of local self-government units will get from base 3 plus 0.5%. And the government has done a great dribble where again all the burden of increasing citizens' salaries has shifted to local self-government units. The citizens here will be double cut off. One is because they will have less in local budgets and less will be able to implement those projects promised by the end of the year, otherwise it is very foreign to destabilise finances in local self-government units in half the financial year. And secondly, citizens pay the same cut with the base of the cut, because the tax base for the calculation of the cut will be less in those same budgets, since the cuts are also intended, the means of purpose, so they are being explored for a particular purpose, and these projects will not be realised either. We on the Committee on Local Self-Government have asked for a calculation per unit of local self-government, we have received a promise, unfortunately by now we have not received such calculations, and we would like to get concrete information in the future when it comes to the specific things that apply to local self-government. We here have information about how much they will gain or lose the Fund of Alignment, but we do not have how much they will gain or lose over 550 units of local regional (regional) self-government that we have in the Republic of Croatia. According to the argument, such loss is 180 million kuna. We at the SDP Club suggest that we do not argue over the bills without arguing over the bills let the government commit to all units of local self-government that will result in loss, the loss of compensation from the state budget. If we're wrong and there's no loss, there's no danger of a state budget. If the government or the ruling majority rejects our conclusion or our proposal, then the loss has or fears that this loss will be one that will not be compensated from the budget, the state budget. But there is no concern, because only with the basis of an increase in electricity and oil prices over a billion and 300 million kunas will be more than VAT in the state budget paid during this year. So the government has money, the government or the state budget can accept such a commitment. From accepting such an obligation, it will be clear whether we are right or right. If the government accepts our proposal means there is no loss, because there are no future commitments for the government, if it does not accept then the loss is not a billion 180 million, but at that point it is far greater. We are, of course, always concerned when the government or the ruling majority is doing something to the burden of units of local self-government, because our goal is to make units of local self-government fiscally strong, and that is ultimately in the government's programme, this law is contrary to the government's programme because this law means fiscally weaking of local self-government units and it does not go towards that, although it is very skillfully written in the coalition agreement, business revenues rather than tax revenues are increasing, so that business revenues are increasing, this law goes for even the incomes of the local self-government units compared to the state budget and tax revenues of the state budget to be reduced further. Therefore, a very concrete SDP club therefore suggests that the honesty of the government and their calculation is reflected in whether it will accept our proposal to the units of local self-government that will achieve a loss by the end of the year and for the next years, that loss will compensate or not compensate. We were talking about decentralisation and then we said when, if those were in the Parliament, if they remember, we said that this law is the total income tax we decentralize in local self-government units. It was also another spin, because there was 21% left in the Alignment Fund. Therefore, if we are declarative of this, there is no reason to decentralise the total income tax to units of local, regional (regional) self-government, so to municipalities, cities and counties, and that the Harmony Fund is accumulated from the increased incomes of massive purchases already in operation or which will be achieved in the future in the Republic of Croatia. Because we're talking about the oil price going up. The price of oil has increased from the elections to today. The oil was 9 kuna on the day of the election, today oil is a minimum of 12, and on average 14 kuna. On 9 kuna oil, on 9 kuna gross calculate how much VAT is, and calculate how much VAT is on 14 kuna oil, so you will see how much the revenue of the VAT-based budget is on that same oil. Because we count on the budget's income, the state budget, to be VAT. And he's stable. Unfortunately, we are not talking today about increasing the revenues of local self-government units, but certainly some price hike will happen today, resulting in an increase in VAT revenues to the state budget. And this is one of the partial measures, which should prevent the decline of citizens' standards that will happen, but on the other hand, the decline in citizens' standards is the result of an increase in prices of products and services. The increase in prices of products or services is an increase in the revenue of the VAT-based budget. Therefore, we are very honest with the ruling majority, and we offer you very sincerely to be honest with each other, that is to say that we are finally not doing something to the harm of local self-government units. And in the end, there were discussions and words about oil. So it's said when the price of a barrel of oil was $30, that it was then raised to 7 kuna, today when it's 130, it's 10 kuna. Ladies and gentlemen, when the price of Croatian oil was $30, the price of gasoline was 7 kuna. Today, when the price of Croatian oil is $30, the price of the same litre of gasoline produced from this Croatian oil is 10 kuna. Someone on Croatian oil earns money, and Croatian citizens do not benefit from it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11184	Thank you. We have, since one debate and another, three corrections to the incorrect allegations. First is Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11185	Thank you, Mr. President. Do I have to correct the incorrect allegations of one another or the other?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11186	One is a correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11187	One correction on both? Okay. Then I'll try to speed it up. So counterpart Maras incorrectly stated that the Croatian government did not respond in due time to the energy crisis. I know fellow SDP colleagues that you are angry with government reports that are positive, so that I do not quote them I will quote the World Bank's report on June this year, where the EU's economic report is 10 members, the new members who entered recently, and Croatia. So in this report, the economic report shows that all these countries are relatively well dealing with the consequences of the global financial crisis that has been expressed through the challenge of economic growth, inflation growth and stricter lending conditions, while the World Bank's chief economist for Croatia stands out. In Croatia, timely interventions in monetary and fiscal policies have reduced the transmission of global shocks, so the consequences such as inflation are more than 10%, such as in Bulgaria, Romania, which are members of the European Union. As for what Mr. Mršić said about cities and municipalities...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11188	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Ms. Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11189	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Here I would correct the incorrect, one of Mršić's incorrect allegations that the Law amending the Law on Income Taxation would destabilise the income of cities which is absolutely not true at all, because, in addition to this law, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of units of local and regional (regional) self-government, but I would also remind him when they were making a proposal to therefore increase that tax on, untaxable part of 1,900,00 that they then did not give such a proposal to the law as our Government, so at the same time also the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the financing of units local and that would be the first destabilising of city financing. Is that right, colleague Mršić?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11190	Thank you. Correction Mr. Representative Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11191	Mr. President, dear colleague Mršić said the following. We in the local self-government units knew we lost a new income tax. Well, here's what I'd like to say to my colleague Mršić that I'm from the local self-government unit, and I'm saying absolutely the opposite, and I'm saying we got more. A total of about 2.5 million kunas, with a mountain-mounted area of profit tax returns to us with automation and now you calculate, I don't think math can lie. Since there were two of them, can I talk to my colleagues, Maras? So, colleagues to Maras, then, on the claim that the state actually has little or very little regard for co-financing. [[Intruder: You can.]] A colleague Maras, 900 million kuna, will cost the state and local self-government an increase in the non-taxable share of salary from 1.600,00 to 1.800,00 kuna, structural support according to first estimates will be around 600 million, and for now the state will allocate around 166 million from the budget for co-financing of 20% of the electricity collection.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11192	Thank you. On behalf of the HSLS Club, HSU, Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11193	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, look, I wouldn't experience this debate in such a blocky context as it started to develop. I found this debate by my colleague Mršić very likable in a way he had an inspiring but provocative discussion. If I were the finance minister, I would accept a conclusion like this, because for me, the stability of the state budget is as important as the stability of the charge of the local budget, that there is no trauma and that there are no pluses and minuses. As far as we're concerned, if we're in favour of fair play otherwise in civil life, why don't we stand up for fair play here and if it's such an offer, I'd take it as a minister of finance, but unfortunately I'm not a minister of finance and I'll hardly be. Secondly, to be also precise, the truths for fellow Matušić is, coming out, he reacted to Mr Cain, but the truth is to say that Istra in continuity is really all these years the most isolated of the Croatian state and certainly the least large infrastructure projects in Istria are financed from the state budget and I understand and respect the frustration of my colleagues Caine because I share it and there should be serious shifts in the future. This is not, however, not a reason for the regular revenues of Istria from the budget to generalise and banalise. It is always forgotten to tell this speaker that the people of Istria are also receiving pensions and that all health services, i.e. health care services, are being paid. They're not small, they're certainly more than 250 million kuna a month. Therefore, it is also a significant item. I am truly for fair play and that when we say something to speak and show the whole picture, not to create false images or false perceptions among our citizens, listeners or viewers and those who follow us in any way. Let me move slowly on to concrete. Surely, the club of the Croatian Social and Liberal Party and the Croatian Retired Party will support these two laws not because we have fainted because they are good, but are quality shifts, shifts in this part of the legislation and are caused by corrections or changes in the labour market. In fact, the social partners did not agree on my regrets about a collective agreement that would establish a new minimum wage price because it would be a sign of the maturity of the social partners in the Republic of Croatia, but they agreed that the Government would do so with a minimum wage law and we, all of us here or in the most part, raised our hand for this law and we will respect it. The passing of this law would of course not be so if the untaxable part of the salary remained on the 1.600,00 kuna. Therefore, a correction of the untaxable part of the salary from a thousand 600 to a thousand, 800 kuna, has also proved necessary. I know the union demands were higher, but let's just say that's something we agreed on. It also states immediately that the need to change the law on the financing of local units, i.e. regional self-government and the assumption that this could go in some way, i.e. we will know after the fiscal year has passed, so we will be able to objectively speak about who has lost, but I believe or want to believe that the legislators of this law have gone with the idea that no one is to lose, or to achieve the goal that was to be done with the adoption of the Minimum Salary Act, i.e. to mitigate the difficult consequences of the increase in the cost of life from which all this has begun. I'm saying this is all expensively initiated by changes in the labour market. However, there is a large group of our citizens who are part of this labour market, unfortunately they use the fruits of their past work, but for us in Croatia, the foreigners of pensioners have passed the work and the current, i.e. living work is inextricably linked, and I am sorry that the initiative that I, as president of the Croatian party of pensioners, sent to Minister Shuker, did not accept the kind of work that was proposed to him, and the initiative that has now been translated into this, into the amendment that you have received on the bench means that you must not ignore and the relationship in which the users of the past work have been done by our pensioners so far. In fact, not without reason since 1996, they have found that the untaxed part of the pension will be 3 times higher than the non-taxable part of the salary. It's a sort of compensation for all the crap that's been going on around our pensions. This relationship gradually decreased and the last relationship that was established in 2004 was an untaxable part of the salary 1 versus 1,875, i.e. 3 thousand kuna. So a thousand 600 kuna untaxable part of the salary, three thousand kuna untaxed part of the pension. If this relationship were to be maintained, and that is the purpose of this amendment, then the untaxed part of the pension would be 3 thousand 375 kuna, and not 3 thousand 200 kuna, as proposed here, and that is the essence of the amendment that I have proposed to this law, that this relationship remain the same. It would be fair if this was agreed in 2004 on the latest amendments to the Income Tax Act to continue to apply, because with the mandate of each new Government does not start the world. Some rules must be respected from before. This means approximately to you that he is now paying 167 thousand pensioners, so that they are not so rich, that the average pensions are far below those 3,000 kuna, 167 thousand pensioners pay taxes, with this proposal from the Government 130 thousand will continue to pay taxes, and with what we have proposed, so what I have proposed as an amendment would pay 110 thousand pensioners with a higher income of 3000 375 kuna. I would remind you that larger pensions are, as a rule, if they are not under more favourable conditions or under special laws, more favourable pensions are the product of a long-term payment of certain amounts of contributions to the Mirovinski Fund and no one gives it to anyone, because more than two-thirds of the revenues of the state budget in relation to expenditures based on pensions is from the payment of the contributions of current workers. What is being offered here is not some big and spectacular solution to the cost of living. If this continues, we may strive with some solutions that, for example, are needed. Italy has had its time in application, which is a kind of addition to the expensive, because I remind myself of work and even the simplest worker should provide existence for himself and his family. These are some foundations of a social state that we must not deviate from, or even distance ourselves from. Therefore, I would be much happier if when we passed the Minimum Salary Act, if we had passed the Minimum Salary Act, so that there were ranges below which the inflow of contributions to the state budget could be as large as possible, that we had a reserve and an increase in pensions. This also offers no security for the pensioners, because they remain on twice the annual pension adjustments, and by no means, this system is not responsible for such growing inflation, i.e. this increase in the cost of life and I appeal to the Croatian government, i.e. I am looking for on behalf of the Croatian side of pensioners and pensioners emergency meetings with the prime minister because this situation is becoming unsustainable for Croatian pensioners. Today, when a coordination is carried out, it starts to pay off with 9 months late from the period in which it counts. At nine months. Therefore, we know the harmonisation of pensions that we had both monthly and consistent salary growth and mixed systems and, in accordance with the cost of living, I am just warning this House that the existence of Croatian pensioners is seriously threatened and that they cannot be forgotten in such projects. So the project remains open. More than a quarter of the project is not covered against the cost of living. Croatian pensioners are not covered with this. Therefore, there is no dispute that the Croatian party of pensioners has never put on us, and take the others, so we will never set up and we will vote for an increase in the untaxable part of the salary, but that is not all and let us be aware that this is not a done deal. I appeal to all of you to act in your own parties as well as to warn you of what I just told you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11194	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11195	Your Honor. A colleague of Hrelj incorrectly said and found that the trade unions failed to agree on a collective minimum wage contract, so the government passed a minimum wage law. Social partners who make up trade unions, employers and governments agreed that the way in which this collective contract and in 1998 the lowest wage was not good, it was harmful for that category of people who received that lowest wage more than most European Union countries have a minimum wage law to pass a minimum wage law that had nothing to do with the government. It's a social partners agreement. And they haven't talked about the collective contract at all. Let's get our colleague back to it... [[No serious country has a minimum wage law.]] [[The speaker is away from the microphone, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11196	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. He's gone. He's losing his right. Second Mrs. Representative, Dear Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11197	Thank you, Mr. President. So as the representative of our club said, we will support this law because the minimal shifts that go in favour of citizens should actually be adopted in Parliament. However, what the Proposer defines as the basic objective of this law, which is to mitigate the impact of energy prices, will not, in fact, be achieved by passing this law. After three years for the first time, we change the rate of tax deduction from 1600 to 1800 kuna, and in fact these are so minimal shifts for those lowest categories, workers with the lowest wage amounts that they can actually be lost in one month. And I'm going to say that because we first recorded in May after many years a high rate of 6.4% inflation since in the previous months it moved close to 6%. So in the last 2 months 5.7%. There are little prospects in view of the announcements of new energy collections, so electricity, probably by the end of the year and gas. Not to mention fuel that we don't practically have any influence on either. The price of food because of the increase in production costs in the agricultural activity. So by the end of the year, we can't expect the inflation rate to be less. We can only expect that it will remain at least at that level and that would be a great success. That inflation would grow signs were already in the second half of last year and we really almost seven, eight months didn't prepare well enough for what was expected of us. I'm going to say some of the data that is now fresh, which has been published by the State Statistics Institute, which is that in this period, which has now been followed so somewhere with a Mayn diet increased from the same period last year by 11%. I'm going to repeat the biggest price bump is actually just ahead of us. Real wages have been down for a few months now. And they're so very low. For the first three months, textiles have an average salary of 2 thousand 963 kuna. Wood industry without furniture 2 thousand 946, and furniture production 3 thousand 128. Let us remember that these are activities that will not achieve the lowest or minimum wage under the law that we adopted the other day. And if the minimum wage is that minimum survival, then the question is why should she be taxed? That's why we need three minimum salaries for that so-called union basket that means the bottom threshold for surviving the family. So, and such minimum wage, and on such minimum wage, tax will be paid. On the other hand, we also ask why other reliefs are not used. Why aren't other reliefs being introduced? We are constantly pointing out our minister of education, science and culture speaks of Croatia as a land of knowledge and we are not quite as well educated. We are not qualified for competitive production in Croatia, but especially not to compete in the European and world markets. Why don't we introduce tax reliefs to additional education? Learning foreign languages? For information descriptors? We don't see any of it changing this law. Well, if that's what you're suggesting, then that's a no. So I'm going to say that I'm glad that the government has now found an opportunity to solve that coup on the state budget through a reduction in income tax revenues. When we proposed two, three months ago and something like that, perhaps only with a slightly higher amount, so a hundred kunas more, then it was an impregnable obstacle. I'm saying I'm glad that in one part the government has accepted both our initiative and our argument and that it is still seen, it's not such a blow to the budget that it can't be accepted. However, it is really worrying about Croatian society that one government is taxing minimum wage and is scramblingly struggling not to tax capital gains. So if you earn a minimum salary of 300 or 400 kuna you will pay a 15% tax. So in that first, first tax class. But if you're going to get, like, 55 million kuna dividends as far as some of our entrepreneurs get, you won't pay any tax. It is really in this social situation in society simply unimaginable. Why is one government doing so and why it does not even want to open a debate at all to extend opportunities or tax opportunities and to finally apply the provision of our Constitution that everyone pays a tax according to their economic strength. I can't even pay taxes to the state's cashiers. And when it is said here that these great measures are being taken to mitigate energy prices and to the home budget, then here I will also use the World Bank report that says that it is impossible to subsidise the price of electricity in the way our government proposes. That it is necessary to do so through social programmes and social measures. In our interpretation, which we expect will be discussed and discussed at this session, we have suggested that the impact of energy prices on the family budget be resolved through a programme of social measures, which will only allow for subsidies to those who need it with certain criteria that must be established by this programme. So these are the government's minimum moves and they certainly won't get the effects, because for those of the lowest price increases, for example, bread will eat their full salary increase in a few days because they have a bigger tax relief. And as for this second law, which seeks to compensate for the lack of income on this basis to units of local and regional self-government, it is necessary to say that we must continue to think about how to go into financial decentralisation and leave or other words, yes, I said well leave more funds to municipalities, cities and counties. Because we are now income tax precisely because we are going to increase the share of municipalities and the county is reducing the part that relates to the balancings that also goes to those who need it. Unfortunately, Croatia is still regionally very different, very differently undeveloped and will need certain parts of Croatia to still be provided with financial assistance. Given that this year, the state is precisely because, on the basis of high price growth, it collects far more than VAT than it was planned, which collects the total part of the profit tax from that part of the tax revenue, will actually increase these tax countervailing funds for certain units of local and regional self-government, and indeed it would be necessary to return some of the profit tax back to where it is being realised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11198	Thank you. Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11199	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So I'm going to go back a little bit to a long-term income tax history that has existed in today's form since 1994, and as we've all been participants since then, so to date, there have been really many changes in terms of taxable income of personal income, tax rate schedules, number of reliefs and ways of taxing certain types of income. The amount of personal income increased faster than the average income, so that the share of the total income increased from 46% in '97. It grew about 55% in 2004. He's over 60% now, etc. Of the other reliefs until 2001, there was only one in 2003, and in 2003 we had 20 reliefs, which further reduced the tax base. In '97. For a year, we had two feet, which we know was 20 and 35 percent. In two and three feet 15, 25, 35, and then we added another fourth rate of 45% in 2003. All these changes reflected on the average tax rate, progressiveness, redistribution, income, and the complexity and cost of administration. The effect of the personal deduction also has a crucial meaning for the progressive tax on income while the effects of other reliefs are far less. I think we should take care of it together. However, this Proposal for a Law amending the Income Tax Act has positive effects, and in particular an increase in the net salary of workers without additional burden on employers' labour costs. By increasing personal deductions from 1600 to 1800 kuna with application, and I don't think we can look at it separately. We can only watch together. So, with the application of a new minimum salary of 2748 kuna as of 1 July this year, the net salary will rise from 1890 kuna to 2128 kuna or will rise by 238 kuna. Also, for 238 kuna, but it is for employees living in Zagreb where the highest cut is. So where the cut is smaller or where it's not at all there's going to be a bigger increase on that minimum wage. As far as the average salary level is concerned, it will increase 106 kuna. So, again, I'm talking about Zagreb where the cut is the biggest. Where the cut is smaller or where it is not there will be a greater increase. Surely we can now say whether it is enough or whether it is quality measures or whether there are sufficient measures to alleviate today’s social tensions. It's about talking, and clearly there we can outwit by tomorrow, and we'll all agree that it should be much more and that it's not normal enough. However, it is certain that this should also be seen in the sense of government measures that have announced that they will try to influence these social tensions with part of these measures. An increase of €238 will, however, reduce the cost of living at which we normally know the fall and the prices that you have mentioned there quite often. Most affected by energy prices, oil prices, there will be electricity now, etc. And other services that went up, and even local self-government units. I believe that the government will already have these other measures that have been announced to help socially endangered citizens, so that, with these measures already defined through this law here, this is also the minimum wage and the non-taxable share of income, that additional measures will also help those most socially vulnerable workers, with additional measures. There will be a clear and net pension increase for all pensioners with a pension of more than 3000 kuna. This will literally increase to 3200 kuna and such an increase will include 240287 pensioners in Croatia. Now, we can say that's a little bit, that maybe it needed more. And there you can certainly outwit, but those are facts. It is also important to point out that income tax revenues and income tax cuts will be reduced by local units, income will be reduced by local units due to an increase in personal deduction by some, as far as I see in Law 9.38% or that would be around 414.5 million kuna by the end of this year. However, it is important to stress that the state has predicted substituting sources of revenue. That's what you were already talking about in this sense that cities will increase the share of income tax by 3 percentage points, that the city of Zagreb will be 3.5, with the counties of 0.5 percentage points. Now, how much will they lose and what are mathematical calculations so far and that would be discussed, but time will show whether they will lose or not to lose units, local units. But in any case, I would like to point out, and it is important to stress that this very substitutor by substituting government action should not lead to any further increase in service prices in local units under the pretext that they have just lost through this income tax, so they must therefore raise new prices to certain municipal, especially municipal services. So I think that we should tell our fellow citizens in an open way when we all stand together so much that in some way we help our fellow citizens to relax that everyone, if they need to carry their share of the burden, but that in that part it will not do any harm to the citizens in order to increase prices in local self-government units as we have recently had the opportunity to see and experience how it was done. Well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11200	Thank you. We have one replica, Mr. Gordan Maras. Here you go. Two, actually. Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11201	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, we now see a new practice when the increase in net wages is trying to bind more laws to make it look bigger so that Mr. Kunst said that this law should be bound by a minimum wage law to make that pay look like it's growing more than it's going to increase by this law. I'd like you, Mr. Kunst, to see that you've raised your reply to the replica, can you say how much will be paid to people with minimum wage under this law? Do you know what that is? If you can answer that, and if you don't know by accident, I'll tell you after your debate, it's about three liters of gasoline, two and a half liters of oil, so you can figure out how much it is now. So I would ask you not to bind any more laws in order to somehow try to show the situation better than it is on the other hand, that minimum wage law, you've just argued that it's the agreement of all social partners, and now you've just argued as an initiative that is presented by the government to make nominal increases. Here, so I'm asking you to level your debates a little bit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11202	Thank you very much. So look, I don't know why, we can, I can understand you as an opposition that you'll criticise. It's normal and it's the work of the opposition, but I don't understand why you won't understand that even this Income Tax Act, and even the Minimum Payment Act, that these are measures that the government, normally in agreement with the social partner, and as far as I've heard, I think the Hrelja also said that this was an agreement with the social partners trying to influence precisely the measures, is trying to affect the social tensions of the citizens. And we don't have to, we can't close our eyes in front of that. We can act crazy and now we say, "Now the Income Tax Act, or that non-taxable deduction, will raise someone 30 kunas, not to diminish the importance." But we have to look at it in the context of pay, so that's settled at pay level. You don't get that deduction specifically. He gets paid by someone who gets paid at the end of the month in a way that pays him off somewhere. But since you, you know, pulled me out like this, I'm going to remind you of the new Income Tax Act in 2000, which introduced three tax rates, then 15, 25, 35 percent instead of two out of 20 and 35 percent. He went right in favor of those with higher wages. Workers at the time with the lowest salaries, minimum salaries, however you wish, were unable to use their tax reliefs, especially when a tax was introduced where the city of Zagreb was 18% with a tax which was an additional burden and additional taxation of citizens' salaries back then. I mean, let's not disrespect the current social partners' intensities, if you don't want the government to mention that word about trying to mitigate these measures of social tension, clearly that we can show it this way, but these are the facts. And in the end, the fact is that none of the representatives' clubs said they wouldn't support this law, but they all said they'd back it up, so that means something.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11203	Thank you. There's more replicas. Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11204	Well, here's a colleague of Kunst's. It's really interesting that figure you pulled out here. You see, the state can increase the price of its services, HEP can increase 20% of the price of its services, so it's done in 2005 so it's going to do it again. INA can go with the price of petrol produced from Croatian oil to the sky, whether, but local self-government should not increase, for example, the price of garbage collection service, which is driven by trucks that are tanked with that gasoline. Or should it not increase the price of a service that will be caused by a drastic increase in electricity prices because, for example, HEP does not allow local self-government to be in the daily-night tariff, so we pay electricity as a night tariff, and we use it for public lighting after midnight... because almost no one in Croatia uses that electricity, but we pay it at one average price and now it will go 20% up to us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we should not know where to cover it from. We should probably get something out of the sky that's kuna. And then, on the other hand, we'll still get 180 million kuna less in urban budgets, municipal and county budgets based on this law. I believe that local self-government will not, at least not until the election, raise the price of its services. And since you already mention your colleague Bandić, here I must tell you, those of you who live in Zagreb or around Zagreb. When Bandic drastically raised the price of water and sewage for citizens, it is 12 kuna and 83 limes for you. After that enormous collection, the price of water was lower than it was in Varazdin, which did not raise the price of water, but rather the price of water in Zadar, for example, rather than the price of water in Zadar, for example, where it was not raised, which means that in Varazdin that water was expensive years before you started to pay the price of water just as the price of water in Varazdin. So when you compare, then compare two measuring categories you know. You have to say you want barbaric water or Zagreb. It's the same water now.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11205	Thank you very much. Mr. Kunst, answer me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11206	Thank you very much. I think as far as the figures are concerned, that's what you're supposed to do in your party, you've got handsome figures like mine, but I'm glad you've seen this one. But as for this comparison of the price of oil, I don't know what you've been chasing, electricity, and I don't know what, so the price of oil is part of the global market of the world. You know very well that Croatia cannot influence this and it is meaningless to compare now that we are even talking about it. Second, as far as the electricity price is concerned, you know very well that the region of Croatia has had the lowest electricity price for years. Not that I'm defending the increase, I'm against the increase, but it couldn't be avoided. Otherwise, it would have to be compensated in some other way, so the price of electricity had to be increased. But I'm glad to hear from you that you said you were sure to expect it, which is precisely what I'm glad to say, on your part, since the City of Zagreb is in some way under the Social Democratic Party, that you won't raise the price and that you won't further influence the standard of citizens through increasing municipal services. But as far as water is concerned, it's no problem when I'm talking about it, the problem is that the infrastructure network hasn't been rehabilitated for years, which 60 or 50% of the water flows into the country, which nothing has done to get rid of it, but citizens are paying for nothing at all is the whole problem. And that's why we have more expensive and expensive water than we need to have at all. ... But it's not rational management. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11207	Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11208	Mr. President, I am correcting the inaccuracies of my colleague Kunst who said that an increase in the minimum wage for slightly more than 240 kuna will also cause an increase in the average salary of more than 120 kuna, kuna plus minus. It's simply impossible because a minimum wage increase will be applied to some 120 thousand people who have minimum salaries, and when you turn it into an average of all millions and 400 thousand employees, it's impossible to raise that kind of average salary, or I'd be happy to buy my colleague Kunsta dinner if that happens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11209	Thank you. Let's move on. Mr. Representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11210	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here Mr. Mršić talked a lot about the power collection and we were fortunately lighted in this part of the hall, and now it is shining on us and it might not be bad for us to turn off the light in the hall to show by example that we are able to save our kuna, but a good joke aside. What you should look at in the context of these two laws is the following. In the 2nd month, with the proposal of two laws, we proposed the immediate mitigation of inflationary pressure that would allow people to have an additional 300 kuna net wage. That didn't go away. This proposal for a law that has come has enabled the mitigation of inflationary pressure, although it is a difficult word to pronounce, which will allow people with gross salary of 4 thousand kunas to increase their net salary of 30 kuna. We proposed an increase of 300 kuna in the 2nd month, now a proposal has come for 30 kuna and it is good to have some proposals coming up. I'm glad that part of our proposal, which was then sent into the procedure, was partly consumed by this proposal. It is good, even after a part of the proposal coming out of the opposition is consumed even later in the form of a proposal coming from the ruling majority, or coming from the government. However, what is bad is that in the last 4-5 months everything has gathered. He's got extra gas. It's not 9th, it's 10th. She collected food, collected electricity, collected services. That's what's wrong. In addition, what's even worse and what needs to be taken care of is that the full cost of this law will be financed by local self-government units. How? Simple. By increasing personal deductions from 1.600,00 to 1.800,00 kuna county plus cities and municipalities will total income less than 420 million kuna, which is also in reason. On the other hand, 170 million kuna will be compensated to counties, cities and municipalities with the basis of an increase in the percentage of income tax. 170 million kuna. This means that the total units of local self-government will lose, not as Mršić said, I have to fix it a little bit, 180 million kuna, but 250 million kuna. Otherwise, his colleague Mršić accounts well with an old deduction, has a calculator in his head, so he included 1.600,00 kuna and was increased to 1.800,00 kuna and therefore did not include these additional 70 million kunas. So it's 250 million kuna, not 180 million kuna. On the other hand, the total cost to be compensated for the State Budget Alignment Fund amounts to 237 million kuna. It means not only will the entire law, i.e. A package of two laws is financed by local self-government units than more than 20 million kunas will remain in the state budget. When I asked at the Development Committee's meeting does this mean that this is why you will, with the rebalance of the state budget, anticipate the expenditure side of the Enabling Fund? Do you think you'll be able to give more funds to the Equivalence Fund? I've been told that it won't change, that it's at the level of a billion and 600 million kuna, and that's how it's going to stay. But what's still wrong with that proposal. The city of Zagreb, Rijeka, Istria, more developed parts of Croatia will lose, but will not lose as much as undeveloped parts of Croatia will. And precisely because undeveloped parts of Croatia will be where the average salary is lower, where the average salary is less than the average salary on which and on the basis of which this calculation is made will earn much less. Where there's a surplus like that. In the City of Zagreb, there will be fewer revenues but still not less than those of the type Slavonski Brod, type Petrinja, type Sisak. And on that side, it would be extremely important for the state budget to come through the rebalancing of the increased allocation to the Balance Fund, which means more than a billion and 600 thousand kuna. And I have to admit that I stayed a little shocked when they told me that part and that item wouldn't change. And especially from the basis that the state will base, i.e. with value added tax and through the collection of all products of services, electricity, gasoline to be made in this year of 2 billion, and perhaps even more of the additional VAT, if there is more here it will be good for the state, but some of that money should be returned to local self-government units. And in fact, this when a colleague Mršić talked about financial dribbling is de facto showing up as a financial dribbling. We had that tax law on redistributing profits into units of local self-government where when summed up, that's the data, when you take calculations on two models, first and second, are units of local self-government in total regardless of what is inside the City of Zagreb, remaining for a billion and a half kuna in a minus. With this law is 250 million kunas are once again down. I don't know if there's gonna be any more income tax laws and taxation-related ones that won't go to the expense of local self-government units, and that's why I'd really like to respect that conclusion that Mršić made on behalf of the club, which is that those units of local self-government that lose, and I think there'll be between 70% and 90% of them to make up for budget timemark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11211	Thank you. We have a correction, Mr Tomislav Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11212	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to correct the incorrect allegations of a colleague who says that the burden of law enforcement will fall on the units of local self-government. It's just not true and it's mathematical to easily calculate. We also listened to the same story in 2006 when an amendment to the Income Tax Act was adopted, when the share of cities was increased to 52% and in 2007 it was best confirmed. For example, the city from which I come, Valpova, 5 million kuna, was more achieved in the city's budget than income tax, which is more than 1/3 of the city's total budget, and the profit tax that was about half a million kuna was lost. So, figure out who's here to win? The case may be different in Zagreb, but the fact that profit tax is not fair to pay on the basis of the company's headquarters, because INA, Croatia Insurance, Business Bank business and profits are realised throughout Croatia, and not in Zagreb, and are paid according to place, or paid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11213	Thank you. Correction of Mrs. Representative Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11214	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here you would correct a respected colleague when he said that the City of Zagreb lost 500 million kuna by redistributing income tax. Now I'll tell you. It's just one thing, it's true, that it was only one alibi for you in the City of Zagreb, and in all of Croatia, to raise astronomical prices for the utility, it was your alibi, because you had no other reason, so you called for that redistribution of the profit tax. The water in the City of Zagreb collected 200%, if you didn't know. The waste of garbage was raised by 80%, if you didn't know, etc. As for water supply lines that are like a sieve of hollows, as far as new waterways are concerned, as far as the sewerage canals in the City of Zagreb are concerned, you are not absolutely one kilometer away from this large collection that you have caused and you have caused inflation, think about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11215	Thank you very much. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11216	Mr. President, Article 210 has been injured. Rules of procedure, or 209th pardon. Mrs. Bozica Šolić, she did not correct the incorrect allegations but said that exactly what Mr. Bernardić said, and then she gave us a series of reviews about the situation in Zagreb which she, as she sees it, and I know that here is Mr. Bernardić and I will give Mrs. Šolić a present for her birthday when she is, and it will be... No, no. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It'll be a nice gift to you. So I'm asking you to sort of protect us from replicas under the pretext that they are correcters of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11217	I should also protect MPs from incorrectly lifting the scoreboard for breaching the Rules of Procedure and also giving speeches. That's what I liberally understand until the amendments to the Rules of Procedure. [[Intruder: But Mrs. Šolić said it was true.]] Let's move on. All right, gentlemen. Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. It is up to Madam Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11218	Thank you, Mr. President, the honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The World Bank's report several months ago speaks of poverty knocking on the door of Croatia. The truth is, Croatian authorities have no such data in any segment, how many citizens are on the poverty line. They calculated exactly how much a man has to eat a day, get his calories inside, otherwise, it seems to me 560 calories, below that is the poverty line. It has also been found that many people in Croatia, it is determined by the World Bank and these are world hate enemies, remember what you called them in opposition times. So they warn of that fact, and also that citizens to ensure some as many standards not to themselves but to their loved ones, children, are just saving on the elementary things of household, hygiene and nutrition. It's serious stuff, and I think with a bill like this, it's too bad you didn't adopt it in time a few months ago when the SDP club proposed similar to this clue, you copied it, but it seems to you that it's too much of a deduction as the SDP club immediately reacted when it saw the first month or two days that the government didn't react to a drastically reducing standard that collapses almost every day. That bauk inflation threatens Croatia was also warned by the very generous governor of the National Bank, Mr Rohatinski. He said that at exactly the right time, but then that didn't come up well, it was thought that it was appropriate to talk about such things in the elections. But the truth should always be ready and I think that it was already responding to these and such warnings, that they would already have some kind of fire measures to have time to design strategies and production, industrial production and energy, all that can't be done from today to tomorrow, it's been a long time, now it's coming on the charge, but it still looks like it's getting in, or starting to solve this system problem, because these measures can react from month to month, but when we get into an inflationary whirlwind, in an inflation spiral, then these measures will certainly become like a drop in the sea. The insurance here was said by this law as well as the social partners as we have passed the Minimum Salary Act, and did we secure the payment of that minimum wage. In 2003, the SDP constantly, we did not forget to have a stipple of non-payments to the worker, whether she is such or such, minimal or slightly larger. After removing that novel on several occasions, we wanted to react consciously to the situation that the naked letter on paper, that the worker only has the right to pay, does not give him a guarantee to make a profit. All services, all that has been given under the legal protection of this country, but the state, our government does not keep realizing that the payout of a worker is such a social hazard that it is not just a common theft, that it is povertying not that worker, that it is povertying his family and that the worker who is working is becoming a social case and it is simply uncomprehensible to assume on himself that part of the responsibility and the cakes that rob such irresponsible people who cannot pay them. So when they don't pay them that and bigger, how can they guarantee that they will pay the minimum wage? Well, only in Croatia is that possible. I don't know why the government is protecting anyone. But we need to take a step further, that no matter what, what company is one special legal person independent of the owner, or from a natural person has its own legal... has its turn, its existence, development and liquidation, that persons who have not paid their wages not only correspond to the responsible persons with the property of the company, but with their personal property. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's how it is in social countries. It is not possible for an employer to buy things, not only and rich in his company, but also in person living comfortably, it is so evident and that he did not pay for the worker and that nothing happens to anyone. We had this avet in the '90s, 170 thousand people in Croatia worked, didn't get paid. That was normal. We were a strange country then. People who didn't work were getting some pay, fees, those who worked didn't get paid. We reduced from 2000 to I don't know in 2004 and later, that's something, it seems to me that the whole year 2004 was about 32,000. We have recently announced ourselves in 2003 when the Penal Code was nominated, and when they heard that they could go to prison, of course, which would have damaged the reputation of prominent citizens, not because it would have hit them a lot and materially, we had an automatic, so the law was not yet in force a drastic change in the situation to reduce the number of people, workers who worked and did not get paid. Work and not get paid and justify difficulties in companies, bankruptcys, etc. I can be really complicated things. But you have a situation where a worker doesn't get paid for no reason or explanation. You might wonder why I'm only talking about this subject. Because we didn't secure it thoroughly. This is where the government says it gives the right. This is the offer of yus, giving naked rights, and there is no mechanism and persistently refuses to solve certain things by other laws in order for what is offered to people to really be brought to life. Is it possible, well, as long as we've somehow been such a standard in recent years, but today, the government can tolerate at this point that people don't get paid, when pay can hardly meet all these obligations, additions, economic growth of 4 and a half percent, very small, this is also what the World Bank is reporting to me today. We don't need to be comforted by what she says that we have these kind of monetary systems, the monetary system that we're going to get through. We'll get through it, but for whose burden? Who's gonna pay for that trouble we found ourselves in? And we didn't meet by accident. We can't just pull a parallel, because that's how we end up underestimating the government. Every time we deny her responsibility and not just to the collective body, but to any individual, we deny him as a person. Well, it can't be an abstract global market guilty of Milan Bandic, and below that, between them, the empty space. Nobody and nothing. It can't be. We just know it's not like that. Therefore, what we do is make this law as much as it will get its fullness and for the first time, as much as it helps our citizens, as well as the Minimum Salary Act. Let's see and in some ways encourage the government to come out as soon as possible with a strategy of industrial policy, production. Here we are going to help, that's something that the SDP has long notified to the public, something that is real, something that citizens really believe is possible and it is possible to achieve. Otherwise, only as colleagues have said only to fire measures or we will not get the intensity of what the promoter may have thought could stop the troubles that came from Croatia, and first of all they will feel the most vulnerable and weak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11219	Thank you. Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11220	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, members and representatives of the government. Of course, when discussing these two laws, it is important to talk about the timelyness and actions of the government and the timelyity of our discussions. And listening to my colleagues today, it is evident that we will not agree on what it means to intervene in good time by the government or by the Croatian Parliament. Many of us have known for more than a year that the price of oil will exceed $100 per barrel. It's been over a year. A good part of us also knows that we import electricity, that a good part of the world's electricity is produced on the basis of the oil and diesel power plants. We also know that in Croatia it is a situation. Therefore, we also know very well that the price will rise and, as a colleague said a few years ago, electricity prices are well below the European market average. We'd better not talk about the price of gas. Everyone's warning us, it's a familiar fact. Let's get away from her. Far below the economic price, well below the average. Therefore, energy costs in Croatia must rise. It is evident that compliance with European legislation, harmonisation with the European market will be seen to be an increase in energy costs. So the fact that we know very well, I'd say more than a year. The food price started to rise at the beginning of the year and very clear messages are not instantaneous growth. The problem is that the Far East increases food consumption, which is insufficient food production as is the European Community,... the world land agriculturally used for industrial plants and not for food production and we have a permanent food shortage. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That was known at the beginning of the year. So these are all stories that need to be driven by both the government and this Parliament to the current reaction. But remember the programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in January discussed at this Croatian Assembly did not even deal with living standards, he did not even deal with how to produce energy in Croatia. He wasn't into it. Those were the failures of that program. So we could have intervened before. In the last month and a half, most government orders you save energy because it will be an economic price and expensive and of course remains a problem we cannot save on food because indeed the average salary suggests that food is not thrown. Even though the government's messages are prices in Europe, they will also be in Croatia. But whether that message by the Government of European Salaries is twice as big, two and a half times bigger than the Croatians should grow with salaries. And you see it is evident that if you estimate that energy and the problem of food production in the world is one of the reasons that will cause you to rise prices and that you cannot have a significant impact on the reduction of this remains the question of whether we could consider how pay should be raised? How are they supposed to raise wages? You see the message that now we're only talking about the untaxable part of the pay shows that at least workers with low wages who pay 15% tax. At least they win. 30 to 50, 60 kuna. So again those who I would say the least paid get little. Even if we compare now that in the last session we have raised the minimum wage, it turns out that at 300 kuna minimum salaries they have to pay the tax. Now we're wondering what's with the evenness of filling the budget? What about a fair social policy to burden those who have, and not who don't? We are still discussing today that more will be given to one who has a higher salary. They'll get more with this solution of ours today. And yet we're not dealing with the socially endangered population. With that part of Croatia's citizens who pay their average wages to have twice as much, they can't provide for the necessary basket. That one and a half average salary is not enough to cover the average baskets of a four-member family. These are the problems we all have to deal with. And that's why the SDP went with the proposal in February if we can't influence energy, we need to think about the cost of food growth. But it's not just that we're defining a new non-taxable part. Salary growth because we need to take down part of the contributions that are a burden on gross wages. We suggested it in February. We were ridiculed by a representative of the government. And you'll see that we'll come to the fact that gross wages can't grow because if gross wages rise, we'll run around in an honorary circle. Salary growth, inflation growth, salary growth, inflation growth, and we're just spinning around in circles. So we have to have a net salary growth without growing gross wages. Employers have made it clear that they cannot bear the burden of wage increases. Are we going to talk about employers that they can't pay contributions, that they're getting more and more blocked and that they're slowly falling into danger and pay. It's all going to happen to you. It's present. Look at the number of continuous increases in those in the blockade. And that's because of the non-payment of contributions. So that's the problem. The economy won't accept a higher gross salary. But you realize that the worker... No longer with his net salary is able to settle his life obligations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we have to think about discharging gross wages. We need to reopen discussions on health contributions and a fairer distribution. We say again, gentlemen, a worker cannot pay only for the health care system. We need to find new sources. 15 days ago from the Ministry of Thinking we'll start taxing raw agricultural land again. It takes both buildings and property in a conversion that is not in function to tax. Yeah, the Constitutional Court collapsed, but what did he say? We don't agree to go into the budget without purpose. Well, we have a solution. We're short on health care. Let's go again with taxation of fully immobilized assets, property of speculators living well, waiting, not opening jobs, not putting property into operation, agricultural land collapse, tax for health contributions. To make a contribution. Why? We're short on health care money, and we're cutting our wages short. So that's where we can't agree. We're trying to talk about quality measures. Well, we can't say that the salaries of the Republic of Croatia are even close to the average salaries of Europe. So we will also have energy and food and I would say the cost of living in Croatia at Europe level, but pay half as much. No, we just have to increase them. When we talk about Croatia's salaries, we talk about net wages, because the problem is too many contributions, and that's the topic we say we need to open a debate. It's a topic where we run away from that debate. We tried to open in February. This law, which speaks only of the non-taxable part, will apply from next month. Gentlemen, we won't solve the problem. They're gonna jump us again. Optimists are the ones who think we're going to stay for 6% inflation, the optimists. It'll be bigger. We can't do it without the pay raise, and we can't have a raise in gross wages. Here, that's why we say it's not timely, we're late, and this solution will be too late, not enough, let's try to change something.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11221	Thank you. Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11222	I would like to thank Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, dear secretary of state. It is the right to say the freedom and duty of each Government to propose amendments to the Income Tax Act as well as to any other law which determines who will receive more money, who will take less money and put it into the state budget and who will receive more, who will receive less money from that state budget. The right to propose is certainly opposition. This right SDP club was used at last session when we proposed amendments to the same law. Mr. Kunst was well aware that no club had discussed it now, so he said he wouldn't accept this law. Unfortunately, when we proposed a similar law, perhaps even better, there must have been better clubs that didn't accept it. It was our attempt to improve citizens' standards, our contribution, and especially that part of the citizens with the lowest incomes. Our proposal for an amendment gave the most to citizens with the lowest income. This proposal gives the most to those with the highest income in both absolute and relative amounts. Writing this law doesn't take much time. He only has two articles. That is why I believe that this time that is neutral in writing because the law is somewhat smaller that time could be used to consider a better distribution of money that would otherwise not change this law go to the state budget, or to the budget of the units of local self-government. But that's what we're different about. This distinguishes our political programmes, and in this we differ both when we are in power and when we are in opposition. What changed since 1.1.2005 more than 3 years ago when the applicable law came into force, that is, when the untaxable part of the salary was, and now it is still 1600 kuna. For then, 1600 kunas could be bought more than for 1800 kunas today. It's very simple to calculate. Three years inflation three, four percent, and when all of this is summed up, it comes to about the same amount. But certainly these 1800 kunas are worth less today than 1500 kuna eight years ago when the last personal deduction was changed, the untaxable part of the salary. I remind you, that's when the contributions were reduced, which had a direct effect and at the height of the salary. This increase in the non-taxable part has been analized by inflation. There's no such thing as increased social sensitivity. You can only talk about some kind of cold drive in Lear or about a regular in alleged signs of social sensitivity rather than a heightened one. They are not right about those colleagues who wonder why under this item of the agenda the price of gasoline, the price of electricity, the price of food products is discussed. They are not right to claim that some other government measures make the situation easier for those with the lowest incomes. I would like to refer to the above-mentioned agreement with HEP on household subsidies with minimum consumption. This is not also the most impoverished subsidy because it is not always the least spent by those who are the poorest. In particular, it turns out from the neighborhood that the state will subsidise electricity to those who come to their holiday homes in two to three summer months, which are certainly not the poorer parts of society. And not to those who are in their house all year round, who are heated by electricity and who certainly belong to the poorer parts of society. In particular, it is unfair to take such a measure in view of the fact that households in Dalmatia and in the islands are heated with electricity and will be affected even more if such a measure remains. For this reason, we need to reconsider how to protect the poorest from the collection of electricity? As far as the gas collection is concerned, since we've heard all kinds of ideas about how, that we have to be fed up, that we have to spend less, and so on, I'm surprised that no one remembered to invite citizens to always buy fuel for a hundred kunas, because then they wouldn't feel the addition. It's always a hundred kunas. The fact is that the state is the second largest profiter, i.e. the winner of the purchase of gasoline, and that nothing has been done yet. The third problem is food collection. I will use a minute to warn about the problem we are facing in small places on islands, which is to trade mixed goods, which are usually the only shops in these places, small places are closed due to non-profitability and that the population that is mostly older in life is nowhere to buy bread and basic foods within a ten-mile radius. Of course, municipalities and cities are not able to finance trade yet, but I think the county might do so within some other projects. The consumer basket on islands due to transport costs is always slightly bigger than in Split, for example. And this Bill of Law of the Local Self-Government Unit on the Islands stands out, but not the citizens yet. I think that in some other changes, a smaller redistribution could be made, so one part of the tax that remains for local self-government units on the islands is left to the people who live there. So there's some sort of solution here. I believe that this idea is certainly more thorough than the one about the collection of electricity 54%, which was the proposal of HEP. In the end, I would like to refer to the educational correction that MP Cosic, he is gone and there is no Mr Vincelj, who was referred to by fellow Vincelja as not spending kilowatts but kilowatts. I appreciate this contribution to increasing the level of physics among our representatives, but we have heard many times the term redistribution that weighs 483 million kuna. As this is said about weight, I do not expect anyone else to say that weight is measured in newtons according to physical rules, but it should not be Newton or Einstein to conclude that this law will allow for an increase in wages of the poorest of 30 kunas and there is no need for these crumbs to be further glorified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11223	Thank you. The individual debate is closed. On behalf of the SDP Club, five minutes, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11224	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and fellow representatives, representatives of the government. Here, what to say after this debate except that it is very likely that all clubs such as someone has already noticed will support a law that contributes at least to a small increase in the standard of Croatian citizens, so the SDP club will also support this law. What I wanted to warn you, and what I already said in the opening part of the exhibition, is that the situation in which our citizen is in Croatia today is not easy and that the Government is, in some ways, taxing, which has and the budget is well enough from these purchases of fuel prices, food products have an obligation in some way to help Croatian citizens. As far as the SDP is concerned, and we have, at the beginning of this year, been copying this problem, we have proposed two laws that, here today, one has been modified by the motions of the Government of Croatia, and in some ways we will try to help the proposals to find as good a solution as possible for Croatian citizens to feel the inflationary pressure that is at work this year. One of the colleagues mentioned well earlier, unfortunately today in Croatia we are at 27% of European salary and prices, consumer prices that are being analysed are about 70%. It is simply unsustainable for Croatian citizens and we have to help some things change in some ways. The fact is that all European countries have the impact of world trends, i.e. inflation happens not only in Croatia but also in all European countries and in the whole world, but the message and ability of each government is seen in how we deal with these effects. I think we haven't shown enough here, and I hope that some things will change, and also by taking certain measures and by adopting certain laws that will improve the standard of Croatian citizens. On the other hand, here we are today to show you as a majority, we three months ago mean we gave a very similar law in the procedure that is now being adopted. But to shorten the time, we have given another amendment to this law, which is one article of amending the law to change one injustice, and I hope you will accept it on Friday at the vote because it is unfair not to accept it in a tax deduction that when paying for the health services of family members you support and that these suggestions as regards the cost of schooling tax are still accepted. So here he is, perhaps, able to show a better position from the authorities so that he can accept constructive proposals of opposition and put it into his laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11225	Thank you. And finally on behalf of the promoter, Zdravko Maric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11226	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here, I'm glad that it's this constructive, in some parts perhaps a little less constructive debate will certainly show that, if not all of us then a large majority of clubs will support the changes of these two laws. I'd just briefly look back at the part of the debate and say a few just observations from the government. Therefore, regarding these amendments and additions to the law, before tax on income, and then on the financing of units of local and regional self-government. These changes are in line with the government's programme, absolutely all the simulations we've been doing, the analyses we've done actually show that the direction of the fiscal policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia will in no way be compromised either this year or the next. Also, I would refer only to the argument and debate concerning the budgets of units of local and regional or regional self-government about how much who, I would say under quotes "will lose". Our simulations for this year show that no single unit of local regional self-government will lose in relation to what was planned for 2008. In fact, the big one, in fact, you'll get everything, of course depending on the situation of each of them. These increases in income will be slightly higher, or smaller. In any case, I'd also look back on the Alignment Fund. So in my opening speech, I also said that the state is reducing the share of the Alignment Fund by 21 to 17.5%, so 3.5 percentage points. However, the total level of expenditure, i.e. the total level of funding in the Compensation Fund for this year, will not change. The bill also states that this difference of resources will actually be removed from the other revenues of the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11227	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide when the conditions are met. Tomorrow at 9:30 we continue the session of the agenda of the draft law on contributions with the Final Bill and several of these financial ones, so to speak the law below. Thank you very much and pleasantly. Final proposal for a law amending the Income Tax Act. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. Number 98. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, legislator Silvano Hrelja and SDP Representatives' Club. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to show up on the amendments. Minister of Finance Mr. Ivan Shuker First, the amendment of the Legislative Committee to Article 1? [[Thank you very much, sir.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11229	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11230	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Second, on Article 2?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11231	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11232	It also becomes an integral part of the proposal. Mr Silvan Hrelje's representative continues to be the amendment at the end of Article 1. "number 3200 is replaced by number 3375"?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11233	It is not accepted for the reason that the non-taxable part of the income is increasing nominally and not gradually, and therefore we propose that the Government propose that 200 kunas increase the untaxable share of income used by pensioners.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11234	Thank you. Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11235	Mr. Minister, I do not dispute your finding that the government has proposed a nominal increase of 200 kuna. But in my discussion, I said that the relationship between the non-taxable part of the salary and the non-taxable part of the pension that has been so far changed because so far it was ratio 1 to 875, and now the relationship is shrinking. And the ratio of the non-taxable part of the salary and the non-taxable part of the pension was agreed in 2004. You've been involved in this, and it's not for no reason agreed as it is. So I understand your arguments and respect them. Please, I'm fighting for my amendment. I'm asking you to vote for him.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11236	Thank you. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. And the amendment of the SDP Representatives Club to Article 1?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11237	The government does not accept for the simple reason why the proposed changes proposed by the SDP Representatives Club are regulated by some other articles. Therefore, these reliefs cannot be regulated by increasing or reducing personal deductions, but are regulated by other articles of the Income Tax Act and are related to the costs recognised to citizens when submitting a tax application. For this reason, we cannot accept this amendment because personal deductions are regulated by some other deductions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11238	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, go ahead. Mrs. Dear Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11239	For a long time and our own legal initiatives, we are asking for additional reliefs. First, it applies if, to health care, health insurance costs for dependent members by whom the taxpayer has and a relief from tax accounting, and as we like to call ourselves a knowledge country and how it is necessary for those who are in a working relationship and have completed compulsory education to acquire new knowledge, we suggest that, as a relief in the annual tax account, the cost of paying postgraduate studies, learning foreign languages, information descriptors are also taken. And I ask that we vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-18-0.u11240	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I do, thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I am voting on the final draft law amending the Income Tax Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. Yes, here's the score. This law was adopted by 85 votes for and 3 abstentions. My colleagues and colleagues, good morning to everyone. We continue with the session and move on to - Final proposal of the Law on Contributions, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 89 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure unites the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Health and Social Care, the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, the Committee on Local, Regional and Regional Self-Government and the Committee on Development and Reconstruction. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and by representative Dragutin Lesar. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Mr. Ivica Mladneo, Director of the Tax Administration and Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
