ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15902	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Although the legal proposals that you will discuss here today are very clear and the changes are not great. Let me, however, explain in a few words the circumstances resulting from these proposals and the reasons for the adoption of these proposals. As part of the negotiations for the accession of the European Union in Chapter 19 and Chapter 3, the Republic of Croatia has part of the field of health care and has already been at the debate of the establishment of the Croatian Institute of Health and Safety at Work, and the adoption and submission of a proposal for the Croatian Health Insurance and Health Insurance Institute and the Health Insurance Act when it is said that the first amendment of the law and the part will be introduced into the Health Protection Act, namely the problem of the health of workers and the safety of workers as set out in the examples in the European Union, which is part of Chapter 19 – Social Policy and Employment. Thus, only part of the amendments continue in this proposal because after the adoption of this legislative proposal, the establishment of the Croatian Institute for Health Protection and Safety at Work will be joined. The other problem to be addressed is the problem of Chapter 3. Chapter 3 refers to the right of establishment and freedom to provide services. In all European Union countries, there are professions that have the same way of obtaining qualifications, and the same way that qualifications are acquired has equal expertise and, according to this same expertise, professions in the European Union also have so-called professions in the European Union. automatic recognition, which means that a citizen in any country and the European Union who has passed that education system has the right to work under the same circumstances in any European Union country in the same conditions and in the same way. For this reason, there was a need to change certain things in the legislation of the Republic of Croatia, but also not only administratively in the law, and this may be the key to this argument and what should be said to the general public, but also in the system of full education and education to change certain things. It is therefore a traineeship and a professional exam. A lot has already been announced in the media that a traineeship will be lifted in the Republic of Croatia, and has been constantly speculating about the time when this thing will happen, when the internship will end, when it will not be lifted. For the first time, it can also be made clear from this payphone, it is certain that it will be abolished and it is certain that it will be as the legislative proposal is going today, if not before for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia on the day of Croatia's accession to the European Union, and for the citizens of the European Union on the same day. It means equality between the citizens of the Croatian and the citizens of the European Union here in that part is exactly the same. But what's it gonna be? As already done in some European Union countries, part of the traineeship where professional competences and professional exams are acquired, will be moved from the postgraduate system to the undergraduate system, means to the qualification system during regular training for doctors at the medical school, to dentists, and to nurses during schooling for nurses. By doing so, the transfer of qualifications is not lost to quality, and this has proved to be great in several European Union countries, but a prerequisite is being created that there are no longer any additional obstacles and additional evidence of knowledge and expertise, but people who graduate from their degrees acquire their profession and the only obstacle in this profession of self-employed work is still obtaining a permit for independent work from the competent chamber. The permits granted by the chambers today are always on certain conditions and these conditions allow us to change this second change that is being made in all these legal proposals, which is a change in the system of proof of Croatian language knowledge. What is proposed in this legislative proposal is that the knowledge of the Croatian language which remains, therefore, a legal category in part that every citizen of the European Union who comes to work in Croatia has an absolute legal category of need for Croatian language knowledge, but what is said to mean that this will mean enough for communication to fall within the basic skills of both doctors and all health professionals, that part will be worked at the level of the chamber in the approval of the permit for independent work so that, in accordance with these changes and the competent chambers, it will comply with its regulations within three months when this law enters into force. I think in this part this is one reason enough, and this message that I may have been a little wider, but that it was necessary to know clearly and loudly and to send a message wherever it is necessary, that the Republic of Croatia will not have a reduction in competence and knowledge by abolishing the traineeship and abolishing the expert exam, but that the abolition of the traineeship and professional performance will occur when these qualifications are obtained during training in the regular education system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15903	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. The Health and Social Care Committee, Mr. Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15904	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Health and Social Care Committee has discussed this group of laws individually, but I will present a summary now on the basis of a decision to discuss six laws jointly. Therefore, he argued as the parent body in accordance with Article 76. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In the opening statement, the applicant's representative informed the Committee members of the reasons for the amendments and additions to this law, which propose amendments to and supplement the applicable legislation relating to specific health care, when it comes to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act amending the name and designation of the work of the Croatian Institute for Labour Medicine and is in line with the provisions of the Health Insurance Act on Health Protection of Health at Work. The law also applies to domestic legislation by Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union on the recognition of professional qualifications in the principle of automatic recognition for certain professions, the applicable rules laying down the performance of certain professions in health care, as well as provisions determining the recognition of foreign educated qualifications. The members of the Committee supported these laws, which address issues related to the conditions of carrying out the health activities of citizens who are citizens of the European Union, and are not Croatian citizens, healthcare professionals of those countries are allowed to carry out their activities without legal obstacles in the Republic of Croatia. As the provisions of Articles 10 and 11 of this Act state that citizens of the Member States of the European Union must know the Croatian language at least at the level necessary for uninterrupted communication with the patient, the formulation that has been taken over from the European Union's specifics, the question of who will determine the level of language knowledge has been raised during the debate. There is also a question of liability insurance for damages when such foreign nationals and citizens of European Union countries are in line in private practices. The Government's representative further explained that the level of language knowledge will be determined by the employer under the conditions governing the workplace where a European Union citizen will work in conditions that require employment. Also, damage insurance cannot be subject to this law because there is no such provision in domestic law in relation to doctors of citizens of the Republic of Croatia, so the introduction of these criteria into this law would be discriminatory for citizens of the Member States of the European Union. After extensive discussion, the Committee members unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15905	Thank you. Do they want other committees? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Ms. Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić and Mr. Representative Miranda Mrsic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15906	Dear Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I would be happy if today we would talk not about adapting the law to the European Union and adapting our legislation but about talking today about health reform and if we had a law that would regulate a new health reform in Croatia, not just one adjustment and so to say nomotechnical changes in the law. What is characteristic today is that in Croatia health reforms alone do not exist, or health reform does not exist. And let me remind you that the health and health insurance system in Croatia is one of the most important parts of our country, and besides the laws that regulate them, which is the Health Security Act and the Health Insurance Act. As I said in the introduction, I would be happy and happy if today I could discuss these laws and talk about health reform and the ways of health reform that the HDZ administration is going to do in the next few years. In addition to those legal provisions, this system is regulated by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which guarantees employees and members of their families the right to social security and social security, which is governed by the abovementioned laws and collective agreements. In Article 58, to remind you, I hope that I do not have to remind you, it is prescribed that everyone has the right to health care, and that this guarantees the state of the Republic of Croatia as one of the fundamental rights prescribed by the law. However, the current situation in Croatian health is further and further away from Article 58. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and only thanks to the understanding of patients and the efforts of health workers, have we not yet reached a stage from which there is no return or collapse of the entire system. This SDP indicates from the beginning of the meeting of this Assembly and so far we have not seen any excess action, not a single change other than the test balloons provided by the health administration. But on the other hand, this system is kind of great for everyone. It is also excellent for doctors and patients, and of course for ministers and for the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. It may sound like a paradox to you, but he's not good for two things. One thing is that this system is not good for the money that we're giving out, we're giving up more than 10% of GDP at the moment, and neither is health because because the state of health is like this, we live 4 to 6 years shorter and less than we could live in an orderly system. And that's why it needs to be changed, and that's why I expect health reform to be one of the topics that should be in this House's session. I hope we get a chance to see that. The current administration has no vision of health reform, but the vision of reform is trying to achieve by providing test balloons so that in recent months we have witnessed the thinking of introducing social participations, we do not know what social participation means, that laboratories in health homes are abolished, and then it has been said that this is not the case, and that part of private insurance is left to private insurance providers. This means that 3 billion kuna would go into private pockets from the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. And what is most painful is this attempt to bring down solidarity because the principles of the market apply in health, and then forget solidarity. And in the latest interview, the minister said a mandatory health insurance competition is opening, and the poor citizens of the Republic of Croatia do not have a chance to get the quality, all available solidarity healthcare they now have. If it goes this way, and it seems that it is trying to move, if HDZ decides to reform healthcare, the rich will be treated according to the principles of modern Western medicine, and the poor, if they can be treated, will have health care at a lower level than so far because what is the golden rule of this system will disappear, and that is the principle of solidarity. The SDP will strongly oppose this and will try to protect the citizens of Croatia from trying to vulgar privatise health without what you've all had the opportunity to see in More's film about American health and the state of American health. Let us hope that such a film will not be made in Croatia. But before health care is delivered into private hands, health care must be financially consolidated, and when I say so, it is a good thing. On the one hand, it's a bad thing that we're in a financial collapse, but it's good because we won't be able to deliver health care to privates because if it's not financially consolidated, no private will take it under their own. Let me say what it looks like now. The total obligations of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute are 4.3 billion kuna. Of that, it is a billion-and-a-half kuna debt that is constantly increasing, noting that HZZO has transferred 800 million kunas from last year under the heading of the due, but unsettled commitments. This year, naturally, since there is no reform, there is no attempt at reform, HZZO has spent 9.8 billion kuna or almost 9% more than last year achieving a loss in the first six months of 636.8 million kuna in compulsory health insurance. The drug debt is a billion and 56 million kuna. The long hospital according to suppliers is more than 360 days old, some hospitals have a debt of over 720 days, and the system obviously works on its own and without control, because according to the latest report of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, there is an increase in all expenditures. To mention, the increase in drug expenditure is 10.14%, the increase in costs of treatment abroad by 156%, the increase in costs of fees of 12%, and nearly 1.3 billion kuna was spent on sick leave. Primary health care expenditures rise by 3%, but at the same time the number of services in this primary health care unit falls. For hospital protection, it's up 8%, and let me just point out that in the first six months, we've issued 20 and a half million recipes. That means by the end of the year we'll be issuing 40 million recipes. Gentlemen, I think that Croatia is not such a sick country that it is so much to issue recipes but it is a matter of control and reform of the system because it is the easiest thing to issue a prescription and a patient to move away from themselves, not try to solve the problem of what is happening in primary health care, that it is at the head of the war doctrine. In war you have a doctrine to send a patient away, and in primary health care because it's not stimulated, we now have a doctrine to send patients as far away as possible to save money. The limits are artificially increased by hospitals, so we boast. Praise the minister and the administration for not growing debts, we still don't see where your debts are. It was supposed to be 31.8. to say which directors were in red. Apparently, some directors, and most HDZ, in red, were caught red, so he gave one repair by 15.9. to get out of that red one. The drugstores have more than 120 days, 940 million kunas, and the pharmacies pay 196 million kuna monthly, and real consumption is 280 million kuna. Special chapter is the newly established Croatian Institute for Labour Protection and Safety at Work. The first and basic omen of the profession, and then when under pressure it functions first from 2008 on the horror, then it is said that no new people will be hired in the system. At this moment, more than a hundred administrative employees, administrative workers who do not know what they would do in their own right, are employed at the new office, so they call their medical colleagues to help them with all of this. The special chapter of this office was contracts with fellow medical specialists back then, then those contracts were violently insulated curatives, although these colleagues never worked in curatives, so the workers walked with a bloody hand wrapped in a towel from one doctor to another doctor, and they couldn't really get health care in the place where it was supposed to happen in time. So that the curative part of the labor medicine carries more than 50% of the working time, and what is the real activity of the medical work, which is prevention, working with workers, is all that is included in Article 1 of these amendments to the laws. We're afraid that given the medical work by the HDZ administration, they've been shut down from somewhere in '95. years of medical work no longer exists. At this point and these few doctors of medicine will retire so that there remains a question of who will deal with the profession and who will be paid by the Croatian Institute of Medicine. It was said that the initial funds of the institute were 5 million kuna, and with a new rebalancing of 48 million kuna, and the question is how much longer will this system cost us. So there is still no idea what this institution itself would do, obviously it was the establishment of an institution under the pressure of Europe, which means that there is no reform, nor will there be, that everything remains under the pressure of Europe. What I regret, unfortunately, is that Europe does not have a directive that would force the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance and the Croatian system to enter into reform, because then they would probably have a reform in front of them today. And in the conclusion of the reform will obviously not be implemented unless Europe forces us to do so, because of the deep dubiousness in the system. Yesterday we heard about the 2007 budget bill, where health care was the worst. In 2008, believe me, it's going to be worse, and there's no reform, and the minister said in the beginning that he was going to go into reform, and then he said that the reform would not take people and within the ministry, and yet none of that, and what I would suggest is that he step away from what is now being done and try to start a reform in a way that people, young people, get involved in that reform. These people can be found online and in libraries, their works can be found. If we get 40 of these people together, we're going to zero every policy, because it's impossible to raise 40 experts who are going to be in one party. That is why the Croatian Democratic Community and the Health Administration are trying in all ways to recruit people to join working groups, but unfortunately there are not so many people from one party who can be in one part of it. What I mean at the end of the year, there is no reform, health care is under collapse, and the question is whether we'll talk again at the end of the year about what we're going to do and how we're going to move forward, and as far as this law is concerned, naturally we're going to support the law, but what our health future is likely to be, we're not going to be able to find out from the healthcare administration today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15907	Thank you. Mrs. Tatjana Shimac-Bonačić, the corrections are later. This is now the continuity of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15908	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The area of health and social care is not an exception to the necessary adaptation of Croatia's accession process to the European Union and the adaptation of domestic legislation with EU legislation. Of course, the adoption of the entire package of health laws is considered a necessary and inevitable fact and, of course, all efforts in this regard should be welcomed. As we have already heard, the SDP club accepts the relevant amendments and additions to the law, the law, I will now look specifically at dental activity, or pharmacy, but it should also be pointed out at the same time that there is a problem in these areas and dentistry and pharmacies. Because of the responsibility to our citizens, our patients, or healthcare professionals, who will actually be affected most by all these measures. The aim of this Directive is essentially to improve the rules of the applicable qualification systems in the world of experience, the principles of guarantee, the freedom of establishment that are incorporated into these systems. The professional training of dentists to perform the entire dental activity in the territory of the Republic of Croatia is demonstrated by the approval of independent work. Since according to the current laws, the provisions of Croatian citizens doctors of dentistry who want to carry out their profession must carry out a traineeship after completing their studies and pass a professional exam. By way of effect, the proposed legislative provisions are delayed until the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union until we, in essence, propose that conditions for doctors of dentistry who have Croatian citizenship are equal to those of doctors of dentistry from a Member State of the European Union, as otherwise foreign citizens would carry out a dental profession in the territory of the Republic of Croatia under more favourable conditions than Croatian citizens. The dental protection is actually organized at the primary and secondary level. Primary dental protection is organized through a network of contract dental teams with HZZO, the overall share of dentistry in primary health care regarding the financial share is approximately 22%. The standard of the network is one team of 2,000 200 insurance companies, a minimum of 1,000 insurance companies, a maximum of 3 thousand 300. Secondary dental protection is organised in specialist dental institutions and via a network of specialist orthodontic teams. Today, all employees of dentists do not have the same legal status in doing their job. From the employees of the House of Health through private persons with a contract with the Croatian Health Insurance Institute to specialists in polyclinics, clinics and ultimately dentists without contractual relations with HDZ. Of course, it is a colorful society that we consider to be able to have equal opportunities in doing their job. The principal has no stimulative attitude towards work, and prevention has been totally neglected. The process of privatizing the waist is just quite divided by the appearance of these 3 types, 3 types of activity actually. There are actually different criteria for colleagues to carry out their activities, and these criteria are very often also the basis of conflict or unequal conditions of performing dental activity and, of course, cause mutual accusations. It is just necessary and concrete to determine what goes into the headline, but of course informing patients about not being, that there is no confusion. There has also been an unfair match between tenants and private contract offices as well as private offices that do not have the possibility to conclude a contract with the institution to fill the basic network of dental activities in most parts of the Republic of Croatia. So if the system of chieftain remains, then clearly define the services because they haven't changed for years, and it is necessary to precisely decide or determine what belongs to this package covered by the contract with HZZO. For a contract with HZZO, you actually need a dentist to contract 880 patients. However, it is an initial contract but within a year it must be at 1100. However, in the case of this number of patients you do not actually get, you get a minimum compensation from HZZO which cannot even be paid by staff in the office. Then we wonder who can make it up to you? Furthermore, the problem with dentistry is the number of specialists in a number of inhabitants. According to regular statistics in Croatia, only 15% of dentist specialists. At the same time in all parts of Croatia are not equally represented and it is not rare that in certain cities or areas a specialist is missing, so patients have to look for a dentist specialist in other cities and counties. The specialistic dental protection should be allowed equally throughout the state territory and new requirements for specialist contracts cannot be viewed only by population numbers but also by geographical location because it is not equal to the distance of Dubrovnik-Neretva County from one another, from the others. Here I see it's over and I'm a little confused considering, given this morning we're... In a walk? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here I can conclude that the SDP Club supports this package, a package of these amendments to the law, but we want to point to a health issue. The problem I mentioned and the broader, and I hope that we will work on it because of our citizens of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15909	Thank you very much. In the name of the club, yes, there is a correction to Mr. Andri Hebrang's incorrect quote in that... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15910	Thank you very much. Mr. President, here's a colleague and a colleague who didn't stick to the agenda at all. They've probably read the agenda that's just coming up and it's a health reform. But it still needs to be fixed. First, the health colleagues are not collapsed because they have never had such stable funding. The fact that it is only from the State budget is a problem and it will be the subject of reform. But it is necessary to correct and say that the government, the Ministry of Finance, from last year's budget increased by 9.8%. It is the largest increase in the health budget in Europe. I didn't follow out of Europe. That's 15% of the state budget. That's 7 and a half percent of GDP, and that's the maximum one country can single out for health care from the budget. Since there are no large debts now, which is a stable supply of drugs, what the wholesalers receive on time is the result of such an investment. And secondly, says the Croatian Institute for Health Protection, it functions on the Horuk. Not on the horror, but on the basis of the hand-raisers in this House fellow.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15911	Thank you. It's Mr. Andri Hebrang's turn on behalf of the HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15912	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues are before us a group of laws that don't talk about the reform we've been hearing about... have time to discuss very extensively and very hard and very hard, so I would now still focus on what these laws are talking about. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And these laws also talk about a problem that is very important and that is not less important than the overall reform that follows. Otherwise, to talk about reform, by the way, means to talk about the continuity of change, how to manage health. This continuity has been going on for us since 1990. Reform is not brought in by one act. The reform is permanent because it must include both health education and management organisation with institutions and primary health care and policy prevention and financing of the health system and the overall attitude of our public towards our own health. So reform is something that can't be solved by one law, by one act, but by continuity. There's a reform going on with us. As you know, there is a major reform of the limit that is not as we have heard earlier from colleagues from the SDP, certain at random rather than determined on the basis of a years-long analysis of the operations of certain hospitals, so the Secretary of State, the Secretary of State and the whole team have set new limits that are strictly controlled and why hospital business is more stable than ever before. But the laws ahead of us are also part of the reforms, but in terms of adapting our system to Europe. What do we have to do in our health care system in a narrow sense so that he can be compatible with Europe? As far as the educational level is concerned, we are not only compatible with Europe but we can boast that our education is at the level of the best organised education as regards different health professions. I mean undergraduate class, first of all. I mean postgraduate teaching, I mean the organisation of a specialist and the last few years organization of sub-specialization, and with great pride I can say that when my students come to work in any country of the European Union, any country of America is completely equal to the knowledge of their colleagues. In fact, many of them also achieve top-notch results there. What needs to be coordinated and where we need to make major shifts is an organization in governance. It's a whole system funding organization. There is a need for the greatest steps and alignment with European, not regulations but customs and norms. These laws also discuss one segment of harmonisation and one segment of adaptation of our health system to the countries of the European Union. And here we have to say that there are two problems, one problem is the protection of health at work, protection of occupational diseases, from diseases at work, and that we are making adjustments with European Union specifics, but that we have already made a whole series of reforms of larger or smaller in that system before that, and that what is before us is actually, I would say only one finalisation of such reforms. That there will be problems in this section of health care that the colleague mentioned, Mrsic, will be, as it has been in other countries that have made such changes to health protection at work, there will be major problems with both organisation and finance but there are institutions that are founded to make these changes and amendments to the law today, I would say fixed and very strictly defined. I'll just mention that these changes that are ahead of us regarding this adaptation work are strictly defined specific health care workers. That Article 6 defines exactly what and how it will work and what are the obligations of the Croatian Institute for Health and Safety at Work. That this Institute has received broad powers and responsibilities and that it will take a long time for it to master all the work that it has received and which we have set for it by this law. In the field of specific health care, the Croatian Institute for Health Protection and Safety at Work, I will remind you of the implementation of statistical research and water records,... proposes and implements measures to preserve, improve the health of workers, formulate doctrine and standards based on international experiences. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It provides opinions and proposals for amendments to the legal and sublegal rules in this area, manages the register of professional diseases in one place, monitors and investigates the causes and consequences, then participates in the complementary professional training of all working in the field of health protection at work, conducts second-degree procedures under specific regulations, etc. And as for monitoring the state of affairs and improving the state of health protection at work, he has also received large duties, monitors the state of security at work, monitors the risks leading to professional illnesses and injuries at work, leads to registers of workers who are exposed in their workplaces and should be stressed, this is unusually important in preventing injuries and occupational diseases. It then implements measures to preserve and improve the safety of workers, develop expert opinions, assist employers' associations, educate employers in implementing measures to protect workers from occupational diseases and occupational injuries, carry out preventive actions, etc., not to list. So, all that they do and modern-day similar seduces in Europe. We had a good tradition in this, because we had a Croatian Institute of Labour Protection that also pooled most of these activities, now it is teaming up with that sector that took care of injuries at work. So the safety at work with this is certainly better, better quality and the frameworks set by the legislator here promise that we will also achieve better results in this segment. What these six laws speak of in the same way is the abolition of the traineeship as you heard from the Secretary of State Dr. Huge for those citizens who come from the European Union with health workers diplomas and want to work in the Republic of Croatia and also to lift the obligation to pass an expert exam for these people. Why? Because we were here, I would say one step stronger than the European regulations, so we have committed health professions after completing higher education, they have to process one year of traineeship and pass a trainee's professional exam that European countries do not know and we are now adapting to this system. The first remark will be if we lose something to it? We won't, if we do it in a wise way, and a wise way means a deal between a resolution ministry between all the universities that educate healthcare professionals of these profiles and these agreements have already begun, that everything that was in the work description of the traineeship has been transferred to undergraduate teaching, it is this reform in medical schools that has begun. And all that is in the practical and theoretical part, doctor, pharmacist, graduate dentist, etc., learnt at the traineeship will now be an integral part of compulsory undergraduate teaching. Therefore, only at the right perspective can it be a step back, but if we accept the overall standards of European countries in the education of these professions that are before us today, then there will be no negative consequences in the education of these experts. What's the adjustment for? In view of the fact that the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union adopted a directive on 7 September 2005. 36 recognising professional qualifications of citizens of European Union countries. In fact, this directive implements the provisions of the General Treaty establishing the European Union, which indicate a clear abolition of obstacles to human and goods collapsing. Obstruction to the abolition of people means, above all, an obstacle to the abolition of the different qualifications criteria needed to carry out certain activities. This implies, in particular, the right to carry out independent activities in the Republic of Croatia which have completed their studies in the country of the European Union. In addition, these provisions guarantee them the right to carry out private practice which is legal in our healthcare system in the form of, as they say, regulated state issues in the area. This means a regulated question for an activity, for some profession, that there is a special law on it. That's why we're going to pass two more, such a special law, in the follow-up to this session. What is the normative for the work of doctors in Croatia? This normative will be the same as in the countries of the European Union, of course, pharmaceuticals and dentists and medical biochemistry engineers etc.. So, the condition for a doctor is a six-year study, 5 thousand 500 teaching hours of theory and practice and for specialists is theoretical and practical education in institutions that are licensed and supervised by specialization. We meet all these conditions, I say, we'll have to adapt them to this new suspension of the traineeship and passing the expert exam. It is essential that no law should prevent the person of this profession in the European Union from working in Croatia, but, of course, this is true in the opposite direction. So every doctor, every dentist, every graduate pharmacist, and so on. will be able to work on this basis in the European Union when we become members of the European Union. Another question that could be asked here is whether it's unfair for our experts of these profiles to continue to conduct a traineeship. Yes, because this law enters into force on the day of the Republic of Croatia's entry into the European Union. So there will be no discrimination between our experts and these professions and experts from European Union countries. There is only one exception for citizens outside Croatia, which is, therefore, citizens of the European Union, who are not citizens of Croatia, which is knowledge of language. And there's been a lot of debate and a lot of problems we've heard in the preparation of these laws, in discussions on the board, etc. Who guarantees knowledge of language at the level of communication with the patient? Only an employer can do that. Why? Because the level of communication with the patient is very different for different professions. The Croatian language must not be known to this extent, for example, by a pathology specialist doctor such as a doctor of internal medicine, radiology or other professions. Therefore, according to the requirement of the profession and according to the conditions indicated in each establishment, the employer determines the level of knowledge of the Croatian language. He checks it and he guarantees that through knowledge of Croatian language what is basic will not disrupt the level of quality of healthcare provided by a doctor who has graduated abroad and works in the Republic of Croatia. It should also be said that professional chambers have, of course, the right to control the quality of work and these doctors as well as doctors and all other medical professions that are citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, this change is a sure step forward in the quality of the circulation of experts among countries. There is no need to be afraid that doctors from Sweden will rush to Croatia, but they should be afraid that doctors from Croatia will rush to Sweden when we become members of the European Union. And therefore, during this short period of time until this full membership, it is necessary to prepare doctors, nurses, dentists and all other healthcare professionals to organise such working conditions, organise such a way of working, organise such incomes that they do not leave the Republic of Croatia as the doctors of the new members of the European Union have recently entered it. This could impoverish our health system to the extent that we may not yet be able to see it. The same goes for nurses. Today we already have a great shortage of doctors, a great lack of nurses, of course all other health professions, not to mention now. So that's it. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, we accept and support these laws. We believe that they are a step in uniting our system with the European Union system, but we are warning of these problems of the lack of personnel that could occur at this time and therefore requires a thorough reform of the system in that part of the funding in which the Croatian health system is the last one in Europe 100% hung on the state budget compared to hospital institutions. Hospital institutions on their income table record revenues from the state budget between 97 and 100%. So, practically negligible are other sources of funding for our most expensive institutions. These are health institutions and in this segment will need certainly thorough reforms in order for staff to get what they deserve by their efforts and work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15913	Thank you. We have corrections to an incorrect quote. The first is Mr. Representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15914	The esteemed representative, Andrija Hebrang, did not stick to the agenda because he was talking about health reform. Therefore, it is the first correction of an incorrect allegation. And obviously that health reform is something that Croatia needs, so you have obviously taken advantage of the opportunity to say that health reform will one day be done in Croatia when it will have “Dekna didn’t die and when we don’t know”. Therefore, it is likely that the reform will be one day. And the second correction to the incorrect assumption is that Croatian health care hangs 100% on the state budget. That the Croatian Health Insurance Institute is 90 percent getting out of the budget. It's not true, because we all make contributions to health care out of our salaries, and that's not the original revenue of the budget. The original revenue of the budget is taxes and customs. It's something I want to put in the common register that one day, when I get sick, me or someone else, Mr. Hebrang, we're solid about it. Therefore, it is not true that Croatian health care is tied to the budget. Otherwise, the budget under Article 67, less than 10 or 15%, sets out the budget. One Germany from its budget means not from the original resources to health care stands out 30%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15915	Thank you. Correction Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15916	A colleague of Hebrang says the health reform is going and his proof is for it says the minister has set limits for hospitals. They are not limited to hospitals of health reform, or if they are, then it is a health reform worthy of this minister and this government. We're witnessing a health collapse. Debts to suppliers are increasing. HZZO alone has a billion-and-a-half kuna debt that is constantly increasing, bigger than last year in this period, bigger than in the first quarter of this year. We've been paid off by doctors. They're actually punished by that. Well, this law will introduce the possibility of foreign doctors entering. Well, you said it yourself, so we don't have to. The doctors from Sweden won't come here. They will come from Bulgaria, from Romania. Our high-quality people will be going out. Why? Well, because their wages are higher there. All these questions should be answered by health care reform. There is no such reform of health care. We have no answers through these laws, or through any other who are offered here how to answer that question. Health reform actually doesn't have it that's clear to everyone. Patients suffer.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15917	Thank you. Correction by Mrs. Biljana Borzana. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15918	Thank you, Mr. President. The Honorable Mr. Professor spoke of the unprecedented quality of Croatian health care. But if she really is, I wonder why nearly 800 patients were treated abroad last year. Our health care, the quality of our health care, is based on the enthusiasm and imprecise work of health care personnel who have salaries such that a plumber or auto mechanic would not get up in the morning if his captain had been paid as much as the captain of a doctor. Therefore, I don't think we can talk about quality today in Croatia because the state obviously didn't invest enough to have our patients go to treatment abroad.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15919	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Representative Rajko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15920	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, colleague Hebrang said that the Croatian Institute of Medicine should monitor the health of workers, give recommendations and advice on health and he does. However, the health ministry, especially the past, did not respect that. So, they have nicely said medicine work and the Croatian Institute of Toxicology, asbestos is cancerogen, do not put asbestos on, throw off the list of poisons. On 16 February 2006, the former minister self-initiated and allowed asbestos production. The International Labour Organisation has come and believe it or not the 20th Eco-incident around the world is the worst incident in this area of Europe. So that's an incorrect quote. The second is, the truth is no longer, i.e. the reduction in hospital losses, but by the same percentage, i.e. 10% less, the debt is growing by wholesalers. So today it's a month-to-month debt of exactly 84 million kuna. And third, we won't go any further.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15921	Thank you. Let's move on. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15922	Thank you very much, Mr. President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Okay, I'm not going to talk about health reform even though health reform, here I am looking and living in it for 15 years, in fact, a few years and longer can be agreed on and well, there could be negative things, but what I want to say is quite certain that my personal opinion. My personal opinion is that we have very high-quality people in health care, starting with nurses, dentists, doctors, pharmacists, that these people are working very hard, trying to ensure maximum quality, and money will always be a problem and money is certainly a big problem. We are not the only ones in Croatia facing health problems, facing the West in far richer countries. But we are talking here about these six laws that actually harmonize our legislation in the health sector with European Union legislation. The Health Protection Act has been in force since 2003, and now according to our intentions and aspirations to join the European Union in 2011 we are working on the opening and negotiation of chapters, in this case Chapter 19, or Chapter 3. In particular, regarding the Health Protection Act, a new health institution is being established, now called the Croatian Institute for Health Protection and Safety at Work. This new institution is the legal successor of the Croatian Institute for Health Protection, i.e. for the medicine of work that still performs the protection of the health of workers, but at the same time this new institution of the Croatian Institute for Health and Safety at Work is taking over part of the activities of the Department for Protection at the work of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship from part-round security on what the amendments and additions of Article 19 speak. The health care law. Uniting the activities of care for the health of workers and safety at work is in line with the International Labour Organisation's guidelines and intensities shown in its 155 Convention on Health and Safety at Work, but also with the World Health Organization's positions for the period from 2007 to 2013. Both the International Labour Organisation and the World Health Organization keep health and safety at work crucial in protecting workers' health from the adverse impact of the workplace and the working environment. What needs to be pointed out once again is that 10 million kuna is needed for this amendment of the law, i.e. to comply with European Union legislation and the draft of a new institution. This year, a million and 500 thousand kuna were secured in the state budget. I hope that this fact of a significant increase in funds for some 35 workers is in the hands of the competent ministry because it really represents a significant cost-gathering. The second important area covered by the amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act, but also in these 5 other laws, whose debate is in progress, concerns the abolition of obstacles to the free movement of persons and services in the territory of the Member States of the European Union. Health care professionals with these changes and additions, healthcare professionals who are citizens of the European Union, members of the European Union and who have received the training of a healthcare professional will be able to perform health activities without a traineeship and a professional examination, of course under the conditions of knowledge of Croatian language. The knowledge of the Croatian language and the decision of the employer was spoken here, but it was said how much I am and if I understood the Secretary of State well that the belief of the knowledge of Croatian language would in some way be issued by the competent chamber. I'm not sure if I understand you correctly, but regarding the knowledge of the Croatian language, you said something about it and said it, so whether it will be an employer, whether it will be settled in a way that the employer does as it is suggested or possibly will propose some kind of amendment and amendment. What you would like to point out is related to the traineeship and the expert exam. Therefore, full education related to the education of healthcare professionals should also be brought into line with the legislation of the European Union or better in line with education in the Member States of the European Union. If the government's intention is to join the European Union in 2011, I don't think it will be possible to bring this traineeship into line with the education system in a way that our citizens in 2011 won't have to take a traineeship, i.e. a professional exam. I think that this should have been taken into account enough, that there was enough time and that, before this harmonisation and these amendments and the additions of these laws that we are discussing, that even in the context of secondary schooling, or higher schools, changes are made, or that they ensure that the part of the traineeship is installed in regular schooling. Somewhere it is done, but somewhere, and we will see at the following points where, for example, the proposal of the Law on Prematures, physiotherapists exist, and there are doubts about titles, i.e. about titles, for example, which are given to the recipient, i.e. in the section of the physical therapist and their education, so by 2011, I certainly think it is too short of time to implement the reform in the education system in a way that this reform in part of the traineeship is in line with these laws which, i.e. the amendments and additions to the laws that we are likely to adopt here in the Croatian Parliament today. Therefore, the HDSSB, along with the comments made and certain doubts to which we expect the answer, these amendments and the additions of the law, which are six laws, will be accepted on the occasion of the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15923	Thank you very much. And on behalf of the HNS club, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15924	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I'll be much shorter than my predecessors for two reasons. First of all, what Mrsic said in his presentation, where he pointed out possible areas in which there will be certain shortcomings, the lack of application of these laws in practice, and I don't think it should be repeated, your warnings are really in place, and I think we need to follow these areas in the next period and try to correct the possible shortcomings you have warned about. I particularly agree with your observations, i.e. the debate on opening a competition in the field of health insurance, but also with other elements. But I would like to add two or three more sentences to what my colleague Mrsic said. Let's start with commendation. What is well done about the preparation of these laws is that we have invited professional associations, or representatives of professional associations, to the home body. It's something the HNS club is always looking for. We believe that the profession must have its word and it is very good when the profession, with professional associations, agree on such proposals of the law, then our work is clearly greatly facilitated. It is particularly good that certain professional associations will also be involved in the realization of certain elements that we talked about today, I do not know about self-employed work permits, they will now monitor certain additional criteria, etc. That's a good part of the story. But where did we make a major failure from the HNS that should certainly be avoided in the future? And this is colleagues and colleagues more than 10 years ago, the founding and ownership rights of many health organizations have been transferred to whom, to Croatian counties, and many major cities have health organizations, so they will be involved in the realisation of many of these laws. How many times has the Minister of Health found himself in the preparation of this package of laws with the mayors? I'm not sure that this change has been planned systematically along with them, that they've been prepared, that they've been warned. Whether the mayor of Zagreb, my mayor of the Primorje-Gorski County and minister will lead and work on the same project or on three separate projects. I think we're going towards three projects right now, which is not good, it's unnecessary. I will just tell you what might be important to know here, which is that the European Regional Assembly has not long since cancelled obedience to the European Union and the directives on many service activities and in health, education, etc. And even the WTO has turned their backs and said, well it can, our countries must respect state institutions and those regulations, but we will not in the regions. We are closer to the citizens and we will directly convert some of the funds to help them with health services and education, etc. In fact, I just mean to underline this for a reason because this is the instrument with which many European countries essentially bypass certain criteria not in a negative sense, but when they see that some specific problems need to be solved, then they lower resources to lower levels. So the region and local self-government then jump in and complement the shortcomings, or address the shortcomings that have been observed, because for these or those reasons, the clear state must not, for those reasons, promote direct interventions, etc. Help. But that's why they very cunning, very correctly have permanent communication, vertical communication of three levels of government. That's missing in Croatia. It is a pity that I, too, are appealing that, in future, in the preparation of these laws and other laws whose realisation will depend largely on both local and regional self-government, we must do so. Here, we just wanted to add this to what's already been said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15925	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, State Secretary Ante Zvonimir Golem reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15926	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I just wanted to give a few clarifications and answers to the question. As far as the answer is concerned, it will not be prescribed or issued by the medical or other chambers, but it will also take the category as different categories that are the conditions for the licence so that it can also be used for the language. It can also be done by the employer, however, any employer who cares especially about the communication that there is a worker who will understand the one for whom the employer is there, it is clear that he will use that category. But there's something else I should say. I really do thank you, to praise this system. I mean, it's been talking all the time, and I have to intervene, about health care in the crisis, about the collapse of the system. Since I've been coming to this High House, you've been talking to the MPs about the collapse system, the system hasn't collapsed. But anyway, here I'll confirm, I won't fix anything incorrect, I'll confirm the exact quote of Mr. Honorable Representative who said exactly that we're on a billion-and-a-half kuna debt to which we came from 2.6 billion kuna and there's a further trend of reduction. I know that legal regulations may be the basis for reform procedures, but what's done is felt, those procedures in the reforms that are done are very much felt. Clearly, you should know what it's all about, then you'd probably recognize it, so you'd understand that when in the first six months of this year it's 600 million kunas now, that means if you stayed even this time, that would be a billion 200 by the end of the year, there wouldn't be even a billion. And in such a way, in fact, it is commendable to all the changes that are being made, which are at a pace, and very soon that those legal parts will be necessary for further reforms in front of this House. The reform is under way, she's permanent, the healthcare isn't in the collapse clearly needs to be said. 800 citizens who were scheduled to go to treatment abroad in one year are part of 18 million services provided in health care and part of services that simply will not likely be provided in the Republic of Croatia in the future. It is clear and loud to say that this government, the health minister, has made it clear, will now announce this second meeting that takes place with mayors as owners and with health institutions, that all the measures implemented will be implemented publicly and can be seen if such ones want to be seen. In the party we find 40 experts we can, and I believe it's an experience that some others can't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15927	Thank you very much. At 10 and 50, the deadline for the 10-minute hearing is due, that's exactly what I'm talking about right now. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. Mr. Representative Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15928	Your Honor, Mr. President. The secretary of state turns the data in his own way as anyone in his place would want. Last year, HDZ transferred 800 million kunas, this year it's already 600 million kunas in losses, so it's a billion and 400. The entire Croatian Health Insurance Institute is at a loss of 3.4 billion. So let's expect by the end of the year to be over 2 billion. Thus, an absolutely incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15929	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Representative Rajko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15930	On that trail, it's not true that it's 1 and a half billion but it's 3.4 billion, and it's true that it's spilling out of the hollow... hospitals, hospitals reduce debt, but for the same amount, 84 million kunas are growing monthly debt to wholesalers. [[The speaker is not understood because of the announcement.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15931	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15932	Honorable President, Secretary of State, fellow MPs. I will look more closely from this united package at the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act. In addition to having heard about the alignment with the Directive of the European Community on the equalisation of rights and the possibility of employment of persons of the same profession in all Member States of the European Union, I would more like to refer to what I personally consider to to be very important, and this is changing. And that is, the name of the Croatian Institute for Medicine at the Croatian Institute for Health and Safety at Work is changed from next year, and it would not be significant if this new institution did not extend its obligations in the field of improving safety at work, and therefore I will just a little bit more on that stay. Because I expect that this new office will pay more attention and normal, better quality follow-up and lead precisely to improvements in workplace security. I expect to improve and update the monitoring of occupational injury indicators and the register of occupational diseases. In particular, I think that the new institute should address exactly the kind of activity where current indicators happen to us that in certain jobs workers get the most hurt, the most they suffer, whether they are injured at work or whether they later have permanent consequences that we call professional illness. Therefore, I would especially point out that the Institute is paying a little more attention to the very protection of safety at work in the activities of processing activities, construction activities, agriculture, forestry operations because it is precisely in these activities that the most injured workers and the most injured at work are. Last year, about 24,000 workers were injured precisely in these activities, about 78% of them male labour, 22% female labour force. But in these activities, we have the most professional diseases that occur somewhere on average in the 45th year of life, somewhere at an average of 19 years of employment. And precisely in these activities, what's most unfortunate is that most workers are killed by the death of 77 people in 2007, and most of all in the construction work, somewhere around here. 30% The New Institute for Health and Safety at Work must not only be a mere registerer of events in these areas, but must be a co-ordinator and must now warn when data is coming where these injuries occur most and problems and normally hire all those services, all institutions, inspections that have to influence the protection of workers' health, and of course we will significantly reduce those costs of treatment and that employers will certainly have lower costs. I therefore appeal to this new service of the office to act quickly and to detect problems related to professional diseases that are most often caused in working places with cumulative traumas, i.e. on the basis of existing data. the forced position of the body or where a far greater physical force is required, the application of the physical force. Then in those jobs where noise is not allowed, where normally many people damage hearing and normal in those jobs where workers work with vibrations, aids such as drinking or certain mechanical machines. I also think that it should be maximum protection in that part of the worker protection in such a way that it is necessary to see whether the appropriate means of protection that workers use, because unfortunately we know that many employers are just saving on these means of protection and think that they do not know what they have saved in the end is coming back to them as a boomerang, it returns to them as a higher cost when they have to invest in the treatment of workers or pay for injuries at work. Just a few more data. Today in Croatia, we have 51% of employees working in a tiring position, while in the European Union there is around 45%, so workers work in this situation that causes damage or professional illness, while around 83% of workers in Croatia today are exposed to psychophysical efforts that normally involve stressful jobs. Finally, he would suggest that this institution is based on all these data and registers which will also run, and my proposal would be to launch an initiative that all workers in Croatia, regardless of working in the private or public sector, social etc. they must pass the health check at least once a year. It's those systematic checks. Not to be as it is now for certain jobs, which is prescribed by specific rules or to be left with collective bargaining through collective agreements, because unfortunately practice has shown us that through these collective agreements unions have failed to deal with such a kind of review of workers, and I think that it is very important for the health of workers and should be kept in mind whether workers work in private or elsewhere, that at least once a year they must all pass such a single health care and I think it would be a major contribution to health and workers, including the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15933	Thank you. A few corrections of incorrect allegations. Mr. Representative Rajko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15934	Thank you very much. An incorrect quote is from counterpart Kunst to quote, "you should pay a little more attention to the health of the workers." That's an incorrect colleague, Kunst. Our doctors only maintain the health system thanks to their efforts, knowledge and enthusiasm. Director of the Croatian Institute of Medicine, Director of the Croatian Institute of Toxicology in 2006, and you know it very well because you were the president of the trade union, do not go back to production with asbestos. You know it was the International Labour Organization, you received it, and you know it's one of the worst incidents since the last century and this century. The 26th incident is the biggest in the world. So it's incorrect that doctors don't do their jobs, don't do Mr. Vice President's Health Administration in this case, the Ministry of Health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15935	It's not a correction to an incorrect quote, you're commenting on an opinion and a proposal. Please limit yourself to correcting the incorrect allegations and factual claims. Mr. Representative Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15936	Mr. Kunst is in his discussion... on the Law on protection of work with it correcting an incorrect assumption is that doctors, that they work there that they will not be checked whether someone is wearing a helmet or not, and it is also incorrect to assume that the power now spreads, to expand now in part-time work. We had it very well arranged until '95. In 1995, Mr. Hebrang, with the new law, simply abolished the medical work and the medical work disappeared. And we have what we have now. So it's an incorrect assumption that we're spreading powers now, but we're just returning them, trying to put them back where they were in the '95s.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15937	Mrs. Representative, Dear Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15938	Well, I'll similarly correct the incorrect assumption. So, colleague Kunst was mostly talking about how more attention should be paid to safety at work. However, this is not the jurisdiction of the Croatian Institute of Medicine, but the problem is that we do not have, the problem is that we do not have enough doctor medical work. I'll say, for example. in the County of Međimurje, which has only 2 doctors of medical work required of 5, one of whom is now retired. So the problem will arise in other counties. So, the problem is with the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15939	It's one comment again, one opinion, one suggestion. That's not you know well.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15940	The president would have let us do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15941	You know better than to. This is obviously from the plane that this is about the comment. Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15942	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The 2003 Health Protection Act regulates principles, measures, methods of implementation, and healthcare organisations. The holder of social care for the health of the population, rights and obligations of persons in the use of health care, as well as the content, manner and control of the exercise of health activities. Here, it is called for itself enough to say how wide the area covers the same Health Protection Act, and of course the public's interest in quality and effective healthcare is obvious. We witness this every day, but the debates in this House are also about the interest in quality health care, and on the occasion of the adoption of the state budget and rebalancing, etc. And certainly the main parameters are the quality and availability of health care. So in this direction, let us mention the findings of the World Health Organization that says that the quality and availability of health care in our country is 22 places. But of course this important area should be improved and I would remember the moment when the Minister of Health mentioned on the current morning that in that part we would achieve all consensus and unity to really improve this important area. So much for domestic territory, but surely we are interested in this second, therefore, and this intensification of pre-accession negotiations to the European Union and, of course, in harmonising our legislation with the legislation of the European Union. And in this context, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted an action plan in 2007 which provides for the establishment of a new institution that would unite the Croatian Institute for Labour Medicine and Department of the Ministry of Economy, the Department of Safety at Work. And the following comes, comes after that debate to remember only about health insurance for health care and work, coming as Mr. Secretary of State mentioned, the moment is coming that this law will establish this new institution that will therefore be the institution of the Croatian Institute for Health and Safety at Work. Its activity has been said, therefore, of the specific health care involved in monitoring the situation, improving safety at work, monitoring the registers, etc. And I believe that this institution will certainly improve this important area and, of course, reduce the level of sick leave regarding all these possible activities, which we know we are standing by with pain etc.. Please, that part is one of the first newspapers, and the other newspaper is related directly to chapter three, so freedom of movement of persons and services. On 7 September 2005, the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union also adopted Directive 2005/36, which recognises professional qualifications, professional qualifications. And it is that this directive recognises automation for certain professions of qualifications in our country. Likewise with the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, this will also be made possible for our employees. With course, it is necessary to mention that moment of knowledge of the Croatian language that has been discussed today with regard to uninterrupted communication. Let's just say the secretary of state explained the moment that he's going to be in charge of setting what that degree of training is about foreign language. And now, of course, we come by each individual profession, these are the next laws that are there. And let's mention, of course, that the midwives got special attention, I think they deserve it, today's debates will confirm it, the physiotherapists also, but, of course, doctors will not need a professional exam, nurses and professional trainees, and these other medical biochemistry engineers will also not need an expert exam and pharmacists and dentists in that part are the criteria that will be necessary for such a moment to meet. I believe this law will also contribute to this area in any case, so we will surely support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15943	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15944	Thank you, Vice President, I am pleased that my colleague Milinkovic, here he has shown that he really understands that this law extends the obligations in the field of improving safety at work, and that this very new office will run a new register from which normally, if some statistics are conducted, they will be very visible in which area and where there are more injuries, where they occur, in which activities, larger professional diseases unlike some colleagues who deliberately do not want to understand or want to admit that this new institution will really improve and lead to a better and better quality of this system of work injury and occupational illness record. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15945	Mr. Representative Stjepan Kudić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15946	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, I'm going to start an unusual debate of my own, and I'm going to remember that today is our patron saints' day. ... Elijah, meaning the Day of Protectors of Doctors and Pharmacy, was one martyr who had lost their heads to the Roman Emperor because they were Christians, and imagine people were treated completely for free and regardless of faith and confession. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So let him help us a little for today's debate. Now I'm going to continue my debate, and I'm going to go from bill 161 because this 159 is pretty much exhausted in the current course. On 17 July 2003, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Law on Medical Biochemical Activity, which entered into force on 6 August 2003. The applicable law as general conditions for the performance of medical biochemical activities is laid down. First diplomat of the Faculty of Pharmacy and Biochemistry in the Republic of Croatia to call the graduate engineer of medical biochemistry or nostrified foreign diploma on the completed appropriate university undergraduate study. Under two professional examinations. Three, citizenship of the Republic of Croatia. Four, knowledge of Croatian. Five, enrolment in the register of the Croatian Chamber of Medical Biochemists. And six, approval for independent work. The proposed law aims, as several of our speakers have already said, to abolish the obstacles to the free movement of persons and services between Member States and Member States, to address issues under conditions for performing the medical and biochemical activity of citizens, Member States of the European Union, so as to enable them to carry out medical biochemical activities by applying regulations governing the work of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia without a professional examination. As far as P.Z.E. Medical Law is concerned, 163. On 17 July 2003, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Law on Medicine, which entered into force on 6 August of the same year, and also noted the general conditions. The European Parliament and the Council of the European Union adopted Directive 2005/36 on the recognition of professional qualifications on 7 September 2005. In relation to doctors, the directive as a basic medical training, which Mr. Hembrang has already mentioned, determines that which includes a total of at least 6 years of studies or 5 thousand 500 hours of theoretical and practical education that takes place at or under his supervision. The implementation of the proposed law will not require additional funding from the state budget. As for P.Z. 164. it is the Law on sisterhood, it entered into force on 6 August 2003 and was passed by the Croatian Parliament and in that law exists. So there is a nurse intern who has acquired basic training for nurses and can only conduct health care under supervision. Under two, the Head of the Health Care Team, it is a nurse of high or higher professional training who is registered in the medical nurse's register at the Croatian Chamber of Nurses and who has been given approval for independent work. The European Parliament and the Council of the European Union adopted Directive 2005/36 on the recognition of professional qualifications on 7 September 2005. For the purpose of accessing nursing education, the Directive requires: the completion of a general education of 10 years confirmed by a diploma, testimony or other evidence issued by competent authorities in a Member State or by a licence which confirms the success of an equal degree of access to a school for nurses. The education of general care medical means shall include at least three years of studies or 4000 600 hours of theoretical clinical education, with a duration of theoretical education representing at least one half of the minimum duration of education. As for P.Z. 165 Proposal for a Law on Pharmacy 2005/36 guarantees to persons who have acquired professional qualifications in one of the Member States access to the same profession, the same rights when performing that profession in another Member State and the Member States of that Member State. The aim of this Directive is to improve the rules of the applicable qualification recognition systems in... experience and at the same time maintaining the principle of guarantee of freedom of business... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] which are embedded in these systems. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As regards pharmaceuticals, the Directive recognises, as evidence of formal qualifications for pharmaceuticals, a minimum duration of 5 years involving 4 years of regular theoretical and practical education at a university or a high school institution of the same degree or under the supervision of a university and 6 months of traineeship at a pharmacy or in a hospital under the supervision of the pharmaceutical department of that hospital. The implementation of the proposed law will not require additional funding from the state budget. About dentists. So the Law on dental activity of P.Z.E. 166 came into force on 6 August 2003. It was brought by the Croatian Parliament. ... who emphasized who could perform dental activity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So dentists, dentists, dentists after a dental study, must have passed a professional exam. A specialist exam for work in individual specialist professions and licenses, of course. The European Parliament and the Council of the European Union adopted Directive 2005/36 on the recognition of professional qualifications on 7 September 2005. With the application of regulations governing the work of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia, this is already mentioned to dentists of the citizens of the Member States of the European Union with acquired basic dental education, it is possible to carry out dental activities without a professional examination. The implementation of the proposed law will not require additional funding from the State budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15947	Thank you. Mr. Representative Bruno Kurelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15948	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. These amendments and additions to the applicable laws are, in fact, changes that cosmetically improve the applicable laws by making them more flexible in the environment of the European Union. And on that side, there's no doubt that these points are being discussed in the package. But what's important here and what I want to say as an agent and look back is my vision of what we're entering into the healthcare system and we're actually going to go in because we say in two years we're in Europe. We're getting into that Europe. The very system of health care throughout its activities and the actors who implement it should be the basis of a healthy and efficient society. Therefore, the importance of the healthcare system is deeply involved in all the pores of one society and the interests of the provider and the service user intertwine in this system every day. And so you will rarely find someone who is not interested and who has no need to know about the state of health today and tomorrow. This is where we talk about the functioning of health care. The colleagues used statistical indicators mostly in the first half of this year. Not to repeat myself, but I have to point out, no matter how hard we try to use the instrument of business opportunities, we actually try to relativate the situation in the health system, it's not good because that's what many parameters on which this system rest say. Personally, as an insider within the healthcare system, I have insisted for nearly 3 decades and can say that the current health policy is very narrow and over-occupied with my illnesses. Through the system how it currently works, I don't recognize whose dominant jurisdiction is, undermining, the dominant jurisdiction of the implementation of health policy? Whether the Ministry of Health or the Ministry of Finance can often see that money is deployed in the system of institutions and not in the programme system through everyday practice. So in order to determine the priorities of the health system reform, we need to understand what we need to change, and why should we change that? Otherwise, we can only imagine reforms as a means to change only a part of our habits. Part of our habits and nothing more. That's why health is happening to us because it is not well managed. I will not directly evaluate parameters capable, incapacitated because, in my opinion, this is the result of certain knowledge or ignorance and experience gained by work, but I cannot help thinking that there is a lack of licensed quality in the management part of the system. Let's analyze the controls inside the health care system. Let's be honest, he's dominantly political, although political membership doesn't have to rule out quality. How does an individual become generally managed when inside the system institutions are based on belonging to a particular lobby or on the basis of an evaluation of the quality of the programme and the possibility of its realisation? Think for yourself. Let's analyze who sits in the boards, say, local hospitals, and what do individuals have to do with health care? And we know ourselves that a good organization is a condition for the start of any change. The good functioning of any system depends primarily on the structure of the personnel involved. And what do we have today? First of all, I'm going to say a quality shot especially medically and then a quantitative lack of health care at all. We've got a doctor's fee. Croatia has fewer doctors on 100,000 residents than the average of Central and Eastern Europe, I will not talk about Scandinavian countries. But also from most European Union countries. We are already importing medical records from BiH, including Macedonia. According to the latest data, Croatia is missing more than 1200 specialists in hospitals and primary protection. How much doctoring of medicine has become an unpopular interest in young people has shown that, 18 years ago, seven candidates competed for one entry post at the Medical School, and school years 2006/2007 alone 2.2. However, the registration quotas were not filled out. It is a statement by the president of Croatia's medical chamber, Mr. Hrvoje Minig. And as we take care of the staff needed in the health care system, let us take another example. A colleague mentioned before me who spoke on this subject sisterhood and the necessary qualifications in that part. In our present situation, there is an inevitable question about the application of Croatia's EU accession procedure, specifically with the application of Directive 2005/66 of 7 September 2005. It is already mentioned today, which very clearly defines the minimum standards for the education of nurses within the countries of the European Union, which are significantly lagging behind by the number of qualified nurses. Schooling of middle nurses employed in the health care system needs to be highlighted as one of the most important national priorities. Because what will happen if the system doesn't adapt quickly to these changes. In that case, the head of the department, head of the shift, more nurses who will come from the European Union countries where they will have a lower salary, and will compete for jobs where we do not have adequate expertise, and unfortunately we will not be able to do anything about it. And if I didn’t, I’d end up with that people’s “We may not have a recipe for success, but we know who’s creating a basis for failure. ” Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15949	Mr. Representative Rajko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15950	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The last four, five years of health administrations their basic characteristics have been waiting, waiting, waiting, delaying, and then when the rapid and unorthodox improvisation is suppressed. Since we can't change the past, unfortunately, I won't be long about it, it's best to let that period go to memory or how our vice president likes to say it's a mandate eaten by locusts, in this case I mean health administration. So something that absolutely no law we've seen since the current 8, 6 laws were made in 2003. Four years, no law and now two fast-moving, fast-moving laws of the Premature Act and the Law of Physical Activity. My colleague Kundić said great, St. Kuzma and Damjan, doctors and saints, pharmacists, doctors saints worked free. Your doctors in Croatia are great. Our nurses are great, so we're in an excellent 35-seat World Health Organization rating. I can't say I won't say our doctors are saints, but they certainly work for free. In front of me is the contract of our top clinical institution and university professor. University Professor, Master of Science, Doctor of Science, Doctor of Science, Doctor of Specialist, and, therefore, a teacher at the university, one of our top institutions where he says: “Operation contract, Article 1 of the Client, in this case the institution orders that the performer, ” so the university professor “to carry out tasks related to systematic clinical examinations in Article 3. The orderer undertakes to pay the university professor, specialist doctor, specialist doctor, Croatian doctor contract referred to in point 1 at the latest and that gross amount of 45.00 is opened with a letter of forty-five kuna closed bracket completed. 45 kuna gross. Today is the work of doctor, Croatian doctor gross, I am not an economist, so I find this difficult, university professor of specialists and specialists. Croatian doctors thanks us to our colleague Kundić, thanks to our nurses, and on this later, to our efforts but not to how much we pay for Croatian healthcare and therefore thank them, all sisters and all doctors. So we're working almost so bad because we still get 45 minutes, an hour's examination of 22 kuna net. And that's why it's gonna happen to us. Don't God give us Polish syndrome, God forbid. Poland is like us, a European old country, a country that is a member of the European Union and you find it in literature and you can Google it, something called Polish syndrome. Characterization in two ways. First they're our Polish doctors. They're almost like St. Kuzma and Damjan, but they work from Monday to Friday in Poland, and then on weekends at the airport in Ireland, England, they work for pounds on weekends so they can survive in their own country. They call them flying doctors. It's not bad, it's not exactly harmless to do your normal hours at the Warsaw hospital, and then go to Ireland on weekends to help the Irish people and come back Monday morning. The second symptom of this syndrome is nurses. Believe it or not, nurses in Poland 300,000, great nurses. But the only nurses from the 27 countries of the European Union who cannot work in the European Union cannot work. And you know why? Because they had a health administration like us whose characteristics were waiting, waiting and delaying. They didn't adjust the curricula, they didn't educate them, they didn't do what we said long ago, one bridging, crossing the model to have enough ECTS points, to get the clinical knowledge they have, but also the skills in their work. And that's why they only work in Poland today. Nowhere else. There's no labour market. We can pass 100 of these laws, 100 adjustments, but since it happened to the Polish nurses, it will happen to Croatian nurses. It is a precedent, and we have a lot of lawyers there, they know when the precedent is made, regardless of the fact that it is not an Anglo-Saxon right of Croatia, it is difficult to fix in the European Union. We've been pinning, we've been praying. Okay, we built a chamber in 2003, we built the Nurses Act, in 2003 we set up a chamber. And come on, let's use those three, four, five years from 2003 to 2008, let's help them. Let's help because they're the headquarters of our organization. There's 30 grand of them. Let us try to enable them to make their skills and skills on the labour market, not just the rest of us, in this case doctors. So, Polish syndrome, flying doctors, I hope this doesn't happen in Croatia and lack, or the inability of nurses to work outside Poland. Andrija Printar was born 120 years ago, the first president of World Health, today we celebrate 60 years of World Health and has long since said '24. ignorance is the biggest enemy of health, so please try to make, if you do not, we will send from blackberry or any current health administration to see how and in any way quickly allow the sisters to accept this override module and get knowledge and skills and that they can come to the labour market, and not only come to us from outside Croatia. Croatian Public Health is the best Croatian export product of the 20th century, I guarantee. No INA, no oil, no tourism, no Bajader, and now I'm not saying what. Nothing. Croatian Public Health, the best Croatian export brand of the 20th century. And that will be, by all accounts, the best Croatian import brand. It'll be a doctor's import. You already have a lot in the literature about it. So, we were exporting brains, exporting knowledge, giving models that have been applied around the world, and today our new brand is going to be importing doctors. And that's not good, and that's what we offered a solution for, but it just doesn't make a difference. Those who sat in the Parliament last term, we shared our guilt like we did the new parliamentary representatives, but clearly, that's always the blame of the one who finally raises his hands, the one who has the majority. It's democracy. Democracy is a procedure, I respect it, but come on, the situation is serious. If nothing, because of our sisters, because of them 30 grand, we think about our system and try to help them. February 2000 980 to 1200 doctors at the Croatian Employment Institute. 1200 unemployed doctors, data from the Croatian Employment Service. What did we do? We gave these doctors the possibility of education, respecting those 3 good rules, 3K, Competition or competition, the competence of having a third K, quality. 3 years later, 4 years later at the Department of Employment 280 doctors. Data very verifiable, you have laptops, Google, check. Today there are also about a hundred, but when we look at the licensed ones, today we have 35 licensed doctors at the employment office, and in 2000 we had 10 times more, even 15 times more. And that's when we said, that's when we wrote a threat to the lack of a doctor. These years, 7, 8 nothing. Nothing changed in that education. There has been no increase in university enrolment, no increase in the number of planned new people, and today we have a situation of missing 300 interns, 340 surgeons, 130 family medicine teams. Today we have a situation that we don't have 69 pediatricians, today we have a situation that the entire Eastern Slavonia that suffered in the Homeland War has no pediatrician doctor. It's not good. Well, that wouldn't happen to us, and that's what's going to happen to us, please, I appeal to all those who decide on all administrations to lead about what's most important, which is education. We see what's going on on the stock and all the smart economists from Wall Street say is your best investment in education to yourself and your children. It's the best, the safest, it's slow, but you know how they taught you patience, saved. It's already in the old books. Therefore, the human resources situation is on the trail to threaten us with a bad situation if we do not quickly enable bridging, overcoming education and further education this year. Today is St. John's Day. Kuzma and Damian, protector of the pharmacist. Today, our colleague Kundić pharmacists in the situation that their Croatian pharmacy said 5 days ago that they were in permanent debt, finished quote. It's a permanent debt situation. That's not good. They almost work for free, too. Clearly, I quote the Croatian Pharmacy Chamber, their president who publicly said it three days ago at a press conference, I checked it out and the situation is not good. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15951	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15952	Thank you very much. Well, here's a fellow respected representative Ostojić said a whole series of incorrect allegations because he quoted an indicator from another country, not from Croatia. But I will, for a short period of time, lack of sister education in Croatia does not exist. In fact, in the education of nurses we are preceding, not only in the region but in Europe because we have made among the first all levels of education from the highest, so high professional education to the middle. We've done standardisation on their education, we've done teaching programs, we've educated educators, and we can say that today our nurses are at the top of Europe. So we don't have to fear their isolation, we have to fear their departure. They are already leaving even though we are not yet in the European Union. Do not be afraid of the pharmaceutical's debt, no other pharmacy has been bankrupt in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15953	Secretary of State Ante Plasimir Golem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15954	Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I need to clarify one situation because what's said here is going to cause a big alarm, including in public. In the discussion that is now being conducted, a lot of this is incorrect, a lot has been said and deliberately twisted, so I would just like to make it very clear and loudly. The Ministry of Health in cooperation with the Ministry of Science, in cooperation with the Agency for Professional Education and with the Agency for Higher Education in cooperation with the chambers concerned, this means practically all mechanisms of the Government of the Republic of Croatia have been working precisely on the problem of professions, equalisation of professions and status of professions in the Republic of Croatia compared to the European Union. And it's true, it should be said that Poland has had a problem, a problem that is not perceptive, the problem is, because I see you're not following, so you don't get it. They even lost the court in Strasbourg. So it was in a court of law in Strasbourg and it was lost in court. However, the status of Polish nurses and Croatian nurses cannot be compared. And to be exact, we reached out to that last mechanism that we had on hand, and I can tell you clearly here in this High House, in the 7th month we had so-called. "Pir" analysis by the European Commission, that all of what we are all saying is that the education system in the Republic of Croatia is at an envious level, that the organisations that are being done and constantly complemented at an envious level, that the education system is not only in several degrees but also in all others, at the height we can say that we can be satisfied to prove it. We have an informal report, a formal report we can expect within a few days and will be widely public and all of you are familiar and all reports are intonated positively. Secondly, calling the government that she didn't do anything for three years to educate the sisters and that there would be chaos that 30,000 nurses would lose their profession or something else, I have to say, at the very least, it's inconclusive. It is unserious for the simple reason that we have just used pre-accession funds and everything else organized and... seminars and all the other procedures that could and all used the mechanisms that we have had to put ourselves in a position that nurses in the Republic of Croatia can have every prerequisite to be automatically recognised not only for them 30 thousand in Croatia but also 2800 how many they are currently working in the European Union and whose status will depend on the status of nurses in the Republic of Croatia. Thus, as recently in public, Mr. Honorable Representative of the Expensive Medicines Fund prescribed that he had intended and that he had brought this fund, so today it is said that everything that has been delivered and employment, including a large category that has been adopted in 2000, has not been adopted. In the past four years of specialization, further training and all other things that have been the programme of this government, which was written in the strategy adopted by this High House in the last term, have been carried out, so today we do not have a doctor's stock exchange. And the doctor's problem should be open and should be honest and not attribute to itself, the first in public was presented by the Croatian Medical Association and the Croatian Medical Chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15955	Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Rajko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15956	A whole series of incorrect allegations. First of all, the sisterhood study isn't consistent. It is not in line with the countries of the European Union, they have 8+3, so three years of sisterhood study followed, a respected fellow secretary of state. So that's something that 300 ECTS points, 120 of them finished, you didn't admit it to them. They pay out of their pocket. I thank them. They pay out of their pocket, they finance themselves. That's a fact. It's a fact and it's wanted you not to admit it, so it doesn't matter who did what, absolutely and relevant. We have to help our nurses because we're going to fall down a pole. They also suggested bridging model, transition change, there were no feedbacks, so there was no reaction and that was the correcting of an incorrect quote. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15957	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. There is no need to prove that health care reform is needed in Croatia. That's when he admits to dr. Hebrang. Now why are we here getting bill proposals that are actually cosmetic of one nature, instead of getting laws that would mean true health reform. That's a question we don't have an answer to. We also see the Secretary of State and Dr. Hebrang is extremely pleased with the state of health, they are constantly boasting. The patients are unhappy. Indicators of numbers, financial indications indicate that the situation is catastrophic. You just won't admit those indicators. You say it's not like that, it's still okay, and it's gonna be okay, and if it's not okay, we all see it. Now what does this set of laws mean? I have the impression that he, now we're building a roof on rotten foundations, and you have a building permit. The only thing you don't even have a plan to do is make that building of health care, you don't have plans, you have no idea, all you have is a building permit, you get it in the election. You got the citizens' trust to do it, but you don't. Instead, here you are now sending a set of laws that say what, that when Croatia enters the European Union then Croatian doctors will be able to work in the countries of the European Union, and doctors from the countries of the European Union will be able to work in Croatia. Okay, we need to adapt, okay, good job. It's not a problem. And what happens? Well, that's dr. Hebrang said. Will our doctors remain for these 45 kunas spoken of by fellow Ostojić? Will he stay in Croatia? They're not crazy. Well, they're not crazy, they're going to Austria, Germany, Sweden, where doctors are going over the weekend. And who will treat our people? And those who come from the countries of the European Union, and come from Germany, Austria, Great Britain, will not. It will come from Bulgaria, from Romania and will have to know as much Croatian as it says here, so that they can achieve minimal communication with the patient, taken over by a history. Patients in Croatia will be in that position. Why? Well, because you didn't make a reform that would allow doctors to have decent salaries and not go out, because then those dangers wouldn't be there. But you're constantly short of money in the system because money is being spent irrationally, because it leaks everywhere, so clearly there's not enough to pay the doctor and of course there's going to be these black predictions. Because you didn't use the time, the mandate that gave you citizens to do it. We live, Croatia is a divided society, primarily socio-distributed. It doesn't need to be proved in the same particular way. 12.5% is spent less on food. And the richest spent 170m euros in 7 months on yachts. It is a picture, a social picture of Croatia. Riches become richer every day, poorer and poorer every day, and even for food. As it is throughout society, that's how it is in health care. Why should health care be different? We will have a situation that quality medical protection will only be able to get those who will be able to pay for it, and others, these poor, those who spend 12.5% less on food that God gives. It's the policy of this government, it promotes the decomposition, the social decomposition of this society. So she will not bring in the dividend tax, so she will not take away those who are the richest and who earn money on the shares. She will take taxes from those who have minimum wages, take taxes from pensioners, take from the poorest. It's the politics of this government. Please, every government has its own policy, this one has one. The citizens chose her, I guess the citizens know why they chose her. They will experience the government's choice, that the poor will grow poorer, richer and richer. We arrest doctors for taking bribes. Why is he giving bribes in the first place? So that someone could get medical care, be operated, be admitted to the hospital because it can't go on a regular basis, because the system doesn't work. And the people are, the one who has a bribe will give, the one who doesn't will not be admitted or will not be operated. He won't, he'll die. What is the picture of a health condition in health care best shows the story of expensive drugs, that's the lazirovka. The budget was passed, the minister was here, the 2008 budget envisioned 250m kuna for expensive medicines. Our colleague Jovanovic then gave the amendment and told the ministers, there won't be enough 250 million for you, give it up to 350 million kuna as long as it takes to get these expensive drugs. No, the minister was arrogant, there's enough money, the amendment's being rejected, it's enough, for positions intended enough money. It doesn't take 350 million. And then for eight months, these patients couldn't get their hands on an expensive drug. The Commission rejected their requests. Why? Well, not because the commissions are bad, but because there was no money for those expensive drugs because the minister refused the amendment. And he's not professional enough himself, and neither he nor those who've been putting that budget together, and your whole crew to tell him, ministers, really a man has a right. It takes at least 350 million kuna. And then what happens? Then we watch for five days on television when the minister allows the patient of Zadar, who is suffering from a rare form of leukemia to receive this expensive medicine within 7 days. The Minister is playing God. Young Zadranka, yes, someone else doesn't, and then she shows up on TV as a savior. Here, I'm, he's bragging, I intervened to get the cure without anyone asking him why this same patient was once rejected. The commission rejected her once, of course, I share her happiness, we all share her happiness because she finally managed to get a cure that meant her life, but she was once rejected by the commission because the system didn't work. And then comes the minister, God, who says that, I allow you young Zadranko to live. Here, live, I'll provide you with the cure. And what about those who died in those eight months because they didn't get the cure? Who will answer for those deaths? Because the minister was arrogant when the budget was passed and refused the amendment. He sentenced these people to death, how many? Secretary of State, give us their names and names. We're going to announce a common obituary because it's the minister's haughtiness and that's how your system works. To play. To play. To exploit, to actually abuse position, power, power. ... That is why we call on you to take the job and make a health reform, because health reform will make it impossible for the minister to intervene this arbitrationally. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Health reform will allow the system to function on its own, health reform will allow money not to fall apart but to concentrate where it is most needed. The reform will allow our doctors to have adequate salaries and not go abroad when this law enters into force, when it begins to apply, and until then it is only two years, no more than three. You spent four years of your last term in vain. You've done nothing, and as we can see, you're not starting anything better. You offer us here how to make a roof, and the foundations are no good for you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15958	Thank you. How many corrections of incorrect allegations. Mr. Representative Andrew Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15959	Thank you very much. I didn't quite understand Mr. Stazic's speech because I don't understand the hate speech, but several incorrect allegations could indicate themselves and understand the situation. Says colleague Stazic, the state of health is catastrophic. And what is the situation in those 180 countries that the world health care for the quality of health care class behind Croatia, if in Croatia, which is the 20th quality of 200 countries, is catastrophic? Another incorrect allegation is that only the rich can be treated in Croatian health care. According to the report last year, we had 18 million health services. If 18 million people are rich in Croatia, I am the luckiest man in the world. Unfortunately not, but again, my colleague Stazic spoke falsely in his famous speech. And in the end, it's not a lie, it's a heavy slander he deserves at least a lawsuit, accusing someone of being guilty of death and not having a cure. That's not true. No one died in Croatia because there is no cure, but someone could die of lies.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15960	Next amendment. Mr. Representative Nedjeljko Strikic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15961	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I must say that from this presentation of Mr. Stazic, I can no longer call him an esteemed representative because I, as a doctor, expected other doctors on the SDP side to lift the table for correcting the incorrect allegations. I'll quote, and that's something to deal with, I hope the doctor of the chamber: "Who in Croatia doesn't have money, bribes to get into the hospital, he dies." Eleven thousand doctors work in Croatia. Can Mr. Stazic accuse 11000 doctors in this assembly? Mr. Stazic, I think they deserve the least excuse, and I invite the Croatian medical chamber to listen to the stenogram and invite Mr. Stazic to talk. And Dr. Ostojic and Miranda Mrsic, I think they're offended too, unless it's what he said.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15962	Take down the correction Mr. Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15963	Thank you, Mr. President. A few corrections. One claim that those who don't have bribes will die. It's a scandalous claim, and I'm correcting it. True, we will all die one day regardless of whether we have or not, but in the context in which you said it, it is truly offensive. Second, you mentioned the minister and you said he was arrogant, that he was playing God, etc. The minister was nowhere to be boasted and nowhere to be played, but at some point he was correcting errors in the system he had. But if he hadn't done it then he'd be guilty again, then he'd be guilty again. Thus, he did what he did and did what he needed to do to correct all the mistakes that occur in the system and make it better as such. And I'd like to conclude at the end of your finding, you said the citizens chose this hair, and I guess they know why. I don't really underestimate the choice of these citizens and I believe they know why they chose this hair. And your claim of a group obituary, I think it truly deserves an apology from both the living and the dead. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15964	Next amendment. Mr. Representative Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15965	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This presentation of the esteemed representative of Stazic is truly amazing. I still find it surprising to correct that, immediately, I say the correction of the allegations, the government allows only the rich to be treated, the government taxes only the rich. That's just not true, Mr. Stazic. That's not true and that's not true. And what you said was only one who could be treated. Here are two distinguished professors, Mr Ostojić and Mrsic. I am sorry that Mr. Strickić and Mr. Ostojić laughed and now Mr. Mrssic has a smile on his face. On the claim that we are the ones who give bribes can be treated. Gentlemen, is that true? Tell your colleague, you're the one to treat, you're in those hospitals on our "Rebr" authority, then inform Mr. Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15966	Furthermore, Mr. Zubovicu, this is not a correction, but a comment. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Representative Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15967	Well, I mean, when Mr. Zubovic commented on my smile, then I can tell her that it wasn't a correction to an incorrect quote, it had nothing to do with the discussion. I can comment just as well that he never laughs.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15968	Okay, I've already said that this part doesn't belong to the correction. Did you want to? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15969	... Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15970	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15971	I'm surprised that we're talking about some artistic impression of a esteemed colleague of the dentist, our brilliant parliamentary representative is beyond measure to injure the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Vice President, and on the other hand he's looking at, like, mummics, body-leanguag, and I don't know what else.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15972	Madam Representative Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15973	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I must say, I feel extremely uncomfortable as a doctor after this debate by Mr. Stazic, who has presented a number of incorrect allegations. From the fact that Mr. Minister sentenced people to death, so a terrible accusation, Mr. Stazic. Who did he judge when he did? Never. And all these difficult patients know the procedure and know how to get the cure and get it. There's still an accusation that only the rich can be treated, that doctors receive bribes. Well, gentlemen, the doctors of the medical profession, so we all need to get up and condemn this. Professor Mrsic, Professor Osojic, it's an intrusion into our profession. I come from an infectious profession, so the profession that naturally receives patients who are poor. Look at the Infectious Disease Clinic all the infectious departments in this country, whether patients ever gave bribes were the poorest at all times received and looked at. I'm telling you. ... /The speaker has been disabled./...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15974	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Boris Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15975	Mr. Vice President, here I am not a doctor, but I simply don't know what to say, but I am rescribing the already known debates of fellow Stazic. To say that someone has been sentenced to death, that there is no cure, so, Mr. Stazier, you're declaring someone a murderer in advance. At the very least, you would be civilized at the level of this House where you are, because you too have been chosen by a part of the citizens, to apologize, and on my part I can tell you, shame has been upon you. The rasil scenario you're always talking about is beating up on your head so far, it's going to kill you when the voters come in front of the boxes, they showed you that last year.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15976	Replica. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15977	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Col. Stazic made one claim, which I think is fundamental in this health situation today, which is that after six months and after the budget rebalance, when some of the money was still given to the health care that I welcome because of the need to help healthcare, the burden fell on the poorest. The money came from inflationary pressure, i.e. the VAT paid by Croatian citizens in the first six months, and I think my colleague Stazic noticed well. You noticed very well that today in Croatia citizens on one side are much poorer, and on the other hand the rich are even richer. So an unfair distribution and health funding. And my colleague Hebrang, I don't know if you as a respected professor have diagnosed a new disease that means when someone agrees, they die, this one I don't know about, so you can explain it to us a little bit, or you can consciously calculate these 10%s that you're using, and that's where you're safe then. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15978	Replication response. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15979	It's true, colleague Maras, that I was talking about decomposition in our society, the social decomposition that is then visible in the segment of health. It was also visible through that participation that was introduced, and then later abolished under public pressure, so I hope on your demands as well. Why? Because it was one tax, an additional payment, an additional payment obligation for those who are poor, for those who are sick, these are mostly pensioners, they often go to the doctor. And that decomposition is also present in health care. It is incorrect, however, that it is quite incorrect, as the HDZ colleagues twist it, that I said it is only possible to obtain health care through bribery in Croatia. That's just not true. It's a twist of what I said. So that it might be possible to sue Agent Stazic. I said, however, that doctors are arrested in Croatia for bribery because they are arrested. Well, we can't say they don't get arrested. And I warned those who gave bribes to those doctors who were arrested, and one who was even unjustly convicted, they didn't give that bribe because they had extra money. But they didn't know where to go with the money. They went to bribe the doctor. Of course, if such an interpretation of what is evident, which we all know, if this kind of interpretation has come to pass, those words of me by the HDZ can be an insult to doctors, it wasn't even in my head. I agree completely, fully agree with my colleague Ostojić. Our doctors are phenomenal doctors. It didn't occur to me to charge them all with taking bribes and that's a fact-finding thing. If any of the doctors could have understood it that way, I apologize to him, for it was not said or meant to be so. But the fact is, and I repeat, that you have failed to establish a system that would eliminate the need, at all, to offer a doctor any bribe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15980	Secretary of State Ante Plasimir Golem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15981	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I have to intervene and I have to correct an incorrect assumption first, the minister is not intervened to have anyone get any medicine, nor will the minister ever intervene on it. As already said in the corrections of incorrect allegations, the minister, when it was found that there were problems in granting the approval, has passed a regulation in which way and within what time limits we will issue these approvals so that this would no longer happen. And the one who got the cure got an exclusive expert evaluation of the commission, not a financial assessment of the commission, so did the lady. Secondly, I must say, at this point the accusation given to a minister who is not here, I represent him as I represent him, that is, in front of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, not that it is embarrassing but calling the minister that in this way he has violated the position, I must say that is a violation of the position of the parliamentary representative because without responsibility he can cast such an accusation that the minister is God, that the minister influences, it is shameful. No drug has been affected and the minister has repeated it, and it is not true as quoted, the minister said in the media that he made sure that the system works because it is obvious that there was a problem in the system. And it has to be clearly reacted to and visibly. On corruption itself, however, my colleagues said the whole situation tells me. But then it's clear to me, maybe we're all a little misunderstood, because eventually we need to know the system, we're talking, I guess still about administrative fees and not about the participations they've been, they're going to be, they're being introduced to the Republic of Croatia long before this authority and they'll take a long time. And what was talked about, the administrative fee, it shows how much it is understood and how much it wants to understand the system. And I have to end up here and look back, that really listening today, and I would like your colleague, your esteemed representative, who, from 2000 to 2002, acted as Deputy Minister of Health and who allowed health care activities to go into public activity, who has brought a number of other such regulations that give these results today, that is how he thinks today, because I sign him for, according to doctors, to the nurses for everything he's said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15982	Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. ... Order! [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15983	Secretary of State, it is incorrect that you claim, it is incorrect that you claim that the system has enabled this young impediment an expensive drug. Her system was denied. Her request set six months ago for this expensive drug is a commission, commission or whatever it is called a rejection. She couldn't get to that drug until the minister got involved. You say the minister corrected the system error. So who's to blame for that system error? Me or the minister? Who made that mistake in the system? Not to accept the minister's responsibility for the system's mistake means to bury his head in the sand, but that means that mistakes will be repeated. Because if you're not ready to analyze the mistakes you've made, then how are you going to correct those mistakes?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15984	Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15985	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, after these... Correction of the quote, I thought for a moment that after Bajic's index, the Parliament is preparing a new action that might be called "the manual", I just don't know which departments someone should be in need of. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Every time we discuss laws that we have in line with Europe in this Chamber, a large number of colleagues say we have the primary goal of harmonising Croatian laws with the acquis of the European Union. And all the time I think that the primary goal in the Executive Board is to coordinate systems with European, education, culture, health and think that these laws are not so important in themselves when we coordinate them, but to follow the coordination of the system at this point in time with the Connecting System as Europe has. I also recall that in his report, the Ombudsman warned the Parliament that with frequent changes in legislation we are creating problems not only for the state administration, he also mentioned new phenomenal forms, and he also mentioned a health system that is not prepared to monitor and implement so many major changes and that some problems arise. Of this set of health care laws, I'll only talk about one thing and that's the one about health care. The complete change or essence of this change is concerned with the Croatian Institute for Health and Safety at Work and Medicine. What is the great news of Genesis? 1st of this year, with a slight reminder that Croatia had medical work, so we did it in '95. as inspectively abolished, we are now returning it to the health system but unfortunately Croatian workers are again becoming test rabbits in the process of Croatian harmonisation with European standards. Why am I saying that? In the field of labour medicine, Article 19 of the Law lists 12 points that this specific health care of workers includes. Mr. Secretary of State who of the 12 points referred to in Article 19 or Article 1 of the amendment and supplement says that medical specialists have curative treatment for patients? I'm asking other colleagues and colleagues to help me out which of these 12 points prescribes that medical specialists have curatives? Perhaps this under the 11th participation in the measures of professional rehabilitation? Or the one in diagnostics? Or the one that prescribes that medical work experts organise the provision of first aid and emergency medical interventions at the place of work? But the fact that medical specialists are likely to have had to negotiate the curatives with the minister referred to in Article 19(2). Mr. Secretary of State, how many medical specialists do we work in Croatia? How much of Croatia today has a specialist in medical work? How many specialists in medicine work, for example, in Međimurska, Varazdinska and Koprivnica County? Somewhere around 800,000 people in Croatia are working where health care is important at the workplace of prevention, health education and curatives for work injuries and professional illnesses. Not for everyone, but of these 800 grand, I'm sure. What's the standard of medical work specialists? How many patients does he have contracts? In primary health care, about two thousand, one thousand 900, one thousand eighty-fifty. But about two thousand. How many doctors specialize in medical work specialists this year and what are your plans until at least 2012. Why do I ask you that? The media reports daily or weekly on the problems of workers who have had an injury to work and who have to follow the instructions, check-ups of medical specialists working up to 50, 60 kilometers away, as they are no longer authorized by their doctors, their doctors. The law stipulates that again, and everything works with us, Parliament is only giving the frameworks, so Article 38 also says that a network of contracted subjects of medical work, with the agreement of the health minister, brings this newly established institution. How is the network you brought to the Croatian Health Insurance Office filled? With the previous consent of the Minister of Health. So does the network exist and how it's filled? If this is not about the new system or the addition of a health system that you simply cannot implement within 8 days of the entry into force of this law, because we do not have doctors. Is it not then said in laws and negotiations with Europe that we need a transitional period of two, three, four or five years for the medical system of work in Croatia to be restored and reached the level that it had until 1995 when we abolished it if we gave it the curative. Who are we kidding that by harmonising with this law, we will have a European standard of medicine? We won't. We won't because the net isn't even filled with 10%. We will not because we have forced the workers to spend their own money travelling through Croatia looking for specialists of medical work who are the only one authorized to treat him, write instructions, approve of the illnesses and injuries at work because this is the general doctor of his general practice who has treated him for 20 years can no longer give him. In the report, the explanation and your opening statement nothing about it. And now it's been 9 months since this office works or should function and this model should as well be funded in Croatia. And finally, how does the health authority treat the Croatian Parliament and health insurance companies? Mr. Secretary of State on 14 March of this year, the Croatian Parliament, with the consent and consent of you on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, reached a conclusion which required the Health Institute to issue a guide for the needs of the insurance company with instructions on the rights and manner of their achievement. On that same day, the same obligation was made by the same Parliament to the Croatian Pension Insurance Office. Two weeks before the deadline of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, the Croatian Parliament informed that the Assembly's conclusion had been carried out, Mr Rukavina sent a letter and several of these books that they shared throughout Croatia. On March 14th this year, this Assembly, with your consent, has also committed the health authority to try to print and free share this book for citizens. It wasn't done, and you agreed it was necessary. And tell me, is there more value in the health system than in retirement when insurance or patients know what rights they have, where and how they can achieve them? I think that should be under P.Z.E. if you consider that only bureaucratic harmonisation of the legal rules brings well-being to Croatian workers, insurance companies in the health system. They don't care about the pace of harmonisation of the law. Tempo and quality, implementation and structure of systems from which they will benefit, progress, improvement and nothing else. And the speed of running and synchronising to satisfy the form can only satisfy the Brussels bureaucrats. Maybe you, too. No one else.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15986	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15987	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. A colleague, Lesar, incorrectly stated that the Croatian health system is not ready to monitor all the changes ahead of it and that is why we have what we have. On the contrary, the Croatian health system is closely monitoring all technological and therapeutic achievements, certainly harmonising its legislation with EU legislation with appropriate dynamics to welcome when, at the time of its entry into force. And thirdly, I also mentioned the World Health Organization's opinion that the availability and quality of health care in our country is high at 22nd place speaks for itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15988	Replica. Vice-President Željka Antunović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15989	Thank you very much. At the beginning of his presentation, Lesar spoke, voiced his opinion on what would happen when we passed these laws in terms of compliance with the European Union and the purpose of this harmonisation in general in relation to the whole system. I'd like to say something about it, because I think he's either missed it or maybe he has a different opinion to say about it because I haven't heard anyway. It is not irrelevant to align the laws, but what should be in the first place for all and for us who are here to decide on the final appearance of this law, but also for the people of the ministry who are creators and promoters of these laws, is that in the given circumstances, in the moments when certain things need to be harmonised, in the moments when we need to preserve the positive and quality achievements of the health system of the Republic of Croatia, in order to ensure that the quality and availability of the health system is increased. I won't be a disaster and I won't speak words like some of them have spoken here, but I also won't agree with those who are just happy and who think it's all wonderful and great in Croatia. Every service available and quality at peak. Nevertheless, daily we read catastrophic texts about patients dying from the use of some drugs that are not lethal. But apparently there has been a misunderstanding and insufficient time, insufficient availability of doctors and patients. Now that's where I wonder what's going to happen in this respect, because that's the only thing that must matter to us, especially in terms of having 2 and a half billion accumulated annual losses in the health system. What will we do when we pass these laws in that sense to repair and provide patients? And just one last remark that I'm not answering again. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Vice President, I really think the Secretary of State is in his conduct, not entering the contents of what he said, that he's misbehaving in the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15990	Replica response, Agent Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15991	Thank you very much. counterpart Antunovic, the harmonisation of the law is important not only in the health system, but in general. However, I express my disdain and express myself because all we do is comply with the very small shifts in the systems they cover. It is also important to me that both the World Bank and the World Health Organization and the European Union think about us, but somehow what they think and how they see us, we have left out in this case health insurance and patients what they think about it. I don't know why it's so important to us all of a sudden that someone else thinks about us, and it doesn't even matter what the citizens of this country think anymore. So that's why I'm always asking whether we're just going to follow the speed of formal harmonisation of regulations or we're going to start synchronising systems and talk to the leaders of the resistors who are less and less present in this hall. And the minister last time he explained some of his laws I saw six months ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15992	Ms. Representative Sonja Simunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15993	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Listening to this statement from my colleague Lesar, I simply can't help but support his story with a concrete example from the field. Namely, I have a letter in my hand from a medical doctor who came to me. I'll just quote two, three sentences. He says: “However, the new Institute was operating in 1.1.2008 with inconceivable negative consequences primarily for workers who were supposed to get better medical care, since there is a tighter and provision for a specialist in medical work to take over from family doctors and complete care of treatment for injuries at work. This has led to the wandering of sick and injured workers from one infirmary to another and many other administrative problems, and many new patterns that have been buried by the new institution have completely paralyzed our daily work." Then, “although we are told that we can get all possible clarifications from the authorities. We were practically alone, because our phone or fax-examination memos weren't answered, or the answers were contrary. We are instructed to inform ourselves daily on their website that we have not found any useful information to help us. We are only told that we will have to conclude a contract with the institution concerned, and when we saw those contracts, only in 6 months 2008 did no one want to sign it because it is completely unacceptable." It says "there is a big problem of pay, unfinished services, they are messy and very late. The accounts return due to banal small things or to God's false fulfillment of a single form, and part of the services is not paid at all, we're being blackmailed that nothing will be paid for not signing that humiliating contract, etc." Here, just another sentence to end. “Many colleagues who have not signed the contract in their homes in person, but have been signed by the director of the health care center because it is known under quotes that are waiting for him unless he follows orders from the central office. As a result, most of the medical work specialists have retired or are planning early retirement, which will further reverse this profession in Croatia." Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15994	Replica response, Agent Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15995	I am very glad that my colleague set an example that was addressed by a doctor. However, because of my debate, it was where I was approached by patients, two specific cases such as those that had to go to a doctor of medical work. They couldn't find them. They called me and asked me what the new doctors in Croatia were like and how to get to them. The district offices of the health care institution were not even ready to give local information to people who had agreed on medical work since the beginning of this year, so people had to manage to find them, report to them, get instructions and they could finish the diagnostics, and later therapy. So when such a big change is made, without any preparation of the public, education and information, there is then an objective responsibility for people who manage the health system as much as they seem to laugh at it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15996	Ms. Representative Biljana Borzana. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15997	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Agent Lesar, at the beginning of your presentation, you said you were not an expert to be able to answer whether it was a curative part of the medical work. Unfortunately, I am a professional person and my colleagues in medical work do not know how to answer that question, because where we are trying to get answers we cannot get them, decisions are made that are being withdrawn and she has passed and this current government is obviously known, I will remind you of the administrative fee that has been withdrawn as well. Doctors of medical work will do curative work. Then you realize they're not equipped for it. The doctor of general medicine should treat injuries and the like. Those poor, not given God to break a man's leg, say in the workplace, he with a broken leg "hits" from his doctor to a specialist in medical work that may be within 40 kilometers, returns to his doctor. All in all, one total chaos and I'm telling you, you've been great at detecting the problem even though you're not those professions, but even those who are these professions unfortunately cannot give us that answer, and as my colleague said, there is no institution, or institution, the institution is completely deafening itself to the question and dilemmas of doctors who simply don't know what to do with a patient. It's no problem, the doctors will endure, but the patients are the ones who suffer, and that's what that word means, so it's sad to break it all on their backs.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15998	Replicate response, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u15999	I am pleased that you have confirmed my doubts about the content of Article 19, and after the contracts that the doctors had to sign, so perhaps this is an opportunity when a sublegal regulation by the Minister in the obligation of a doctor of medical work has put in place what the law does not say, a public call to the Medical Chamber to initiate a judicial dispute, i.e. a constitutional suit for enforcement and such rape to do something that the law did not foresee to defend the dignity of the profession, but also to uphold the law that this Parliament is making, and then to enforce its sublaws extends and introduces something that Parliament has not done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u16000	Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u16001	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Lesar, you have rightly mentioned a large number of illnesses, we lose more than 1.5 billion kuna each year. This says, therefore, not only is our health picture in Croatia, but it also speaks of the social picture in Croatia which, as the colleague Stazic rightly concluded, is increasingly disintegrating. The smaller part is getting richer, and the ones that were middle-class yesterday are just getting more and more poor. So, the system, in a way, people who are unhappy with work, out-of-work people just run off to disease. And what's going on? Do doctors have to correct system failures, and what happens next? That our doctors who have approved the sick will be punished by the administrative authority for this. Well, that's nowhere in the world. And Mr. Secretary of State, instead of introducing order into the system, he would rather introduce order among MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u16002	Mr. Representative Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u16003	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Secretary of State probably won't be able to tell me that I've been in the administration before and I hope that the SDP won't be as guilty as the Turks on this, the SDP always in health care for everything that's wrong is guilty, and what's good is the current administration. But let's go back to our story that, here goes all morning, which is that the system can be catastrophic, and it can't be, but when you have numbers, then you look at numbers, and you don't look at impressions. If we say that the number of services in primary health care is in decline, if we say that the number of services in specialist consular protection is on the decline, if we say that we're going to raise the number of Bedoudans, it means that hospitals are simply converting those funds that they've received by increasing the limit into more Belgradeans, so in this way they're spending their limit nicely, but they don't treat more patients because they're waiting lists more and more, then that's saying something about the system. It says that the system doesn't work, and what I said and in the opening statement, Dr. Golem was at the military headquarters, he was a war surgeon, so he knows what the doctrine of a patient means, transporting from himself. My colleagues in primary health care because they're in the head care system, they're simply not interested in treating patients in primary health care, they're writing instructions and then sending the patient away, to specialist-consular care, to hospitals, so we're growing white and thus not spending money. If the system wanted to solve something, then it would first solve the primary health care system, which the note was allocated this year less than it was allocated before, which again says that people had to manage, you know, people in primary health care live and work in market circumstances because we did '95. years of rule that didn't become the law, but we stick to it as a law they went to so-called. renting, so they're private, but they don't have their own office, they just rent an office, so they have all the rights like, but they don't have a place where those rights come true. Instead of going that way and trying to solve the increase in the number of services being done in specialist-consular protection, in primary health care that are the cheapest and that 80% of the problem is solved in primary health care, the previous health administration has set out to abolish the home health care to jump the entire health care activity is the current health care administration, thank God, I hope it has stopped because it is no longer talking about it, but it has not moved forward towards the development of the home of health because this is what Croatian health is recognised by, this is what the press model of health is recognising. It also moved into mental health centers. We have major problems with PTSD, we will have more and more, and it would be the most logical if these problems were solved in a place where these people who are suffering from this disease work, or where they live. A single mental health center was founded, and then it stopped. So it went one way, and then it stopped. Is it because he doesn't have the strength or because he doesn't want to move on, or maybe he wants to privatize his primary health care completely? What the whole world is doing, and it's doing that primary health care grouping up, and we're finally going towards group practice, and we're going towards finally giving them some other type of ultrasound, type of ECG, type of small surgery, and that people are finally coming to their primary health care not only for prescriptions and for instructions, but for proper healthcare. What we also see in the system today is the explosion of the recipe. We're going to have over 40 million recipes this year, which means that's the cost of a 280 million kuna system. Every recipe costs us 7 kuna. Without introducing an electronic recipe and control in a system where this administration obviously won't because it doesn't want to introduce money spending control on a prescription, then they're trying to solve things where it's possible to limit resources to hospitals, to limit resources... protect or make a big pump around the Fund for Expensive Medicinal Products instead of solving the problem of prescription costs because, for example, we spend more than 30 million euros on statins, we spend on osteoporosis, we spend on antihypertensives, and it is known everywhere in the world that... means that the percentage of patients who take permanent medicines is less than 15%. [[You don't understand.]] So we're funding these funds with a home pharmacy. And instead of going in that direction to make people realize that what they're going for is a check and it's costing, we're simply letting that system work on its own, and this year we're going to have over 3 billion kunas in that prescription fund again. When we talk about paying in the system, then I'm ashamed to talk to my colleagues from Slovenia, so sometimes I also talk to colleagues from Bosnia and Herzegovina and these other countries around us. Do you know how long it is to pay in those countries? 60 days. Now, at this point in Croatia, whether we are talking about hospitals or talking about pharmacies, the average salary is about 360 days. We've got hospitals that haven't paid, and now they're almost there for three years, and then everybody's surprised, everyone's talking about it, but no concrete moves like we see today. When we talk about the famous limits, then we've raised those famous hospital limits, but simply because we've taken the pharmacies. So one principal ten years ago built a whole building in the hospital by not paying for the big drugs for two months, and that's what's happening now. The deadline has been extended, so no funds have been found in the budget but are simply extended due days and is then saved in the system around 100 million a month. The human system continues to generate losses. Generates losses, generates further generation until the health reform itself is done. It means reforming primary health care, returning home health care as a health care unit. We provide specialist-consular protection in health homes. Why don't I, as an intern, work on Rebr, work at the health care center, and that's cheapest, is my working hours in the health care home than in the hospital. But when we talk about my salary, I agree with my colleague Ostojić, our salaries are miserable. But you know what happens now in Istria? The waiters and chefs who worked in Italy where the recession is now come to Croatia to work because there is a higher salary here. We gave the judiciary high wages, expected a more effective judiciary. The judiciary is what it is, the European Commission has said what it has said. I think doctors should have paid specialists at the county hospital, judge of the county court, because it is not less responsible and clearly in that segment then go to other healthcare professionals and nurses etc. Because it's known that bribery and corruption can't be eradicated if we have a person who's been bribed. Why is there no bribery and corruption in Germany? You can't even take candy there because it's thought that I have enough as a doctor of funds, so I'll buy the candy I want. And when we talk about going abroad, the last 2002 he was a professor. Novik, then it's said we're going to start a major cardio surgery, it's been six years since cardio surgery has no C either, but that's why we're going to Linz and paying and developing a heart surgery center in Linz. I think that Croatia deserves to have its heart surgery center and when we have it then we will know that the reform has succeeded. Mr. Secretary of State, unfortunately, there is no reform, and when it will be, we don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u16004	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u16005	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. A colleague, Mrsic, incorrectly stated that doctors in primary health care are not interested in treating patients, so they are sent further. It's just not true. Many colleagues and fellow doctors are making an immeasurable effort in terms of good quality and service to their patient, and they are not just doctors in primary health care, the on-call culprits for all. So we have to look at the other side, that's another question. And this consumption of prescription drugs is saying something, I guess, to the availability of healthcare and all those medicines that are, and when our people are sick and in any case, and we need to make additional efforts, as was said at the beginning of this debate, all of us together to invest on education and everything to improve this system even better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u16006	The replica of Madam Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u16007	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. You told your colleague Mrssic and you're right when the numbers speak, or you also said that the problem in primary health care should be dealt with systematically. In fact, I am aware that Croatian health care has insufficient resources and that is why it must be more responsiblely deployed. For example, Croatian dentistry is the top of European dentistry for the quality of human beings, as well as the school system which shows now that we can compete in health tourism throughout Europe. So we're highly educated professionally, but we're not able to achieve a responsible patient for our health, of course. Why? Just because you mentioned the system does not recognize the importance of prevention, or even child dentists are forced to enroll adult patients and to work prosthetics even though they would use much more of their expertise if they were actually only working with children. The state of oral health that you mentioned that numbers speak, the state of oral health of children is much worse than before. Much worse than 15 years ago. Three to four times we've got more cavities than we used to. Therefore, neglecting prevention encourages health spending, i.e. the state spends huge money on oral health. However, prevention services are paid primarily in the European Union, and all other costs go to the back of a well-educated patient. I therefore believe that the importance of prevention is very important, i.e. that we should recognize it and work systematically to improve primary health care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u16008	Replication response. Mr. Representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u16009	Respected representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić said exactly that drug consumption is something that is the main stumbling block. In all this and consumption, greater drug consumption is not better available healthcare because at the top of this drug use are antibiotics. Try to get an antibiotic in primary health care anywhere in the world, and you'll see what kind of restrictions you meet there. In addition, better availability of healthcare is seen in how many problems are solved in primary health care, and at this point we have a decline in the number of services in primary health care. Writing recipes isn't a health service. Writing recipes or writing manuals can't be a health care service, it's a medical service. Health care is when a patient comes to you and you solve his problem. What you can see in the system and what we can't get away from regardless of the lagerette is that we have a drop in the number of services, that we have a drop in the number of services in the specialist... protect, that we have an increase in waiting lists in hospitals and that's what we're in right now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Without reform, it won't go any better.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u16010	Mr. Representative Rajko Ostojić, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u16011	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. As for medicines, with antibiotics 2rd, 3rd place depending on year to year are unfortunately anxiolytics, so medicines that help us treat anxiety, anxiety. It's not good, it's not good. Although in the vision of the development of health care this century they say that in 2030, 2035 depression will be disease number one. I fear that in Croatia it will be significant earlier. So let's say, in the arranged states, it's 2030, and we'll have it very soon, if it isn't now. If we keep this up with the delay, wait. So that's where the Mental Health Center is right now. Great idea, Mr. Honorable Representative, colleague Mrsic spoke of it, but only briefly so I will ask him for a replica he simply shut down, there is no key leading man from a month ago. He didn't live in a country that unfortunately has a large number of our citizens, defenders, war veterans with PTSD. All of us who were at war in '91, not later than '91. And then there weren't 500 grand, but 150 grand we know what it means to be in uniform one day, we know what '91' means. To go to the battlefield, we know how many of our great men, today's war veterans have PTSD. And we don't have a mental health center. Unbelievable. And he tells us world health care. Otherwise, the order should be respected, Mr. Secretary of State. There are 153, we are chosen by Croatian citizens, and you are appointed. I congratulate you again on that. Democracy is a procedure, a procedure to respect order. In other words, when a representative spoke as I spoke two hours ago, you immediately answered, you corrected and I clearly respect it and I returned. After that came the whole series, a set of exhibitors where I didn't speak and the secretary of state spoke to me again. Obviously, there's something called an ex-post mind, but it's not a procedure. Otherwise, procedures are facts. The facts, Mr. Vice-President, that the SDP unfortunately never ran a health care facility, was never the SDP's minister of health in the 19 years of the Croatian state, and that's a fact. The fact is, therefore, that unfortunately he never ran health care and the fact is that, and I won't mention names because it's rude, but Mr. Secretary of State mentioned that whoever ran the health care at the time of the coalition government is now with you in the coalition a signator of health. Therefore, democracy is a procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u16012	Replication response. Mr. Representative Miranda Mrsic. ... It was a music box once, so it was... [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]] Is the technique okay? ... It's not working. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go. Dear Representative, my colleague and friend Rajko Ostojić mentioned the Croatian Institute for Mental Health. Found it, placed by one director, that director resigned, the missing Croatian Institute of Mental Health. Founding one mental health center in the House of Health West, as far as I know that center works, we said or they said that these centers would be made in all the homes of health. They're gone, obviously, that mental health isn't important to this administration. The World Health Organization put it in one place. Lucky for me, this health care guy ran the HDZ, so he got him right where he was. Luckily that's the situation it is, because today if it were good, we wouldn't be talking about it here today, but they'd say health care is wonderful, wonderful, phenomenal. The SDP will show when it comes to power what health care Croatia deserves, health care when healthcare is needed for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia means health care for everyone, not just for some. ... [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u16014	Ladies and gentlemen, there are still nine MPs for these agenda points. We're trying to vote on the debated earlier on points and these points to be somewhere between 13:30 and 14 so there would be a vote between 13:30 and 14:00. Without a break, we would argue, and we are trying to conclude these nine debates in such a way that the sooner the vote is. Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go. Here's to the pay phone because...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u16015	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. So here is the debate here today, certainly in this set of laws, has its meaning, and although these changes should and are more related to this harmonisation with European legislation, they always bring one broad debate. The wider discussion is whether these are important topics and I will only make one contribution in this debate to the bill of amendment and the addition of the Law on Pharmacy, because it is visible from this point on that it is another of the urgent amendments to this law. In 2003 this law was passed, and in the third month we had one urgent acceptance. It was related to the status of county pharmacies. It is certainly evident that there is a need to draft a new law, one debate, and with the aim of bringing pharmaceutical activity into the function of the patient and the protection of his health. This change to be made in a package of health laws and, as is also said in the material implementation of Directive 2005/36. on the recognition of qualifications in domestic legislation and requires the adaptation of legal legislation in the field of the recognition of foreign educational qualifications, and in areas covered by the exercise of certain health professions. These amendments to the law will put an end to the obstacle that exists in the current law on the conditions for carrying out the pharmaceutical activity of citizens of the Member States of the European Union. And that finished pharmacists will be able to carry out pharmaceutical activities in Croatia without a professional examination, it is explained why and how, and the only condition is that they must know the Croatian language at least at the level necessary for uninterrupted and necessary communication with the patient. I'm going to try to say something about this and about pharmaceutical activities, because I think that's what knowledge of Croatian language is about most of these laws in this activity. The level of knowledge of Croatian language for each activity is certainly important, as Professor Hebrang said. However, I think there's something more important in this section, because we have a patient contact with the pharmacist here, it's the last contact with one healthcare professional before taking the prescribed treatment. The doctor has, his affairs, conversations, medical tests are medically, tests are written he can read, like cholesterol, like I don't know sugar, etc. However, now that we come to this part when we issue this medicine we come to the fact that indeed one who will work must know the Croatian language well. That is why it is important that the pharmacist who issues the medicine, and I must point out that the pharmacist is not a trader, because often you identify him with the trader, says it is the same trade, but he is not, he is a health care professional, he has a patient in front of him, and he has to and he can explain well how this medicine works and any side effects that can be expected. It is he who will return and first hear feedback if something with this medicine has not happened well and has not been used well by that patient. Knowing the language is also the wording of the pharmacist to issue the medicine is useful and important, because we also have a number of cases where accidents with catastrophic consequences occur. Here's what I'm going to say is one example I've heard. After three days, a husband came in and said that his wife was taking the medicine, not better, but worse, and she had already taken three pills. What was that about? It was vaginas, so they use it quite differently. Now you see there's a pressure coming on that pharmacist right now. Why, like everything else, it happens. And so one question is asked, how will a pharmacist coming from another country, another speaking area, have knowledge of Croatian? I think that's very important. Today also when we have cases of prescriptions of various colors, I don't know, red, white, etc. supplemental medications, hand-to-hand sales without prescriptions, certainly good understanding with a patient in the issue of the medicine is very important. Another issue that is related here, and for this part of the possibility of working as a pharmacist, which will come outside Croatia, is also the issue of lack of pharmacists working in pharmacies. In some, it is in one shift, and more quality work is disabled if there is no pharmacist, but a technician issues drugs, which is not really allowed. However, if we have a pharmacist on the other side of the counter who has a poor relationship with a patient, the problems could be even bigger. Therefore, I propose that we define precisely what level of knowledge of Croatian language is to carry out the pharmaceutical work on its own. I think it's very important and that it's not in the law, but in the accompanying acts, the rules should still be told and written that we know what level it is, which will certainly satisfy and do the job. At the beginning of the debate, I mentioned the need to create a new complete Law on Pharmacy. Why? Because at this point we are at the crossroads of the management of pharmaceutical activity. On one half there are small pharmacies, and on the other there are chains of pharmacies that are owned or owned by certain employers or wholesales or trade chains, and they are included. Therefore, it is necessary to define clear criteria for opening a pharmacy, which means that today we have an opening outside the health system, selling medicines without prescriptions in them, etc., and also for their work. We have one shift in some two shifts, we have cases of individual cities, municipalities not being covered by this duty, that I don't know from Valpo's have to come to Osijek, only in Osijek are the same cases. And cases of government regulation or the last addition, we were only saving county doctors from taking over from the wholesale or even worse than the trade chains. That was the case if we hadn't passed an amendment to that law, probably some county pharmacies would have been privatized by urgency. However, it was only a firefighting measure to avoid the adverse effects that would affect patients and their health. Criteria should be set to ensure the stability of the pharmacy network and to prevent pressure from all those who want to learn in pharmacy exclusively because of the expected profit. That's why we need to consider a new law that will also make users of pharmaceutical services, and that is primarily the biggest user is HZZO to place in relation to not being a brake of development. This question of not paying, I won't talk about it now because I talk a lot. That non-payment destroys small pharmacies. One employee who owns it, too. They're bought by large chains and they stay to work with them as employees. There's a lot of these cases already. And also, what Professor Hebrang said to Pozega County Pharmacy, he said he didn't know which one she left, she went into bankruptcy unfortunately. And finally, we need one stable link in the development of pharmacy in Croatia and I think it's a new law and also adequate behavior of the biggest buyer and that's HZZO. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u16016	Thank you. Ms. Representative Biljana Borzana. Here you go. ... Same here, because it's the same on the microphone. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So try what it's like, is it working or not working? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u16017	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here I will try to make a contribution to this warning that we are having shorter discussions, and I will try not to light a yellow light, let alone a red light. In fact, when I saw this item on the agenda, I knew it wasn't some big reform procedure, but I told myself it would be very nice to propose at least a minimal improvement in one small segment of healthcare or to finally offer some constructive proposal that would result in at least a little stopping the poor development of the situation in our health care. It would be wonderful if we could discuss in the Assembly today some proposals that would reduce the loss of HZZO in compulsory health insurance from 636, to at least 635 million kuna, or that we could discuss proposals that would result in the absence of a reduction in health care services while at the same time increasing costs, or that we had the opportunity to discuss how our health care can monitor world trends, how to finally get the patient's approval in time for the expensive medicine when it can already be used and not later when it is late and similar. But none of that in these amendments to the law and then it seemed comforting to me, let's at least be working medicine, that's what I'm really interested in, said', I guess someone at the ministry finally heard the cry of patients who were just together with medical specialists off the hook without knowing where to turn, how to take care of a patient who died at work. But it's not gonna happen. The situation in the medical segment of work is simply today unsustainable. I've already mentioned an example of a patient who lives and works in the White Manastir, has a firm that has a signed contract with a medical doctor in Osijek, has a work injury, and he has to walk from his doctor to a specialist looking for help to adequately treat his injury and to take care of his illness. Someone mentioned here today, it will reduce the rates of illness, it is in my opinion absolutely impossible because when you complicate the system, when you complicate the man who is injured, because of all those intense walks, waiting for tests, therefore, there is no systematic problem solving, it will certainly be longer and longer on sick leave and not shorter. When we add that since the establishment was founded for health protection, the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, health protection at work, has started late payment. Doctors completely, in fact, invoice the done job, the service done, but the payment is late, some are paid everything for January and February of this year, after that as if they were doing nothing. If we had understood until now he had been, until before these changes, the system was such that people were coming into the doctor’s office of medicine work, he would have examined it given his conviction capable or incompetent and it mainly consisted of medical work. It's not a good approach either, it's far from a job as a worker and it's not sustainable. But this is even worse now because doctors in medicine work are covered in administration, little is the patient's business, and one word is chaos. This situation that is now happening in the medicine of work does not help the patient, nor does a doctor of family medicine, without saying that it is also affecting the doctor of the medical work, i.e. I have already mentioned it. So, my perhaps naive desire and utopian idea that today we will hear something fundamentally about what is going to change this chaotic situation, obviously, clearly, that it has indeed been at the level of utopia and that this is not about any constructive proposals but about purely cosmetic changes in terms of adapting to the European Union. Of course, adjustment must be made and done through the law, but it is disappointing that nothing fundamental in health care changes, and change is more than necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u16018	Thank you. Mr. Agent Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u16019	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs, despite several statements made from this place, I am still afraid that we will not be in line with Europe until we have established the educational standards of those healthcare professionals and that we should implement these standards in a European way and not in a Croatian way. I'm afraid over 20,000 nurses will not be educated in a European way. Because the European way prescribes a very specific procedure, as well as content and formal elements in all of this together. Similarly, we have established some forms of what we have called adult education but still not lifelong learning in which there are a whole series of differences and thus those courses that we have offered 20 and a few thousand nurses who have been educated in the old system, which are numerically significantly insufficient to cover all or at least most of them have not done properly. In order for a nurse to be educated according to European standards, she must conduct a professional or university study with a number of European credit points. In order to be able to obtain European credit points after schooling, courses that take forms of schooling must be accredited or have a license with a set number of credit points for each of the subject(s) absorbed. That's unfortunately not the case with us yet. And so I would ask and ask, in fact, for the Ministry of Health to define its needs, deliver them to the Ministry of Science so that the Ministry of Science knows in which time limits and ways to try to meet the needs of health care. Secondly, for several years, it has been practice in Europe in very complex jobs to educate laboratory leaders. There is no such interdisciplinary study in Croatia at all, which would be called the head of the laboratory and experts who have been educated abroad for the information they have personally passed on to me, and they will soon address the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education cannot be employed because it is a specialist university study that requires 300 points of credit, because there is no systematisation in any hospital they have addressed or in the Ministry of Health that would show the need for these staffs and a suitable job. So these are just two examples. I'm afraid there's more. And therefore it would be opportunistic and optimal if we were to adapt to Europe not only verbally but also substantially and to prepare Europe... doing certain jobs, therefore, real reforms, not just stories about it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Given the amount of time I'll stand there, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u16020	Replica, Mr. Representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u16021	Mr. Flego said he was tried, tried to build a system of nursing education and that this system was offered. Mr. Secretary of State also stated that this system was implemented. This system is not implemented because sisters, nurses, if they want to get those 300 ets points, they have to pay it out of their own pocket. We know what nurses' salaries are, and the system didn't recognize it. The system should recognize that these sisters are not guilty because they have such a number of points but that they need to be educated but that it goes to the burden of the state. This is what Slovenia did, and Slovenia started it before it entered the European Union so that they have almost 80% of licensed nurses, and what will happen to us when we join the European Union that we will have 25 thousand medical nurses assistants which I must admit that given the quality of our nurses, something is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u16022	Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u16023	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This high place of Croatian health on this World Health Organization list is anyway the merit of all those who work in health care. So almost ten thousand doctors, nurses and their technical staff. All those who do their job fairly despite the minimum wage. In any case, it is not the merit of this ministry, nor the merit of this government, but the merit of the people who work in health. Perhaps the best on the state of Croatian health recently showed HTV's show where Mr. Secretary of State had just hosted. I remember there was a lady he eventually promised not directly on the show but when he saw all the documentation that would help her personally. So the situation in Croatian health care is such that this lady should have come to the show in order to reach the secretary of state so that he eventually promised to help her. Not through institutions, not through the health system, but through HTV. Croatian healthcare is not available to all citizens today, so I would ask someone to explain to me that a pensioner who has a pension somewhere between 1600 and 1900 kuna, I am not talking about these parliamentary pensions, privileged pensions that can even be made available to him when for a prescription or medicine on a list must additionally after that monthly survival pay 10, 20 or 30 kuna per prescription. Or, for example, the worker, here today I was just reading in the paper, so that it doesn't turn out to be a commercial for a company and a parliamentary representative where it goes down several times to a minimumer of 2100 kuna and I also don't see any possibility that someone who has such small incomes can afford even the medicines they receive from Croatian health care. There are also families in social programmes, multi-member families and so on. In any event, the health situation is affected by the health infrastructure itself. It is very difficult sitting in ministries or visiting hospitals here in Zagreb to see the state of the hospital outside the centre of Croatia. Here's the Ossetian Hospital, Osijek Clinical Hospital. Perhaps someone walks up to the one, the nuclear medicine department, to go to a number of health homes located in both the ministry and the county or, for example, that, after several questions and requests from both the county and the city of Djakova towards the government and the health ministry, to support the work of a student birth home that is gravitated by nearly 100,000 inhabitants. So for every birth, you don't go to Osijek or Slavonski Brod. There is simply no answer to such requests. And it is not the authority of the city and the local self-government unit to co-finance in that part an institution that primarily allows the birth of Djakovcan and then Croats. At the very end, Croatian health care also shakes up numerous affairs. The other day we had opportunities to see that other institutions were not immune to the “Index” affair. I will only mention here the “Diagnosis 1” and “Diagnosis 2” affairs that have shaken Croatian health care. A doctor who was accused of this one from Rijeka is now in Mostar. Sit tight. What's he doing in Sarajevo? The question of what does this one do, do we even have a signed contract with neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina? The health reform itself does not exist in the extreme for most Croatian citizens, nor has it begun. There is only for the privileged layer of people, people who have high salaries, high incomes and the question of when in fact this health reform will start and when it will apply to all Croatian citizens and when all Croatian citizens will be entitled to full health care and all medicines without interference, without any interventions from either the Minister, either the Prime Minister, or the President of the Parliament, or I don't know who. And at the very end of this legal cosmetics, Europe itself has just forced us to comply with the laws, maybe put us in that second gear now, because by the fifth we're very far away. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u16024	Thank you. Correction of Mrs. Carmela Caparin's incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u16025	Vice President, there are a number of incorrect allegations. One of them is that people with low pensions have to pay for drugs. I must warn you that there is a generic list of medicines, that any patient can get this medicine and that he doesn't have to pay for it absolutely. As for the Index affair, I think the co-worker has completely missed the topic of today's debate with neighbours in Bosnia and Herzegovina. There is no talk of relations with Bosnia and Herzegovina, and apparently you have not read the laws that are on the agenda today.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u16026	And Mrs. Susana Bilic Wardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u16027	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Also... the quote that the colleague made in his debate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm correcting an incorrect assumption that hospitals and health homes are in the jurisdiction of the state. Dear colleague, you should know as mayor of Djakova that your SDP government, so at the time of the SDP government, that jurisdiction and founding rights over hospitals and health homes have been transferred to regional, regional and regional self-government units, with the Clinical Hospital in Osijek in the jurisdiction of the state. But do not switch and speak incorrect information in such a discussion, or misinformation. Health homes and your hospital are in the jurisdiction of the county. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u16028	Replica, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u16029	I'm sorry, Mr. Vice President, but this is exactly how I started. Those who didn't work in health care don't seem to understand the word "health rationalization." Namely, here is Mr. Vinkovic mentioning the birthplace in Djakov and that he regrets that Djakovci are not born in Djakov, perhaps in Slavonski Brod, Osijek, etc. Before the war, the entire Bosnian ship and Derventa were all born in Slavonski Brod, so they don't mind being born in Slavonski Brod. I have to make sure that, in Slavonia, there are almost all departments in Pakrac, Gradišca, Vinkovci, Vukovar, Slavonski Brod, Požega and Nasice all within 100 to 150 kilometers. In another country, it might be a waste of money. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u16030	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u16031	Here I will answer to Honourable representative Boris Grubisic that during this Homeland War there was also a war hospital in this Djakov, that we are in the 21st century and regardless of all possible types of rationalisation in Croatian health, I see no reason why someone from Levanjska Varosha, which is about 30 km to Djakova must still go 30 km or to Osijek or 50 km to Brod. The minimum conditions attached to the school's maternity home can be resolved with very, very little money. And I really don't know what your MPs fixed me about.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u16032	Didn't your predecessor at the mayor's post in Djakov give birth to half of Djakov and more.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u16033	And so did the money for the hospital project. The project exists.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u16034	Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u16035	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm so glad you're chairing the session now, because last Friday we split up with that fire department joke on Brač. Now, I've been to Brač this weekend and after that, and on Tuesday, I saw fireworks. But unfortunately, I still haven't seen the plate that says "Home of Health" on Brač. I didn't see that, and I'm very sorry. Because the amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act that we are discussing today in Article 68 states: “The health home must be established on the islands of Brac, Cres, Hvar, Korčula, Krka, Lošinj, Pag, Rab and Vis.” E, and Article 76 of the amendment and the addition of that law states that units are subject to a regional self-government decision, so it is not mandatory when conditions are created, if possible, to the sea, but states that “the decision to establish a health home on the islands is mandatory, in accordance with Article 25 of this Act within 6 months of the date of entry into force of the law.” The following article states that “the law is to take effect on the eighth day of its publication in the “National Journal”, and the “National Journal”... [[- The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u16036	Switch over, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u16037	So, in 2006, the amendments to the law were passed, and it said that the counties were mandatory, so the word must be mentioned twice more, but these are necessarily not yet met and it is not written when the losses are resolved, or when this or when it is written, but the health homes are not yet established. Now, on one island, and this island of Hvar, all the mayors and mayors of the municipalities, regardless of which foreigners belong, and we on the islands are a little more tolerated, so we can cooperate a lot better, they referred the request, or question to the ministry what will happen and they got the answer that approximately says you met all the conditions, there are facilities, real estate, there are all technical possibilities, but it's in your jurisdiction county. Therefore, regardless of which authority in the county is this left or right because islands have more counties, in large numbers of counties it has not been made. Therefore, this is an over-the-counter issue that would in any case affect the island's population, and last time we saw that there were more and more pensioners who probably need healthcare services more on average to solve this problem. I sincerely hope that this ping-pong transfer of balls to the county will not continue, that the ministry will make an effort in one way or another to apply the law and expect the ministry's position on what it thinks. Are you able at least by phone to call someone from the mayor and ask us if we're going to do it or not because the law has been passed and now we can talk about which government is guilty or responsible for this or what, at this point we don't have a home of health on the islands, it's a legal obligation. According to this, I've started convincing a joke, but I wouldn't want these provisions of the laws that speak of health homes on islands to tell jokes about them. We leave the jokes to comedians, and we go to law enforcement for the benefit of citizens on islands and their health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u16038	Thank you, I've heard that this fireworks in Brač was better and more luxurious than the one in Beijing. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u16039	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague incorrectly said that the abolition of the island’s health homes is a superseded issue. It's a purely party question. They were abolished by the SDP in 2002 and caused all these consequences that are now, which means that for four years we have been trying to bring home health as an institution back to the islands, but it requires a new financial division, a new calculation of material resources, equipment, debts, who paid whom, who didn't. For four years, we've been taking care of the balance sheet, financial and material homes of health. The process is now near the end, and I believe that this huge SDP error will finally be corrected soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u16040	We have a correction, Mrs. Rocksandic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u16041	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, you've asked some rhetorical questions, but everything you've asked the Ministry for is incorrect, and I'll tell you why. That's why, like my colleague Hebrang, I was then working in one... /The speech room was shut down, so I turned it back on./...we got a warrant to reorganize by March 2003, to abolish the homes of health and make one and that county home of health. So you should have referred questions earlier, not now. All this stuff you're calling the Ministry right now isn't true.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u16042	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u16043	Your Honor, Mr. President. Article 209 relating to the corrections of an incorrect quotation has been injured. I would very much like to continue to discuss with my colleagues, and I expected that they might be replicating me, so that I could get an answer. This isn't 2003, this is 2008. In 2003, number 8 and number 3 are similar, but... /The speaker went off, and then turned on./... and how much longer it will take to spend it, we will wait.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u16044	I don't know what the rules of procedure was about, but we also have a replica, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u16045	I'd like to rephrase to Honorable Representative Bauku where he said that on the islands they're a little bit more liberal, so they don't see who's left, who's right-wing. I think there's only one "left" power in the country right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u16046	Thank you. Let's move on. It's Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u16047	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, Madam Representative, gentlemen of the Parliament. When I received the materials and saw the titles of these proposals of the Law on Supplements to the Law on Supposal, then the Law on Health Care, then the Law on Medical Medicine and on dentists, then I was happy and I was in the expectations that we had finally welcomed proposals that would in some ways mean what we all expect in health, and I was a surgeon, and this is a health reform. However, I must say that we see from these materials that it is actually something that could be worn by another title, which is the law on receiving foreign healthcare professionals to work in the Republic of Croatia and another organisation of medical work and another title that goes on. In fact, it would be a rotation and could be expected in the future to rotate doctors in the Republic of Croatia so that the announced migration of our top experts according to what someone said here, Sweden, etc., and the arrival of doctors without traineeship and without a professional exam to work in the Republic of Croatia most likely from Bulgaria, Romania and some other countries. When I entered medicine in 1971 during the "Croatian Spring", there were 250 students at the admission of the country's cost, and the candidate was 1750. Every week, he'd go into medical school to say so in public, to medical school. Today look at me to say the lists of candidates who are serving I'd say reception by old or classified admission exam to medical school. How many candidates do we have? What led to that? We have 18 years of age, our country of Croatia, so we have adulthood, and health care is still as Mr Hebrang said at the state mangers. So nothing has changed compared to that socialist, health financing thing. In healthcare between doctors and others, there is mostly a 5-10% flatline. He's also a paid surgeon as a dermatologist, he's a paid physicist and a surgeon, this guy's just on duty, and then he gets something more. When I went to Zagreb, my colleagues told me to ask, fellow surgeons, when the status of judges and doctors will be evened once, if anything, by a specialist. When will the judge who completed his training and passed the judicial exam, or when will the doctor have the same salary as the judge? A traineeship and a professional exam. When it comes to nurses, they too perform a traineeship that is completely, which is not paid. At least the doctors paid for the traineeship. And on the expert exam that I am about to say, given the European Union directives, we forgive foreigners or foreigners who are going to work with us, and our children say sometimes I haven't passed a state exam because, or a professional exam, because they asked me which side of the Istrian goat on the Croatian coat of arms was turned on, and that's why I failed the expert exam for a nurse or doctor. Some say to the left, Cain says to the left, and that's true, right, but that's right. If Cain says he's on the left, then yes. But it really is, on the left hand side, isn't it? I think how important this is for the nurse's expertise, it's quite, or the doctor's, completely irrelevant. In these materials, at the end of which we find a declaration of compliance with the legal acquis of the European Union and legal acts of the Council of Europe, it is like literature which is all to say to the authorities of the state administration and all others, on which this harmonisation was created. We don't see here that, perhaps I missed the secretary of state saying whether the opinion of the Medical Chamber or the Sister's Chamber on this was obtained. In the sisterhood materials I find just someone said here, three years of schooling. Our sisters have been in school for four years, haven't they? I truly share the fear, you have driven away this fear that it is irrational or irrational, that it is brought to release our personnel, clearly middle-aged, is it? And there's something else I wanted to say. In accordance with Directive 36 of the European Community of September 2005 etc. Therefore, there is recognition of the professional training of healthcare professionals anywhere in Europe, and those who are going to enter the European Union no matter what year it was, that I would not be envied at the year of entry to someone's home, where we are fortunate to enter tomorrow, so this has been adopted, that Directive 36 was adopted in 2005. So I wonder what's ever been done to adapt, to adapt our middle and high education system, so doctors and nurses of medical and dentists so that we actually have the same conditions today and tomorrow, so if he's six years of schooling, and we see that in Europe, he's actually already involved in that, and that he's a finished doctor when he graduates from college, he doesn't need an internship or a professional exam. It will happen if we enter, as my president of the HDSSB Šišljagic here said at the pay phone, that someone will receive from Bulgaria work 1.1.2011. by entering Croatia into the European Union, and someone will take a professional exam from our people in 31.12.2010, learn for him for two or three months, work a year internship, etc. So we cannot throw out a generation of new personnel until we enter the European Union. So they're all going to have to pass a traineeship and take an expert or as I say state exam. I don't mind, one more thing. So with the construction workers in this country, another order is health care, the import of workers has affected construction. I wouldn't go into that subject, but here's health care is another area where there's actually a need to hire new fresh blood, a new workforce. And I'd like to add something else. This bill, in fact, and what it wants to produce, is more important to Croatia than to the European Union. Because he's made a good point, on many occasions it's been determined how many surgeons are missing, how many pediatricians are missing, how many people are missing. In fact, Croatia needs to adopt this. The European Union, sooner or later, should we approach that, should we adopt it and that is unfortunate. That's what actually makes us sad. Actually, there's something left, and that's bitter. Because of the underpaid work of healthcare professionals, because healthcare was always a shoulder to cry about, because it was the social exhaust valve of every government on the left or right. The doctors also did it with the nurses with enthusiasm, but apparently it's time to move on like this. That's why I plead, and actually this debate of all the participants in it is a good foundation and a good foundation. I hope to a very recent proposal for a thorough reform of our health care. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u16048	Thank you. It is Mr. Agent Ivan Bagarić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u16049	Thank you, Mr. President. This debate today has shown that there are a lot of people in this assembly who care about health and that health is a priority and that's good. However, as many times as we have so far simply, I would say, we do not know to what extent this problem deserves to talk with respect for this issue and when we even advocate it. Why do I say that? We had our Health Committee, and it's a parent body that can say a lot of things, but unfortunately there wasn't as close to how many of them there are today and what it's actually saying for the benefit of that and when we talk about the problem that we care about, which we want to improve, we say in a way and only in a way that we like it for whoever we send our messages, but not in order to change and improve the system. This set of laws that we are making today, it is actually quite familiar, the prerequisite of all that is, one of the links in the chain of all that is needed to design the system, to improve the system and to ensure as such the quality and effects that are of interest to each individual, and also to us here as a Parliament that cares about health and health as one of the priorities in this country. In front of this House, there is also a consensus on the matter of health care in front of all those who are to health, or to this quality that I am talking about. The increase in costs generated between other and changes in, we know epidemiology, disease and ageing populations and the dissatisfaction of the existing. These expensive technologies, etc. is, in fact, a challenge on which the opposition and those in power must reach consensus. So all of this that I've been talking about generates more costs, but it's asked whether this excess cost that we're making constantly in health, whether it's really focused and whether it generates more health, or whether we have to ask ourselves whether we can achieve the costs that we're investing in health effects and if we achieve them in the best possible way. We can't tell what can be heard here, how the system isn't quality, how it doesn't work. We can't always call and whenever it just answers to us, even if I respect absolutely and know what the press has done and go back to the time of Andrija Print, every time it's a time of new challenges and a time to rebuild the strategy and re-answer existing problems. All these issues, as well as the questions that are mentioned here today, are often mentioned in health care, and they concern not only the users of health services but also the donor, so first of all the doctors and medical staff in the matter of wages deserve to have an open discussion. We need to make it clear where and how we will make bigger salaries to people in the health system so that they will be satisfied, to stay and to continue to provide a very high quality service as such and to maintain the system at the level at which it is now and to improve it. Therefore, the challenge facing Croatia is to reach consensus on these very important issues, and to avoid any kind of politics if we want to change things for the better. At this consensus, he has called several times by himself a minister who has been attacked here on all sides, completely unargumented and I would say very often very incorrectly. So, Mr. Minister who is so attacked here today without any argument is just calling for a full consensus on this very important issue, and it is up to us here in the House to give him support and not to make it difficult for him, but to actually, through our committee here in the Parliament, through all possible opportunities to make it a chance to improve the health system. It makes us really achieve what we stand for here, especially in the time of television transmission. So here's the challenge. So I think on the side of the government and on the side of the minister, and on the side of the opposition is if he really wants to implement this all he's up for is to accept this challenge, sit down and talk about health issues that aren't since yesterday and it's not true that what we're talking about didn't exist five years ago and ten years ago. And one of you said when the SDP came he'd handle this, that. The SDP was four years old, and of course it didn't solve this question I'm talking about right now. It won't be resolved soon enough and it needs a consensus to be resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u16050	Thank you. And finally, Mr. Representative Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u16051	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, honorary secretary of state. In the context of these medical laws, I would particularly be apostrophe to the problem of working medicine as an extremely complex multidisciplinary area dealing with the protection of workers in the workplace, the environment and conditions and diseases of environmental factors, such as various chemicals, noise, vibrations, electromagnetic radiation, etc. I would remind you that the doctorate of Dr. Andrija Stampar's health, although it has been as many years as it has been, was one of the beginners of the establishment of the Institute of Medical Research and Working Medicine as the scientific lever of the public health doctrine. Institute of Medical Research and Labour Medicine as a scientific lever of the doctrine of public health. The Institute of Medical Research and Medicine is the second largest institute in the Republic of Croatia and, in its operation, the number of employees, including by publicist who is almost approaching or greater than the publicist of some of the entire universities. It is therefore a pity that this institution is more actively involved in this problem in some way, because some things can be controlled, studied in the Republic of Croatia and are actually managed only by scientists and experts working in that institution. Let us also mention the asbestos case which is now several times apostrophe and in this assembly, it turns out that an accredited method can only be expected from the experts of the Institute of Medical Research and Medicine. Allergological tests are also carried out there, all tests related to industrial toxicology, professional diseases related to vibrations, then the determination of some of the genotypes relevant to the fight against drugs, etc. Croatia is a small country, and it is necessary to stretch all resources to make the system go forward and it is actually a pity that the institutions dealing with the problem actually took away the possibility of dealing with secondary and tertiary health activities, because for example, this institute once had hospital wards with twenty beds which unfortunately no longer exists. In addition, only scientists can produce expertise that are such that all cover a particular problem, simply because they are dealing with a scientific apparatus, and they can also raise generations of young experts and scientists, scientific recruits in the field of medical work, as say the Department of Medicine can neither be competent nor will they ever be able to. In other words, I believe that, within the framework of these laws but also in the framework of many other laws relating to the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with European Union legislation, more attention should be paid to including science in everyday work to show that science is not barren, that it has its concrete purpose. I would also like to take this opportunity to remind myself that the magazine "Archive" for the hygiene of work and toxicology has recently been accepted into the family of scientific journals that are quoted by "Science quotation index expanded" which is an extremely large recognition, not honor, but recognition for the good and quality work of people who publish and run it in this magazine. So here we are in the Republic of Croatia richer for another journal that also deals with medical work, which is domiciled by its publisher is the institute. And I would end up with Dr. Andrija Printar's doctrine, the doctrine of public health, which is probably the most spectacular export product of the Republic of Croatia of all time, and this model has been copied by many countries, the most human states and we, with modification and with all due respect, would always have to go back to that model in the 21st century, and also into the complex of these issues of work medicine, because unfortunately our working environment, although in the 21st century, we are often more like the 19th century in some working environments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u16052	Thank you. We have one replica, one correction. Mr. Rajko Ostojic. Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u16053	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. First of all, let me congratulate you... in the situation in 2008 is a great success of the Croatian public and you and your colleagues at the Institute of Labour Medicine. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Congratulations. The paradox is bigger if we listen to your lecture that such a large capacity is more actively not used as much as it can be used. As you said yourself, Croatia is a small country and all resources should be attached, all resources should be used and I appeal to the Secretary of State to use all these professional and scientific capacities of IMIA. A lot of talk about consensus, the general consensus is as follows. To take advantage of the professional and scientific capacity in this case IMIA, to write an elaborate, to present it publicly and to get as we all learned, I, for example, at JFK school of politics in governor in Harvard make the goal optimal and botto live. Optimal and... and then on that basis you find a consensus, but the consensus is arranged, the colleague Bagaric is now talking on his cell phone, so he can't hear me, the consensus is then signed and made on the basis of profession and science, and not on the basis of two, three, four leading political men. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u16054	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u16055	As far as I heard from my colleague Franic, you said that the model of public health introduced by Mr Andrija Stampar, you said who introduced him to Andrija Hebrang, so there's only so much. If it's a lapus, it's a pure lapus. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u16056	Thank you very much. Finally, on behalf of the Proposer. Secretary of State Ante Plasimir Golem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u16057	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of today's amendment to the Legislative Committee, we would accept them on the side of the promoter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-26-0.u16058	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. 14. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act. It was an emergency procedure. P.Z.E. No. 159. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. A short time ago, the secretary of state declared that he accepted all the amendments, and therefore there was no need to vote on them. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that most of the votes are 92 votes in favour, 6 abstentions and 2 against the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act together with the amendments adopted.
