ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11920	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. And this is another one in a series of our laws that aligns national legislation with the acquis of the European Union. The current law on veterinary medicinal products and veterinary medicinal products of 1998 is an obstacle to further aligning Croatian legislation with the acquis of the European Union, in particular in the field of the production of veterinary medicinal products, testing and marketing studies, labelling, monitoring of adverse reactions, advertising, intelligence, internal and international transport, environmental protection against unused medical products, control systems and supervision of veterinary medicinal products in terms of animal health and human consumption. The legislation of the European Union is based on a different approach which is responsible for the production of these veterinary medicinal products, traffic control, monitoring of adverse reactions, clinical trials and safety and quality control determines for entities in production and business, and establishes an effective control system and surveillance measures. The legislation of the European Union is also based on ensuring the coordinated implementation of the European Union procedures for the authorisation of these products on the market and on the national procedures of the Member States, providing information on veterinary medicinal products and verifying compliance with good laboratory and clinical practice. This legislative proposal took into account the harmonisation of the laws of the Republic of Croatia with the following regulations of the European Union. And it's about the '82 Directive. the year on the harmonisation of Member States' legislation on veterinary medicinal products. Furthermore, Commission Regulation 1084 also covers the area of marketing authorisation for medicinal products for human use and veterinary medicinal products issued by the competent authority of a Member State. The provisions of this law apply to veterinary medicinal products, industrial products, premixes for the manufacture of medicinal products for use in the market, active substances used for the manufacture and certain substances which may be used as veterinary medicinal products that have anabolic, anti-infectious, anti-parasite, anti-inflammatory, hormonal or psychotropic properties and instruments, accessories, devices, devices and other veterinary products. This law lays down rules for ensuring quality and safety of veterinary medicinal products as products of particular importance for the protection of animal and human health through the consumption of food of animal origin. Animal health protection is carried out to ensure the cultivation and production of healthy animals, hygiene and health products of animal origin, the protection of people from zoonoses, and the welfare of animals and veterinary protection of the environment. The law further lays down requirements for the production of veterinary medicinal products, obtaining authorisation for placing veterinary medicinal products on the market, and the transport of large and small, clinical trials, tests and assessments of the quality of the product, advertising and notification of these products, pharmacovigilance, administrative and inspection supervision, then the information system for keeping a register on this product of the manufacturer of the marketing authorisation holder, then the information system on the wholesale, retail and quality control and test quality. This law was in the European Union's National Accession Programme for the second quarter of this year, so we propose that its adoption be followed by an urgent procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11921	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, Ms. Representative, President Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11922	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development of the Croatian Parliament discussed at its 4th session held on 16 and 17 June 2008. Proposal for a law on veterinary medicinal products, with a final proposal for a law, in the capacity of the home working body. Following the opening statement of the proposal's representative, the Committee supported the urgent discussion of the proposal. A representative of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce took part in the debate except for the members of the Committee. The debate highlights the importance of compliance of the law in question with European Union legislation. Namely, veterinary medicinal products are essential food production, but it is also important that all the prescribed veterinary procedures are carried out consistently to ensure, among other things, that there are no residuals. Respecting the possibility of flexible adaptation of domestic legal legislation, EU legislation implementing this law requires changes in the implementation of veterinary medicine on farms. After the debate, the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law on Veterinary Products.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11923	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11924	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary of State. The proposal for a law on veterinary medicinal products is one of those rules that we comply with European Union legislation and, above all, with new food safety concepts in the European Union. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports the adoption of this law. It implements Directives and regulations of the European Union, and by applying it, we become part of an integrated system which coordinates between Member States the procedures for granting authorisations for placing veterinary medicinal products on the market and national procedures of Member States, providing information on medical products and verifying compliance with good laboratory, clinical and manufacturing practices. Namely, what's this about? Human and animal health can no longer be a single country's problem in isolation. Zoonosis epidemics and infectious diseases from cow madness, bird flu, swine fever, foot and foot are not the problem of one state. These diseases do not know the borders, they spread regardless of whether a Member State or not is a member of the European Union, and it is clear that these are problems that exceed the administrative borders and which countries in the environment must address coordinated and that is their common interest. It is therefore important for this law to be compatible and to allow for the exchange of information and the establishment of standards. One Germany or Austria may have perfect legislation, a supervisory inspection system but if countries in the environment do not have those standards, what I said disease epidemics do not respect their borders, do not respect administrative boundaries. We also had a case for swine fever, so after we abolished vaccination mandatory, monitors were established, but all this is not enough if countries in the environment, such as Serbia, such as Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc. They don't have the same standards, then it's always possible and a potential fur hotspot. Therefore, Croatia also has such an interest in passing laws and is likely to have an area of food safety in which there should be no calculations and delays in relation to the European Union standard, because we ultimately protect the health of our people, our citizens, our consumers. The adoption of this law is also necessary in order to remove and measure the negotiating chapter 12. – Food safety, veterinary and fitness sanitary supervision, but above all this law is important and the Croatian Democratic Community club supports its adoption, because it regulates the area of quality and safety of veterinary medicinal products, that is, animal health protection, and thus our consumers who consume food of animal origin. In 2000, the European Union made a turn in food safety and quality policies. This has resulted in numerous crises in the 1990s due to the occurrence of disease due to the outbreaks of zoonoses caused by food or food for animals, from dioxins found in feed for animals, pastures of olive oil, cow's madness, etc. These epidemics and events have affected the health and well-being of people with significant economic consequences for individuals, for families, for entire communities, for food and food business operators and for the whole country. This shift resulted in the White Paper on Food Safety, the Strategy for Food Safety from Field to Table, and Regulation 178/2002. and so-called A hygienic package. What is crucial in these concepts of food safety, and it is directly related to this law? It focuses on prevention, i.e. the Food Safety Strategy introduces the principle from field to table. The responsibility of all those in the food chain is clearly prescribed, so from livestock producers, from those carrying out livestock, processing, meat industry, transport, to final consumption and consumers. Therefore, these concepts of food safety cover the entire chain. Therefore, it is not to be assumed if contamination occurred at the stage of production or if treatment was incorrect, therefore veterinary medicinal products, if certain residuals remained, certain contaminants were then not expected and in the final product. Therefore, each segment of production and each stage is equally important and has an impact on the health regularity of the final product. Therefore, as a necessary assumption of healthy food, animal health and animal protection, but also the prescribed and controlled use of veterinary medicinal products which, in addition to their medical activity, may, if not carried out in accordance with the regulations, lead to contamination, i.e. toxic constituents of residuals may be lagging behind in muscle tissue and thus endanger the final product, i.e. be dangerous to the health of the consumer, i.e. consumables. Another important area covered by this law is animal welfare and environmental protection. It should be made clear that production support in the European Union is no longer given simply as they are multiple conditions, so they must meet product quality standards, environmental standards and animal welfare standards. Therefore, unless these requirements and standards are met, there is no payment of incentives, so that the application of this law through the protection and welfare of animals is in direct connection with the production of milk and meat, i.e. with state aid intended for this production of producers as one of the important principles contained in this law is the traceability and establishment of an information system. Therefore, all veterinary medicinal products manufactured and placed on the market have been recorded, clinically tested, their quality has been assessed, and they have also been granted marketing authorisation. Also, administrative inspection controls have been established. Because of this, these facts of the Veterinary and Medical Products Act are part of the European Union legislation that we need to comply with during the negotiations, but it is also a direct impact on food safety and consumer protection. And that is why the Croatian Democratic Community club supports its adoption and implementation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11925	Thank you. There's a SDP club, Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11926	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs. The proposal of the Law on Veterinary Products, with the final proposal of the Law, is certainly a major step forward in relation to the Law on Veterinary Medicinal Products and Veterinary Medicinal Products since 1998, which has been expected by manufacturers of veterinary medicinal products for a long time. In conversation with the people of the veterinary profession, expectations of the law are high. Changes are expected by manufacturers, we have very significant manufacturers in Croatian veterinary medicinal products, as well as large drugstores, but also a small sale in veterinary medicinal products. However, I believe that the users themselves are particularly interested, so cattle growers who want the item to be as small as possible. However, it may also be a two - edged sword. Examples of unprofessional use of veterinary medicinal products in livestock production may also have major consequences. For example, an uncontrolled application or insufficient use in one or the other situation damages that production. It is particularly dangerous to use medicines without the supervision of veterinarians of veterinary medicine. Examples are that the cattle grower illegally obtains medicines and applies them without the knowledge of the veterinarian, and the end of the animal on... The slaughter and placement of this meat causes people to often receive antibiotics, people to receive at therapeutic doses do not have the effect they should have. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because over time we have become resistant to some of the antibiotics by taking certain animal products less doses of these antibiotics because they are uncontrollably treated. I think this is the goal of preventing such an uncontrollable use of these antibiotics. However, the other thing is why this law is expected and why it is interesting, so in Croatia it is trafficling from 12m to 13m euros in veterinary medicines. I think it's one thing that's visible and one thing that's interesting for people who do business, these veterinary medicinal products. Here's an example, recently in a daily press release, I read that a former Prime Minister, one of the former Deputy Prime Ministers and one of the former Ministers of Government, joined one of our prominent producers of veterinary medicines. If they have entered into the supervision of such a company on the supervisory board, they probably also believe that this production is good and that it can probably be well earned. Thus, in addition to this confirmation of the new law, the veterinary profession also considers that the law is in many things and unspeakable. I think we should say that, too, because whatever the law has its meaning and it is important to us in these negotiations that we have with the European Union. However, we should also say that he also has a lot of indiscretions that need to be resolved normally. In the first place, I believe that two things need to be resolved means that we would meet our needs to continue negotiations with the European Union, which means that we should bring it in. And secondly, to satisfy the application of the law in our Croatian reality, to pass such a law and implementing acts that will be implemented with us in the context of our production. This means that according to the current state of play and the bill proposed before us, we need to adopt the law, but secondly, that we should take it under the implementing rules, and in particular you saw there a rule on veterinary medicinal products planned to be passed by 31. 12. In 2008, we fully comply with the provisions of the European Union and make it acceptable and enforceable with our opportunities. If you have looked at that contribution, you have already seen one annual view in a parallel display of the compliance of the provisions of the European Union with the draft draft law, it indicates about 40 non-compliant and 20 partially harmonised articles that need to be aligned with other sublaws and which the ministry must comply with through this Regulation on veterinary medicinal products by the end of the year. So there's work to do about it, not to accept it now, and after that, not to do what we need to do because only accepting without these accompanying acts won't give us what quality we expect and who should be. Since the law will enter into force on 1 February 2009, the Law will cease to apply since 1998, but will be followed by existing rules until the minister adopts new implementing rules within the next two years. So, the work cycle is very large, and we need to be in the Ministry all the time, especially in the Veterinary Administration, present to resolve these things the way we need to. Special meaning is the production of veterinary medicinal products in both our production and those we import. Therefore, this law established the procedure for testing and placing on the market these products and in order to confirm their quality of safety and efficacy, as a product for the protection of animal health, and thereby to protect human health from... Veterinary medicinal products are important newspapers that allow us to produce in livestock that meets the criteria set by Europe. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In order to achieve this fully, I was at a meeting with people working in that branch of pharmaceuticals, and they believe that especially in Article 1 of the Purpose and scope of the application, producers often do not see some part of their palette. For example, cosmetics with a special minor and the like. It should therefore be clarified in that Article 1 which, in particular in these accompanying documents, clarify all that is not good enough in that law and can be dealt with by the implementing regulation and resolve that there would be no subsequent misunderstandings or here, specifically, that a product cannot be classified, or placed in the place where it belongs. The profession also positively highlighted the issue of the registration of new medicinal products because it is prescribed that authorisation to conduct a clinical trial of veterinary medicinal products should be initiated within 60 days at the request of the applicant. Now we've had a lot of bigger and longer problems registering a particular drug. So from applying for 60 days, which is a very positive greeting. This allows for registration of a new medicinal product to occur within 210 days at the latest. To this day and day it takes much longer, some medicines take two and more years to register as such, while at the same time they are quality and necessary for our production in livestock. Since there are currently many new preparations in the registration programme, the question is whether a repeat procedure under the new law will be needed. I think that's a question that should also be addressed by implementing acts. Now I come up with a very important issue in the transport of veterinary medicinal products. Why is that a significant question? So there's just a few reasons? One of the first is certainly an illegal market, medicines purchased outside the country then application of non-professional people and issue of doses, slaughtering animals that have not expired, a medicine that has been applied to them. In that part, this particular prevention of disease, and in particular zoonoses, has a great meaning for human health and for human health and for animal health as well as for human health. That's why it's important that an expert is the only one who can treat it, the cure. The issue of application itself can also be taught by man, but the issue of treatment and control and therapy must therefore be the expert in charge, a doctor of veterinary medicine who will also be responsible after writing that health certificate. Another issue is important in this part of traffic, the use of human medicines that are not registered for animals. Article 9 refers to the need to determine, together with the Ministry of Health, which medicines can be used? Why is that significant? Well, let's just say there are about 30 veterinary clinics and veterinary colleges in Zagreb that treat pets. People are in touch today, humans and animals are getting more and more intimate, especially in the environments, where people may be a little bit more alienated and that is why it is very important that these medicines that we do not have in the veterinary medicinal products and are used in human beings, and can be used in animal treatment to make a list of these medicines that can be used. Today we have in, only in Zagreb over 25 thousand dogs. How many cats and other pets there are even more. I think it can be solved without a problem, too, because Europe has already solved it. There are about 800 human preparations on the list in England. We have about 300 preparations today. Therefore, implementing acts should bring that list to that list, the standard that will be useful for these animals to be treated with these medicinal products. However, the most important issue in this transport is to resolve the relations of manufacturers, wholesalers, retailes or wholesalers, veterinary medicinal products and users. According to European regulations, each quantity of drugs found in meat leads to penalties that have undetectable consequences for production and manufacturers. Therefore, the third chapter of the marketing of veterinary medicinal products should be well clarified by implementing acts. And finally here's a technical question that's easily correct, and I've given the amendment. In Article 2 of the terms, the attitude of the 53rd word "vetary" should replace the words "medicine doctor" because it is an academic term that receives a graduate student of the Veterinary Faculty and allows it to also expose a valid veterinary prescription that can raise the medicine in a pharmacy. Finally, the SDP Club supports the adoption of this law, with the correction of indetermination through the Regulation on veterinary medicinal products but with the maximum participation of the profession. What does that mean? That means more than ever. This means that people in the Veterinary Faculty, institutes, veterinary chambers, manufacturers, wholesale drugs can't be asked with a few hours to one day. It cannot then have a quality opinion of those experts who are valued not only by us but also at the level of European veterinary institutions and pharmacological associations. Let us not allow ourselves to pass the law for the sake of negotiations but a law that will be appropriate, applicable in Croatia and allow quality transport and use of veterinary medicinal products. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11927	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11928	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. As we have already heard, we at the HNS Club fully agree with that finding that the veterinary profession of this law really expects very much. We are pleased that our parent committee unanimously supported its adoption, but I agree with the predecessors who said that the law in some segments is truly inconclusive and I will be very specific in front of the HNS Club to present some of the questions that we have encountered and ask the promoters to answer these questions here for reasons why this law goes according to an urgent procedure. So we don't have any other options for corrections except today. Here we go in a row. I'll skip those questions that were already asked to keep me as short as possible. The new law provides for the making of gallenical and masterly medicines but does not define who can make them and who can issue them. A veterinarian and a doctor of veterinary medicine who are legally employed in a veterinary medicinal product are not trained in the preparation of such medicinal products, nor are veterinary pharmacies equipped in such a way that such medicinal products can be made in them. Whether the proposer intends to regulate the way the Master's and Galenian preparations are produced and issued by means of a sublegal act, because I would like to remind you that the current rule has basically made it possible only for pharmacists, therefore, to pharmacists. No one else should have given those drugs. We're going to article 9 of this bill. He predicts that a doctor of veterinary medicine can prescribe a human medicine, and a list of human medicines is brought in accordance with the Ministry of Health. Article 72 of this proposal provides for supervision of veterinary medicinal products only by the Ministry of Agriculture. If the veterinary medicinal product company had human medicines, wouldn't it be logical to provide supervision by the Ministry of Health? Furthermore, as long as veterinary medicinal products can only be issued in veterinary medicinal products, the new law allows for the issue of human medicinal products outside human beings, under quotes medicinal products. What does the pharmaceutical profession say about this? Have you, as proposings, consulted and how you'll handle it? Because it's essentially a kind of discrimination. Finally, given the relatively large number of new employees who will need to be employed on particularly imported with the implementation of this law, and in the bill we did not get absolute value, so the real costs with which we will clearly burden the budget for the coming years. I'd like you to tell us what really real costs are and whether or not the ministry might be thinking about doing a certain redistribution of jobs. Because European legislation brings us new obligations, but that's how other obligations are put out. We keep getting on our bench proposals about opening new jobs, and we don't see what's going to happen to employees who do jobs that won't have to do them anymore. Here, we'd like you to give us an answer to those questions, because I think it's important that we get rid of them before we go to the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11929	Thank you. An individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative Branko Box. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11930	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The basic purpose of this proposal as a regulation governing the production and distribution of veterinary medicinal products must be to protect public health. However, this objective must be achieved in a way that does not prevent the development of the economy and taking into account the commitments made by the Republic of Croatia through the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. The proposal for a law is the basis for the adoption of all implementing rules in order to comply with the legal acquis of the European Union in the field of veterinary medicinal products that are constantly developing, respecting the contributions made by the European Medicines Agency, which, through a number of expert working teams, experts seek to monitor the scientific and technological progress of the drug industry. Scientists of the European Medicines Agency are developing new safety standards on a daily basis, thus improving the European acquis that binds all Member States, as well as the Republic of Croatia as a candidate country. This law guarantees that all veterinary medicinal products which are placed on the market on the basis of approval have been tested using uniform criteria to determine their quality, safety and efficacy, all for the protection of animal health and in particular the protection of human health through the consumption of food of animal origin. In order to protect public health, appropriate data should be collected and evaluated on the side effects of veterinary medicinal products as products of particular importance. This law allows the accession of the Republic of Croatia to a single system of reporting of vegerina-medical products involving all European Union Member States. Therefore, we will be included in the system of collecting and assessing relevant side effects, lack of efficacy and unauthorized indications of veterinary medicinal products to ensure continued safety of veterinary medicinal products. This proposal also applies the European Union principle of freedom of movement of goods, in this case veterinary medicinal products. From a public health perspective and free movement of veterinary medicinal products, a new law paves the way for the establishment of a database with the competent authority containing all the necessary data in order to allow for the best treatment in emergency situations in relation to veterinary medicinal products. In order to ensure the quality of the veterinary medicinal products, this bill achieves that all veterinary medicinal products arriving in the areas of the Republic of Croatia are manufactured in accordance with the principles of good manufacturing practice, and all operators in the transport of veterinary medicinal products are obliged to keep the prescribed records. In addition, specific controls guaranteeing the quality of veterinary medicinal products are also prescribed. Finally, taking into account the obligations of the Republic of Croatia to comply with the acquis of the European Union, the Proposal for a Law on Veterinary Medicinal Products shall ensure full compliance with the acquis of the European Union in the area concerned. I support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11931	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragan Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11932	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. On the benches, we have a proposal for a law on veterinary medicinal products, with a final proposal for a law. In 1998, the Croatian Parliament passed the Law on Veterinary Medicinal Products and Veterinary Products. This '98 law. A method of testing of authorisation for the placing on the market, manufacture and manufacture, transport, and surveillance, advertising and registration of veterinary medicinal products and medicinal products for animal health, in particular with regard to their quality, efficacy and safety, and thus to the protection of human health from the rest of the medicinal product in animal products of animal origin, veterinary-medical homeopathic products, and animal health control. This '98 law. It is an obstacle to bringing Croatia's legislation into line with European legislation, and therefore today we are discussing a new bill. This new draft law is in line with the European Parliament and Council Directive of 6 November 2001 as well as the European Commission Regulation of 3 June 2003. This law lays down the procedure for testing and placing on the market, production, labelling, transport, quality control, advertising and surveillance of veterinary medicinal products in order to ensure their quality, safety and efficacy as animal health products, and thereby protect human health from the residences of veterinary medicinal products in food of animal origin and animal feed. It should be pointed out that it is a clear and detailed legislative proposal which clearly indicates the rights and responsibilities of certain entities concerned. A very large authority in the implementation of this law has itself a resolute minister, and again requires him to adopt a number of regulations for the implementation of this law as well as a number of commissions to implement it. This law regulates rules for ensuring quality and safety of veterinary medicinal products as products of particular importance for animal health, hygiene health products of animal origin, protection of humans from zoonoses and animal welfare and veterinary protection of the environment. The law is divided into several chapters, and each chapter deals with a specific area allowing easier application of the proposed solutions. Chapter – The examination process shall be subject to the quality control of the veterinary medicinal product with basic requirements. The clinical trial shall cover questions relating to studies to determine whether the veterinary medicinal product meets the basic requirements of safety, efficacy and safety in order to protect animal health. Chapter — The placing on the market of veterinary medicinal products in accordance with that Directive and Regulation shall be regulated that veterinary medicinal products may only be placed on the market if they do not endanger the health and safety of target animals. Chapter — The production authorisation shall contain provisions relating to the conditions for the production of veterinary medicinal products and the manufacturer’s entry in the relevant register of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. Chapter – Labelling and package leaflet for veterinary medicinal products shall be covered by the labelling of the package of the veterinary medicinal product and the approved content of the package leaflet which has been approved for placing on the market. Chapter - Transport of veterinary medicinal products contains provisions which are more precise on issues relating to entities that can carry out traffic on large and small veterinary medicinal products, imports and exports. This Act provides for an obligation to unite existing information systems and databases for veterinary medicinal products, creating assumptions for the more efficient operation of the entire system. The proposed law respects the specificity of the process of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union and allows for flexible adaptation of domestic and legal legislation to the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11933	Thank you. In conclusion, on behalf of the promoter, Mr. Stjepan Mikolčić, State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11934	... control of a higher use of medicinal products in human medicine, they will not be sold in veterinary medicinal products, but exclusively on prescription in human medicinal products, therefore they will be under direct supervision by the Ministry of Health and those who control and monitor the marketing of such medicinal products. [[The speaker was subsequently turned on.]] For the implementation of this law, it will take a certain but not significant financial means, if you have read the law more carefully and that part of the reasoning, there we have stated that 8 new people will need to be hired to implement this law. We will do so in 2008 and 2009, although in the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture these funds are secured in part for this year and foreseen by the plan for the next period. But let me get involved in some way in that part of your debate higher than a higher, so to speak, the activities on food safety and the implementation of the veterinary phytosanitary policy must be said in Chapter 12, which sort of regulates this area we have had four criteria and we have received a positive opinion that we have removed them all, since this part of our legislative adjustment goes in accordance with those programmes and deadlines that we have provided for, and you will soon have in some way and the starting points for chapter 12 that regulates this area from all aspects in terms of transposition of legal gain in our legislation. Once again, I thank you for your discussions, suggestions and suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11935	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. The final proposal of the Law on Veterinary Products is an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. The 100th debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee, representative Dragutin Bodakoš. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to show up on the amendments. State Secretary Kuterovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11937	Thank you, Mr. President. Appreciation ladies and gentlemen of the MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11938	On Article 2 of Mr Dragutin Bodakoš's representative. Let's go, then let's go in order when it's written like that for you. Here, amendment to Article 2. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11939	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11940	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11941	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11942	Thank you. It's becoming an integral part. Article 6
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11943	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11944	Sustained. Thank you. It's becoming an integral part of... This Regulation shall [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11945	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11946	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Thank you. For the purposes of Article 16 and Article 23, the
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11947	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11948	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. In accordance with Article 42 of the
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11949	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11950	Thank you. It's becoming an integral part. 6th, Article 57.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11951	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11952	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 7th, Article 70.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11953	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11954	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Article 79 is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11955	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11956	It's becoming an integral part. Thank you. Ninth, Article 80.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11957	That one we can't accept. Because it seems not clear, and it is about Croatian laws, and so is this law, and it needs to be evened in the whole text of the law. And it is not acceptable for us to use the indent in one paragraph 7 only in Article 80, and in another, to use the word under paragraph 4, and therefore we cannot accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11958	The President of the Committee on
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11959	We're pulling... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11960	First, this amendment shall be withdrawn to Article 9. Article 10
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11961	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11962	On the tenth, Article 87.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11963	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11964	The 11th, Article 88.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11965	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11966	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 12th, Article 90.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11967	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11968	It's becoming an integral part. Article 13 is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11969	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11970	Sustained. Article 14(1), second subparagraph, point (a) and
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11971	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11972	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. And we have on Article 2 of Mr Dragutin Bodakosh's amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11973	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11974	This amendment shall also be accepted. Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, thank you. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Veterinary Medicinal Products. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This law was adopted by the majority of votes, 98 votes for and 3 abstentions along with the amendments adopted. We move on to - Final draft law in amendments to the Law on Audit, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 99 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. You received the proposal by mail pursuant to Article 159. Rules of Procedure. The emergency procedure combines the first and second readings of the Law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Does the Proposer's representative want to take a word for it? Yeah. Mr. Zdravko Maric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11976	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. There is a draft bill on amendments and additions to the Audit Act. The audit law, otherwise passed at the end of 2005, was published in the "National Journal" No. 146 and entered into force on 20 December 2005. At the time of his adoption, he was in line with the so-called The 8th Directive of the European Union, which has been amended in the meantime, amended in mid-2006 by the adoption of a new Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe which, in fact, provides for a slightly different way to revise annual financial reports and consolidated financial reports by companies or companies. Also in the context of negotiations with the European Union, Chapter 6 – The law of trade societies, one part relates to the area of audit, in particular the legislative audit in which part should actually be brought into line with the acquis of the European Union. Accordingly, this proposal for a law that will fully comply with the acquis of the European Union has been drawn up. I would like here, ladies and gentlemen, only to say briefly, about the most important changes and changes in this law. The proposed amendments and additions to the Audit Act therefore provide for the possibility of carrying out audits and of foreign auditors in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, therefore with domestic and party matters, provided that, in any event, a foreign citizen must first of all nostrate a party to a document proving the appointment of an authorised auditor, and also to pass certain tests, that is to say, his knowledge of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia. The law also amends the provisions relating to public oversight. Thus far, public oversight of the audit profession and the Croatian Audit Chamber have been in power at the Ministry of Finance. According to the directive, under the eighth Directive, public supervision of the audit profession and so on the chamber is required to be in the jurisdiction of an independent, completely independent body. It is therefore proposed that such supervision be carried out by the Committee on Public Control whose members are appointed and resolved by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Minister of Finance. The proposed law also amended the conditions to be met by authorised auditors carrying out quality checks on the work of audit firms, independent auditors and authorised auditors. Instead of the ten years so far, authorised auditors must have five years of experience in the audit operations and appoint them the Administrative Council of the Chamber with the previous consent of the Committee on Public Control. The new provisions of the law also apply to the so-called so-called a report on transparency which audit firms and independent auditors draw up when carrying out a public-interest audit such as companies whose securities are listed on the stock market, banks and other financial institutions and companies of particular State interest whose underlying capital exceeds 300 million kuna. The transparency report shall be drawn up for the purpose of obtaining a general picture and an insight into the audit companies carrying out those audits. The proposed amendments and additions to the laws are also prescribed to replace the so-called the rotation of authorised auditors in carrying out audits of financial reports, public-interest entities, so that the authorised auditor may again participate in the audit of the same entity after a period of at least two years. It should be noted in fact that it is in this way intended to achieve the independence of authorised auditors from the audited entity, which does not necessarily mean changing the audit company but only the authorised auditor who is the signator of the audit report. Moreover, a significant change in the proposed amendments and additions to the Revision Act concerns the suspension of the tariff of audit services primarily in order to comply with the acquis of the European Union, but in any event also respecting the principle of free competition. It should also be said that the fees agreed on on on the basis of the tariff of audit services until the entry into force of this law also remain in force until the contractual obligations for which they are contracted are met. Finally, I would only say that the provisions on the publication of the report on transparency and rotation, i.e. the replacement of the auditor, enter into force on the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11977	Thank you. Do the work bodies want reporters? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the chairman of the Committee, Mr Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11978	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honored government representatives, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. At the 10th session held on 12 June 2008, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Audit, with the final proposal for a law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Act of 5 June 2008. The Finance Committee and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed the law in question under Article 65. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament unanimously supported the proposal by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to comply with Article 161 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, this law shall be adopted by an urgent procedure, given that it is a matter of harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union. In particular, the discussion on the Committee is supported by the suspension of the tariff on audit services which will enable the determination of the fee for the audit service to be determined by the contract, i.e. in the market environment. However, it was also warned that the need for greater responsibilities of tax advisers and authorised auditors, which have a significant impact on the decision-making of responsible persons in companies, is also needed. After the debate was held, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament decided to unanimously propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Audit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11979	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Mrs. Representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11980	Thank you, Mr. President. Representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. The importance of the audit stems from its purpose to increase their credibility with stockholders, business partners and other users. The audit opinion creates trust between the management and ownership structure of the company and is therefore important. Corporate scandals that were happening, and it's not excluded that it's not going to happen like that. The world's most famous was Enron, but it did not escape in Croatia either, so we had such a case with the Rijeka Bank, strengthened the need for more sophisticated regulations and better supervision and require effective action to boost confidence in the market and its mechanisms. The audit of financial reports is necessary under market economy conditions, as capital owners are interested in assessing the reality and objectivity of business reports by independent experts. The risk of audit stems from the possibility of an inappropriate audit opinion on financial reports and is therefore an important provision on the independence of auditors. These risks are higher if there is no internal control and internal surveillance or they are inadequate. Amendments and additions to the Revision Act that we are discussing today are subject to compliance with European legislation, i.e. negotiations with the European Union on Chapter VI. the right of companies in the section relating to international accounting standards and audit. At European Union level, a financial reporting system covering the rules on annual reports, international reporting accounting standards and statutory audit rules has been adopted. In particular, it is required that there is no discrimination against citizens of the European Union countries in relation to the citizens of their own country, so this also applies to auditors and we see adequate change in this law. In the field of financial reporting, the acquis lays down rules for the presentation of annual and consolidated accounts, including simplified rules for small and medium-sized enterprises. The application of international accounting standards is mandatory for some entities of public interest, it is about banks, financial institutions, companies whose securities are listed on the stock exchange, companies that the state considers to be of particular interest to it. Legal property prescribes rules for the approval of professional integrity and independence of statutory auditors. The institutional framework should specifically regulate the licensing of the powers of professional organisations and quality control of audits and quality security checks to be justified and implemented by the relevant authorities of the State. In particular, internal audit and supervision, etc., should be strengthened. The supervisory supervision of audit firms. The World Bank has particularly highlighted the rule of law's application, and its recommendations need to be implemented. And in the follow-up to this, I would like to refer to some of the articles that are being amended in this law, which we have certain observations or questions about. This relates to Article 3 which is related to the existing Article 7. Article 3 amends the meaning of the Directive to allow foreign auditors to carry out audits in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. In the current article 7 for obtaining certificates, the candidate had to satisfy the following two conditions, which is that he is a Croatian citizen and that he knows Croatian language. The new amendment to this article left out these two conditions for obtaining a certificate, but at the same time in point 4 of the amended Article 7 of the amendment said that a foreign document will be nostrated after verifying the applicant's knowledge of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia necessary to carry out the audit work and the verification will take place in the Croatian language. The question arises, if it is not a condition for Croatian language to know how such evidence will be performed by the candidate in Croatian, so we ask if it is really more consistent, or is it actually one of the conditions that should not be on the small door? Article 7 is complemented by the new Article 17a and refers to the transparency report drawn up by auditors carrying out an audit of companies of public interest. The transparency report should give an insight into the audit companies carrying out such audits. The report should include the essential qualities of an auditor or an audit company which also plays a significant role in the audit opinion it gives to entities of particular interest. And we appreciate that this is important today, so we ask why is the application of this provision delayed until the entry of the Republic of Croatia into full membership of the European Union? The same applies to Article 10, which introduces a new Article 26a and provides for the maximum period within which an auditor may perform entities of particular interest, so for seven years and then proposes or defines a replacement for a period of two years, also with application when Croatia becomes a full member of the European Union. We don't think these are the kind of conditions that could be met in a short time. The paper is an amendment to Article 20, which leaves out audit tariffs and our domestic auditors have more significant objections. We estimate that this part should also be harmonised immediately because the minimum tariffs or fees established by the Audit Chamber are now in force. It should be said that at this point, such a point is in place that the total income, the value of the asset and the number of employees is taken into account, for example. The minimum tariff is 15 points, the point is a thousand kuna, so the minimum fee for the audit report in small enterprises is at least 15 thousand kuna. It is necessary to support the legal arrangement of the prevention of conflicts of interest prescribed by the new Article 26b, which limits the possibility of hiring an auditor in the management structure of the company that audited it to two years. The obligation to move the supervision of the Ministry of Finance was arranged in a way to establish a Committee on Public Control that replaces therefore this control that has so far been within the Ministry of Finance. And finally, let me say that at the SDP club, we will vote to accept amendments and additions to the Audit Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11981	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Vladimir Ivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11982	Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. This issue is one of the fundamental issues of economic business especially from the owner's position, but it is also not uninteresting to trade unions or employees, and it is particularly interesting if two or more owners are trying to determine whether the administration is doing well, whether it is not working well. These reports depend on the fate of some companies, as well as problems that may arise as a result of these ambiguities. The HDZ Club will support this law because it contains important provisions which, in that legal uncertainty or rather, would say to the fact that it significantly improves the way and quality of how an adequate report will take place to show the right state of things in commercial societies. This will be achieved through the introduction of public oversight of the audit profession, but also through the quality of the work of the auditors themselves. The Audit Act shall, in general, regulate the conduct of audits of financial reports and consolidated financial reports of the audit officer, determine the persons authorised to provide audit services, the conditions for the provision of audit services, the audit committee, the establishment and operation of the Croatian Audit Chamber and the supervision of its operations, the supervision and verification of the quality of the work of the audit company, the independent auditors and the authorised auditors, the issuing and withdrawal of audit service authorisations and other audit issues. At the time of the adoption, the law was in line with 8. The Directive of the European Union, which was amended on 17 May and, accordingly, under the new Directive, it is necessary to harmonise the provisions of the Revision Act into the areas already mentioned, in the part of the possibility of carrying out an audit of foreign auditors in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, in the conduct of public oversight of the audit profession in the quality of the work of audit firms, independent auditors and authorised auditors. The proposed amendments may also include a foreign legal person who will be entrusted with the work of the auditor himself, then the public oversight of the audit profession and the chamber was in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance. Once again, I would like to highlight the meaning of this issue, given the data and audit reports that can from the already mentioned "Enron" case, in which practically false or hidden audit report has led to the fact that all employees remain without pension rights, or pension funds, or, of course, without jobs, and owners without their assets, but also in our nearby environment, often the question is raised, where in my local area of the textile company, one owner, another owner, is outwitted in whether the audit board is an adequate reflection of the real situation. One is not, because the state of supply is shown, and of course, when these extremes are to be decided, this improvement in the quality of the audit reports themselves and the supervision of them is essential for the future work of these companies. Public supervision shall also be subject to the procedures on the basis of which licences for the work of audit firms and certificates have been granted to auditors, and the verification of standards relating to professional ethics, internal control, quality of audit companies, quality of work, etc. Oversight will be carried out by the Committee on Public Control, whose members are appointed and resolved by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Minister of Finance. The members of the Board must be professional persons, known to the area of audit, and who have not been active audited for the last three years, must be represented from different fields and meet certain, of course and professional conditions, such as the study of the second level of studies under the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education in the area of law and economy. The Committee shall report on its work to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the work programme of the Committee and the work report must be published on both websites and thus become transparently available to all. The members of the Board shall be elected for a period of 4 years and their activities shall be financed from the state budget for the reasons of their financial and full independence. The second area, the area of quality checks for audit companies, is an area that even other countries have not yet fully introduced in the European Union, but is slowly introduced and has in some way guaranteed that the same reports, or at least roughly, will contain the same indicators and in the same way present the same data and the same indicators. The quality of work verification will continue once every 6 years, and at least once every 3 years with audit firms or independent auditors performing audits of public-interest entities. However, for authorised auditors carrying out quality checks, certain conditions that must be met are essential, which is a five-year experience in audit operations, and that they are appointed by the administrative board of chambers with the previous consent of the Committee on Public Control, so double supervision. The quality of work check must be organised in a way that is independent of auditors and companies subject to review. Therefore, the authorised auditors carrying out the quality of the work will be financed from the funds of the chamber to be allocated for that purpose and thus again guaranteeing the independence and objectivity of the quality check. The new regulations also refer to the transparency report which audit firms and independent audits place in the course of the company’s review of public interest, such as companies whose securities are listed on the bank’s stock exchange, etc., i.e. trading companies whose share capital exceeds 300 million kuna. In addition to the transparency report, the law also prescribed replacements or rotations, after 7 years from the start of the audit, must be changed by the person performing the audit and thus prevents the agreement between the auditor and the one ordered from constantly repeating the same approaches in the audit and in the content of the report. They shall be authorised to carry out a review of the public interest, so that the authorised auditor may take part again in the audit of the same entity after the expiry of a period of at least 2 years. So, a necessary break in which someone else will be able to point out the irregularities of the previous auditor. At the same time, the auditor must not become a member of the company’s administration for 2 years, whose audit has been signed and thus prevents possible criminal modes of work in terms of the setting up of results and subsequent awards for such an audit report. Finally, the issue of audit tariffs is left to the market. This has so far been one of the issues that have been difficult to compare the scope of an audit report, especially in companies where public procurement was mandatory under the law. So the question was, what is the subject of competition in the first place, and what is the subject of a company assembly when it is decided to entrust the audit? Is it merely the desire of the owner to do so or must respect the basic commercial principle, i.e. the Public Procurement Act, in terms of the most favourable offer and price. So these are the basic elements that make three, four elements that make this law and this area a more significant improvement in the quality of regulation. And in that sense, I repeat again, HDZ will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11983	Thank you. On behalf of the HSLS Club, HSU, Mr. Representative Antun Korushec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11984	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. This law is really very important, because truthfulness and objectivity in the domain of revision is actually one of the most important preconditions of financial discipline. So let me remind you that the Revision Act, which was adopted at the end of 2005 to date, has shown some shortcomings and has indeed shown objectively the need during its application to comply with certain legal provisions, including for certain significant legislative steps, or amendments. Of course, the need for the adoption of a new Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Audit also requires compliance with the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Community. For objectivity, I think it is necessary to say that so far the audit reports in this House have been praised for their objectivity, for their comprehensiveness and for their expertise. Especially important issues to be addressed by the new Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Revision Act are the following. The ability to carry out audits of foreign auditors in the field of Croatia, to conduct public oversight of the audit profession, to verify the quality of the work of audit firms, independent auditors and authorised auditors, and to obtain certifications for the calling of an authorised auditor. Therefore, respecting European experience, the certificate must also be issued to auditors from other countries, so that audits under the prescribed conditions can also be carried out by foreign citizens. As regards public oversight of the audit profession and chamber, public oversight must be carried out independently of profession and public oversight, and can only be carried out by persons who are not professionally engaged in the conduct of audits. It is certainly understood and expected that such persons must be professional and must be moral, while the prerequisite is that they are good auditors. It also provides for the establishment of a Committee on Public Control, which, on a proposal from the Minister of Finance, appoints and resolves the Government. This is a proposed solution or solution we consider very good. As we consider a very good rotation of authorised auditors in carrying out audits of financial reports, subjects of public interest. The provision that an authorised auditor may take part again in the audit of the same entity, after a period of at least two years, goes significantly in favour of achieving and strengthening the independence of authorised auditors and strengthening the integrity of the audit profession, which I believe we all advocate. The role of the chamber is very important here, as it must verify the independence and objectivity of the audit, the methodology and rules of the audit profession, and the application of laws and international audit standards. I believe that it is particularly important in the club that we consider it to be the financing of authorised auditors to carry out a quality assessment of the work and resources of the chamber leading to the financial independence of auditors who carry out quality checks of work with audit companies and independent auditors and thus to good and valid public perceptions of the audit profession which has also often been attacked. The new provisions of the laws relating to the drawing up of the transparency report drawn up in the conduct of a public-interest review also merit praise from our assessment. Here, in considering this overall problem, we must not forget or neglect the internal audit and control that is extremely important and from the experiences I have from a long-standing work experience that has not yet been established in the way it should be. Finally, by assessing the Amendments and Supplements Act on the Audit of Good and Needed Club of HSLS and HSU Representatives will be supported by the law in question.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11985	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, distinguished representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11986	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the ministry, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So here is a little more than 2.5 years have passed since the application of the Revision Act, which entered into force on 20 December 2005 and which was previously in line with EU legislation, i.e. with VIII. By Directive of the European Union. Since we have before us Chapter VI. The law of companies and that it is a Directive, VIII. The European Union Directive is amended as well as this Proposal for Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Audit before us in that part of course relating to the need for harmonisation for the legislation of the European Union. The importance of the audit or the importance of independence of the audit is stated here for the speaker. I'll look back only with a few sentences on the proposed changes and additions. First of all, allowing for changes and additions to the part in which foreign nationals, foreigners, or their audit houses in the part of the audits are allowed, therefore, in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. So, this nostration degree remains questionable. This nostration of course, i.e. the assurances of the conditions necessary for the implementation of the revision and this verification of Croatian laws, of course, which are necessary in the quality of the revision in the Croatian language. In any case, I believe that the conditions that are valid for those who must have the necessary conditions for review will also apply to the nostrification of a variety of foreign citizens' beliefs so that they will be brought to the same level. Second, for a quality shift, and this is a quality shift to enable public supervision, i.e. the establishment of a public oversight committee. However, here I would like to think about the way we get to the members of the Committee on Public Control, coming up in doubt whether it is very good for the members of this committee to appoint the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Minister of Finance. So you might consider that still respecting that really and audit but this Committee on Public Oversight really needs to be independent. So independent of those who exercise power. In this case, it seems to me that, in the case of such appointment of members for, or members of, the Committee on Public Control, this independence is not achieved, given that these members are appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and, on a proposal from the Minister of Finance. The rotation of authorised auditors which has been introduced into these amendments and additions which says that the auditor person cannot carry out an audit of the same company over two years. I think it needs to be expanded. Therefore, not only a person but also an auditory house which has been audited by a company of public interest, or that company, of a company to which this Article of the law applies. Therefore, the audit house should not or should not be audited for two years or two years. Therefore, it is possible for one audit firm to appoint an auditor of one company but, within a year, that same audit house shall appoint another auditor for the performance of the company’s audit. So I think this should also apply to the legal person or the audit house. And finally when we talk about the rotation of authorised auditors, I think there is no reason to wait for Croatia to join the European Union. That these provisions and the transparency report and what concerns the rotation of authorised auditors may be applied at the time when these amendments and amendments enter into force. Here's your attention. The Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja will accept this proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on Audit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11987	Thank you. That's what ended the club debate. We move on to individual debates and distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go. He's giving up. Dear representative of Vesna Buterin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11988	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, fellow Members and fellow MPs. The audit shall be a process of assessing and examining financial reports and data and methods used in drawing up financial reports on the basis of which an expert opinion is given on the reality and objectivity of the situation of assets, capital, liabilities and business results of entrepreneurs. The audit shall cover the examination and assessment of the business, the organisation of business functions, the way in which business decisions are taken and the functioning of the information system. The audit shall be carried out by legal persons registered for the purpose of carrying out the audit. I would like to stress here that the role of the revision in business is of paramount importance because the opinions that auditors make in their reports must guide the decision-making of business by management in enterprises and, of course, their taking responsibility for certain procedures they take. The Revision Act adopted at the end of 2005 regulates the audit of financial reports and consolidated financial reports of the audited obligors. Persons authorised to provide audit services, conditions for the provision of audit services, audit resistance, establishment and operation of the Croatian Audit Chamber and supervision of its operations, supervision and verification of the quality of the work of audit firms, independent auditors and authorised auditors, the issuing and withdrawal of the audit service authorisation and other audit-related issues shall be designated. The proposal for an amending and supplementing law on the revision that we are discussing here today primarily allows the Law on Audit to be fully aligned with the acquis of the European Union. This is how several newspapers are prescribed in the proposed amendments and additions to the Revision Act. The first of them is therefore the possibility of carrying out an audit of foreign auditors in the territory of the Republic of Croatia in such a way that an authorised auditor may be a citizen of the Republic of Croatia or a foreign national who needs to be nostified by a party to the correction proving the appointment of an authorised auditor. Furthermore, provisions relating to public oversight are also amended in the law. As we know so far, public oversight of the audit profession and the Croatian Audit Chamber has been in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance and according to these amendments of the Law requires that public oversight of the audit profession be in the jurisdiction of the public independent body, which is very important. The proposed law also amends the conditions to be met by authorised auditors carrying out quality checks on the work of audit firms, independent auditors and authorised auditors. The new provisions of the law also apply to the transparency report which audit firms and independent auditors draw up when carrying out a public-interest audit such as companies whose securities are listed on the stock market and other financial institutions and companies whose underlying capital exceeds 300 million kuna. The proposed law also provides for the replacement of authorised auditors in carrying out audits of financial reports, public-interest entities so that the authorised auditor can again participate in the audit of the same entity after a period of at least two years. This is very important because it also aims to achieve the independence of authorised auditors from the audited entity. What is more important, and what is another newspaper in these amendments and additions to the law, is that it concerns the suspension of the tariff of audit services due to compliance with the acquis of the European Union and respect for the principle of the free market. Finally, I would like to stress that I am giving full support to the adoption of this law because these amendments and amendments to the law will, above all, allow the audit process or the implementation of the audit process to be even more quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11989	Thank you. Dear Representative Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11990	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. So here I am, as my predecessors, will firstly conclude that I am really in favour of this bill, which is a quality regulation in the area of finance, the areas of the rights of companies, and not only for the reasons that we really bring these institutions in line with the Council of Europe regulations, but also for the fact that the Institute of Audits, based precisely on this regulation, will also be regulated in the Republic of Croatia in a very good, modern way, and indeed this regulation should be absolutely supported. In my opinion, the regulation has four basic papers, four of those basic elements so that we don't repeat ourselves, if I didn't say what my colleagues had previously said, these four basic elements would systematically refer to the following institutes. First, public oversight in terms of the exercise of jurisdiction of the natural Committee on Public Control. Secondly, carrying out quality checks of the auditor's work as well as one new or new manner-ordered institute. Then under the three obligations of adolescence in certain situations, the report on transparency as a development of the principle of public work, especially when it comes to public-interest entities and the fourth part or the fourth part relating to this newspaper, and in fact gives us an answer to the question of who can do all the audit work in the Republic of Croatia, because this law also provides for amendments. Let's take it in a row. Therefore, the first thing about public oversight to support is, firstly, those amendments relating to the Institute of Public Control over the audit profession and the chamber. So far, the solution has been like this. Therefore, public oversight was in the power of the Ministry of Finance, and the proposed amendments would be carried out by the Committee on Public Control whose members, on a proposal from the Minister of Finance, appoint and resolve the Government of the Republic of Croatia. That committee shall, therefore, exercise the public oversight of audit companies, independent auditors through a chamber or authorised experts, and, where appropriate, repeat, where appropriate and in cooperation with other competent state institutions. The second element or other newspaper really refers to carrying out quality checks of the work of the auditors which I also think is very important as a legal institute within the framework of the audit and is very important to highlight. Therefore, the quality of work check is in the jurisdiction of the chamber which must check independently and objectively whether the audit is carried out by 3 basic professional elements accepted. Of course, it is first in accordance with the law but also in accordance with international audit standards and methodology and other rules of the audit profession. Authorised auditors carrying out quality of work shall be subject to conditions, of course, which they must meet with five-year experience in audit tasks. The important news is that they are also appointed by the administrative board of chambers with prior consent shortly before the mentioned Committee on Public Control. As for the third element where these newspapers and improvements are seen in the development of the audit institute, in my opinion it is certainly and certainly necessary to highlight it, therefore the report on transparency. Therefore, these transparency reports, audit firms and independent auditors shall be drawn up when carrying out a public-interest audit, namely companies whose securities are listed on the stock exchange. Then, banks and other financial institutions, but also companies of particular national interest, whose share capital exceeds 300 million kuna. In addition to the transparency report, the possibility of replacing the rotation of authorised audits in carrying out audits of financial reports is also prescribed for public-interest entities. And fourth or last but not least, because it's really a new institute. So this is either the question or the answer to the question of who can be an authorised auditor in the Republic of Croatia under the provisions of this law. Therefore, the possibility of an authorised auditor or auditors being nationals of the Republic of Croatia or of foreign nationals who need it under one: to nostrate a party to which he proves his calling, and I would dare to show the knowledge and practice of the exercise of the authorised auditor and what has been mentioned so far, and to me it seems unusually the same in those and before or during the nostification it is necessary to verify the knowledge of the entire legislation of the Republic of Croatia, and this verification of the knowledge of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia, of course, that it is done in Croatian, so here it implies that knowledge of Croatian language, Croatian legislation, along with all of these other elements is one of the basic preconditions or prerequisites for foreign citizens in the Republic of Croatia to be able to deal with this business. And at the very end or bottom, this is really one quality regulation, one alignment with the European Institutes is not in the most positive sense. It will greatly, therefore, improve, and some colleagues before me also spoke about the important principle of trust in financial reports that are actually necessary in one society especially in the functioning of companies. So, the principle of trust as a basic prerequisite that the market in any way is based on these values and that I am, this regulation in that sense, and I support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11991	Dear Representative Damir Sesvečan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11992	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, before us is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Audit. This law aligns, as already said, the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union and the legal acts of the Council of Europe. Its adoption is also foreseen by a plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legal acquis of the European Union for 2008, and is also part of the negotiating chapter 6. – Company law relating to the area of audit. It is important to point out, as the State Secretary also mentioned, that the current Audit Act of 2005 was fully in line with the 8th Directive of the European Union until 17 May 2006 when it was amended by the new Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the statutory audits of annual financial reports and consolidated reports. These amendments and amendments to the law will allow the audit to be carried out with Croatian citizens and foreign citizens, whom the Croatian Audit Chamber will nostrate the correction proving the appointment of an authorised auditor. They must also pass the examination of the knowledge of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia according to the chamber programme, while meeting the general conditions for obtaining certificates. Certainly the important newspaper of this law that I want to highlight is the introduction with the supervision of the public surveillance profession. Public surveillance will be carried out through an independent body independent of the Committee on Public Control's profession. The Committee would conduct the supervision of audit firms, independent auditors and authorised auditors through a chamber or authorised experts. In order to achieve this independence from the profession, the members of the committee should be experts who are familiar with the auditory tasks, not having been professionally involved in the implementation of the audit for at least 3 years, which is precisely regulated by the provisions of Article 42d. The Committee would appoint and resolve the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Minister of Finance from a circle of representatives of the supervision of the financial system, securities markets, representatives of the Croatian National Bank, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Ministry of Finance, the Academic Community and authorised auditors. This Act continues to build on the quality verification system of audit firms, independent auditors and authorised auditors in the jurisdiction of the Chamber with the aim of organising quality checks so that they are independent of auditors who are subject to the audit, and one of the proposed ways is to allocate special funds to the Chamber for that purpose. Also, this Law introduces another newspaper which, through the obligation of auditors to audit companies of public interest to publish a transparency report on their websites. It shall contain the basic data on the auditor from the structure of the ownership structure, reference, financial management data, etc. The paper is also a rotation of authorised auditors in carrying out a review of company financial reports of public interest, meaning that the auditor may again participate in the audit of the same company after a period of at least 2 years. Finally, a very significant change in this law is the erasure of provisions relating to the tariff of audit services so that the future price of audit services will be formed on the market by a contract between clients. For these reasons, I will support this Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Revision Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11993	Thank you. And distinguished representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11994	Dear Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Here is a few words I will also say about the harmonisation of this Revision Act with European legislation from that area. Namely, the backbone of this harmonisation consists of provisions which allow the audit of foreign auditors in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, while the second part of the coordination relates to the implementation of public oversight of the audit profession and the quality of the work of audit firms and independent and authorised auditors. There is really nothing to say about this entry of foreign auditors into the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Recently, by harmonising the Law on Attorneyship, we have also enabled foreign lawyers to do legal jobs in the Republic of Croatia, so Europe is expanding its market in all segments, i.e. compliance with European legislation is largely a matter of opening up the possibility of Europe's entry into Croatia, i.e. to ensure access to our resources from those natural through infrastructure to professional ones, therefore human. And since I'm already pulling a parallel between a lawyer and an auditor, I can't even remind you of a very interesting difference. In fact, the auditors, as we have heard in previous discussions, are left with the legal opportunity to valorise their services on the market, so that the fees for the audit carried out are determined by the contract, while the prices of lawyer services are not subject to the principles of the free competition, but the legal tariffs are approved, as we know the Parliament. So, a completely different treatment of two equal waists. When it comes to public oversight, it should be said that, so far, public oversight of the audit profession has been in general and has been in the power of the Ministry of Finance. The proposed changes in the public oversight shall be transferred to the jurisdiction of the specific body independent of the profession to be called the Committee on Public Control. But members of that committee, whom 7 is still proposed by the Ministry of Finance, are appointed and resolved by the government. The assumption of independence of this committee is its financial independence, which will result in its activities being financed through the Chamber, and, if necessary, State budget resources and in this respect, it will be necessary in the state budget to provide about two hundred thousand kuna annually. The Committee on Public Control would also be tasked with working with the related supervisory authorities of other Member States of the European Union and third countries, in particular on the issues of identified irregularities in the work of foreign authorised auditors and audit firms. These are the most significant alignments with European legislation, but other than these significant ones, they are being implemented and they are being less significant or at least trying to show themselves. Under the cover of minor changes, the composition and number of members of the Management Board of the Chamber are changed in a way that reduces the number of members from 11 to 7 and abolishs the regional representation of members with priority for representatives of large audit firms. The reason for this change, according to the promoters, is easier to do work and the possibility that representatives of large audit firms should participate in the work of the Governing Council instead of audit firms from different Croatian regions, as has been the case so far. In my view, this is not a minor change in particular if it is known that, in the jurisdiction of the Board of Directors, the appointment of authorised auditors who carry out quality checks on the work of auditors and independent auditors and especially in a country with a high level of corruption, such as Croatia. Namely, this provision is double discriminatory. Once because it favors Zagreb, we know that only in Zagreb there are large audit firms and another time because it favours Zagreb again because the audit firms from other Croatian regions will no longer be able to influence, I'm afraid of anything. Such a provision is in complete contrast with the need for decentralisation of Croatia, and unfortunately for example of this law, we see that decentralisation is actually a fraud, i.e. a dead letter on paper. There is no decentralisation of Croatia without decentralisation of its resources, and professional people are certainly the most important resource. In smaller local areas, there are no stronger audit companies, no law firms, no tax consulting companies, no institutions, nothing to guarantee faster development. Everything concentrates in Zagreb. How to deal with large, or specific situations, imagine a small auditor getting in the way of a large one, resent it, will be immediately eliminated from the auditory market. It will disappear or be a hired task force for a large auditory house, which, of course, will collect creams and the small ones remain crumbs. I just don't think that's allowed. In addition, such a legal solution reduces the quality of the audit work, large audit houses for greater profits, employs a large number of young people without experience because it is really hard to reach the authorised auditors. And if it is difficult to find an experienced auditor, it must also be seen under the provisions of this Bill proposal, which so far makes it important for an authorised auditor to carry out quality checks on the work of auditors and auditors to have 10 years of internships, so that criterion is significantly tempered so that only five years of work experience is now sufficient. So these young people look at only one narrow segment of the business of the audited entity and, in fact, it's practically based on an audit opinion, everything else is known from previous years, because we know that the audit business relationship is multi-annual and it's all being charged for big money. The novelty in the draft law is also a report on transparency that we have heard a lot about, which will be developed for companies whose shares are listed on the stock market for banks and companies of particular state interest whose core capital exceeds 300 million kuna. These reports will also make only large audit firms, and the provision that authorised auditors signing those reports must rotate will essentially change nothing because only the authorised auditor will rotate, but within the same audit house. Therefore, the audit office does not only change authorised auditors within it. So to conclude, my main objection to this bill is to centralise the audit profession, extremely important professions, respected professions, so far unpromised professions, which is rare in Croatia, so this one centralisation at the expense of small companies outside Zagreb. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11995	Thank you. Does a government official want to take a word for it? Yeah. Dear Zdravko Maric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11996	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here I would first of all like to thank all those who have responded to the word today and participated in the debate. Some of the questions and comments I have heard in any case can confirm that even within the framework of the task force that worked on making this law were actually mentioned then. I would take a chronological look at some of the points that I heard and briefly commented on. As far as the newspapers are concerned, this law on giving opportunities and foreign citizens to carry out their audits in the Republic of Croatia, in any case I think some of their colleagues also answered the question. Therefore, the intention was, in any case, to comply with European directives. What is very important to say, therefore, we cannot ask such persons for a degree in knowledge of Croatian language, but we can ask them to verify the knowledge of Croatian legislation in the law in Article 3 exactly, so in the field of accounting and audit, trade law, tax law and labour law. Also, I would refer to exactly what the profession has actually asked for and asked for, this is something that the European directive, the 8th directive, is actually in force in the Member States of the European Union, but in any case their experience shows us how much they need a certain adjustment that perhaps in this context it is better to wait a little longer. As for the suspension of tariffs, they go practically with the date of entry into force of this law. As for the board of public oversight and appointments, we heard in the comments there was precisely a key word: "independence". However, I would mention here, so the basic message of independence is independence from the profession in the sense that quality is monitored and the quality of the profession is carried out, and there is less emphasis on independence from the government. Because you are, because the article of Law 42.d is also quoted where it says that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will, on a proposal from the Minister of Finance, appoint a committee that has seven members, made up of representatives of the supervision of the financial system,... the securities markets of the Croatian National Bank, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Ministry of Finance, the Academic Community and the authorised auditors. So anyway there's a greater emphasis and actually a real emphasis on independence from the chamber. As regards the expansion of the time range of rotations, and the expansion itself, in the sense that it applies not only to the authorised auditor but to the whole legal person, or whether an independent, whether an audit society, there should actually be said that in any case we will consider that suggestion, but at this point it is not really necessary, because it is the authorised auditor who signs the audit report and he actually has this board of public oversight, yet it is the roof body that actually has the possibility to control the quality of work. As regards the reduction of the number and the abolition of the regional component in the Committee on Public Control, i.e. in the Chamber, I would certainly say that the intention was in no way centralised, but that in consultation and in fact suggestions and professions and members and chambers actually showed us and pointed out that it would be necessary to actually reduce the number of these members of the Board of Directors in order to actually improve the efficiency of the business, to improve it, but in any case there was no intention of actually holding back the process of decentralisation, i.e. the chamber would go in the sense of centralisation. As for the issues, or comments related to years of work, or years of experience required by an authorised auditor, I think that in any case we should look at the quality and efficiency of the work, and I repeat once again that one such body as the Committee on Public Control will actually serve exactly the purpose of assessing whether, including the younger or older auditor, the authorised auditor has done his job properly. Here's one more time I thank you all anyway for your comments and suggestions. We'll take into account everything that's been said here during this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11997	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11998	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd actually like to say through correction that we don't actually allow a foreign auditor not to have to know the Croatian language. The verification of his knowledge of Croatian legislation is carried out in Croatian. How he'll pass such a test if he doesn't know the language. That's what I warned you about in my presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u11999	That wasn't exactly a real correction, but okay, it's over. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when they get the necessary conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12000	Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Audit, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 99, the debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the Government submitted amendments and proposed that a third reading be carried out in accordance with Article 158(2) of this legislative proposal. I am voting in accordance with the Government's proposal: A third reading will be carried out on the final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Revision Act. Let's please get involved and vote on this proposal for a conclusion. Score. The conclusion was accepted by most votes, 131 votes for and 3 abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12001	We move to the fourth item of the agenda, that is - Proposal for a law on the processing and use of wood and wood products, first reading, P.Z. No. 86 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply, Articles 144 to 150. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Herman Sušnik, State Secretary at the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12002	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. In front of you is the proposal for a law on the processing and use of wood and wood products. The wooden industry of the Republic of Croatia represents a significant economic potential that has started a programme and market reform with a focus on the creation of a market for oriented economic policy. The importance of wood industry is reflected in the processing potential. Use of raw materials, domestic raw materials that are quality, certified and available, export orientation, experience and traditions and personnel. According to statistics, the wood industry operates 1381 economic operators. About 25 thousand workers were employed directly, but with Croatia's forests and various cooperatives, the number goes up to more than 45 thousand workers. In 2004, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a strategy for the development of industrial wood and paper processing, which confirmed the orientation towards promoting final production and increasing exports. In 2006, it also adopted an Operational Programme for the Development of Industrial Wood Processing for the period 2006 to 2010 with the purpose of improving and improving the sector. It is crucial that future strategic development and investment are well targeted. For the first time, the operational programme has been allocated to grants for the wood sector, and with the addition of quality cooperation with Habur there is no question of competitive development of industrial wood processing. The strategy was based on the proposal for a law on the processing and use of wood and wood products. We have not had such a document so far, and we wish that the entire cycle of wood processing, starting from wood raw materials to the final product, will be more systemically organised to achieve even more significant economic and social impacts of the wood and forestry sector. Short to say what this law is planning to introduce. Minimum technical conditions for production plants of wood and furniture processing. It happens that part of the production plant does not meet the minimum technical conditions to deal with production, which cannot be rationally used by wood raw materials. Quality regulation of wood products and production processes, technical regulations, technical permits. We are aware that the goods of poor quality from imports appear on our market and that there should be control on the basis of the rules adopted and allow customers to buy the quality of the wood product. Administrative and inspection surveillance. So there will be a woodworking inspection. It will form a wood market with the task of improving the trade in wood and primary wood processing products, i.e. to approach the problem of solving the distribution of raw materials. enable domestic wood growers to purchase deficit raw materials and to process the same to the maximum added value. Available raw materials are enough to meet the needs of Croatian finalists. Companies that bought raw materials under contract from the Croatian Forests will be obliged to offer all their market surpluses via the stock market, i.e. to sell by direct offer only if they do not show the interest of the domestic company. The Research Centre for wood products and furniture development will be established. This centre should propose an action framework that will gradually but permanently work on the technological and technical improvement of the development of the economy in the field of wood processing and use. In recent years, the wood industry has achieved a positive export ratio against imports. So in 2007, exports of wood, wood products and furniture were $932 million while imports were $836 million. So it's a $96 million positive. In the first four months of 2008, exports amounted to $369.7m, while imports of $301m and here, in four months, were already positive for $68m. Exports in 2008 are expected to be $1.2 billion. Happy that the final product in the export structure is represented by 75%, i.e. furniture with 45% and other finished products from wood 30%. The participation in exports of the Republic of Croatia for the first four months of 2008 is 8.22% and in imports of 2.92%. Exports of logs as raw materials in 2007 accounted for only 2% of the total production of hulls in the Croatian forests d.o.o. which are suppliers of wood industry with over 97% raw materials. In 2007, 2.2 million cc's of hulls were produced. In 2008, sales of export troops will be approximated. What cannot be processed in domestic companies will be sold. This indicates a positive trend in the reduction in the export of wood raw materials by producing almost all furniture from domestic raw materials. Croatia has an annual growth in furniture production at 9%, while consumption growth is 11% at the same time. I've said all of this to show that this is a significant economic potential. Surely there is still a lot of work to be done, but there is also a need to think about the future as an important foundation for this industry to become internationally competitive. It is important to use natural wood resources rationally, to preserve the environment, to increase the number of employees in the sector, especially what is done in most companies in the rural area. To enable our wood processing to be brought closer to the European market by encouraging investment in the production of higher levels of processing and higher added value, and all on the principles of environmentally acceptable management through the maximum use of biomass... as a source, a natural source of raw materials to obtain energy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since this is the first reading here, I expect a constructive debate so that the bill itself can improve until the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12003	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. The Honorable Chairman of the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, Kelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12004	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a law on the processing and use of wood and wood products submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 29 May 2008. The Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy of the Croatian Parliament is set out in the draft law in accordance with the provisions of Article 88. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed as a parent working body. The applicant's representative pointed out in the opening statement that the proposed law would enable the creation of a normative basis for the regulation of the entire cycle of wood processing and use from the forest to the end-user and improve the control of the transport and quality of wood and furniture products. In the overall debate involving representatives of associations and wood processing industry, the committee members supported the adoption of that law, since it will allow for the rapid development of this activity, which is constantly recorded by the export surplus, and contributes significantly to regional development by using capacity. In further discussion, it was stated that the production of biomass energy when wood is used as basic raw materials has significant potential in increasing employment and income that can be achieved in these productions, and therefore it is necessary to develop this area more closely in law. The producers supported the inspection control provisions, but warned of the need for certification of imported furniture because otherwise inspection controls would only burden our producers further, while the quality of imported furniture will remain questionable. In the debate, the opinion was also given that in order to protect domestic furniture manufacturers, consideration should be given to the way in which large trade chains would be obliged to sell furniture to Croatian producers. It is also pointed out that because of the significant areas of forests that are privately owned, it should also be for persons who sell or buy primary wood processing products, which are not purchased from the Croatian forests d.o.o., they should also bind to the products that stop or make extra offers to the stock exchange. On the basis of the debate held, the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and the Water Economy of the Croatian Parliament unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to reach the next conclusion. One, the Proposal for a Law on the Processing and Management of Wood and Wood Products is adopted. And two, all comments and proposals submitted in the debate will be submitted to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12005	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Clubs first. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Branko Boxti.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12006	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Natural wealth such as wood is an important material that needs to be rationally put into operation of overall development. In terms of rationality, it is primarily considered to develop those products and services where comparable advantages from the environment, i.e. countries in the region or from the whole market of Europe can be fully realised. So far, production indifference or the drive to achieve the greatest short-term effects actually lead to the devastation of natural potential. For these reasons, it is necessary to implement a complete reconstruction towards the development of production, high-quality product, high-grade processing with the support of sophisticated technology. Otherwise, we are exposed to the classic dangers of development, dependent on external factors that we cannot influence. Industrial wood processing of the Republic of Croatia has many comparable advantages used in existing activities under the operational programme for the development of industrial wood processing of the Republic of Croatia from 2006 to 2010 in order to improve and improve the sector with particular emphasis on its own natural advantages, long-term tradition of wood processing and placement on certain markets, a high level of privatisation and quality human potential. To take advantage of these potentials, to respond to key challenges, such as unsatisfactory programming and competitiveness, and to the decline or stagnating of the number of employees, it is essential that future strategic development and investment are well targeted. The overall climate in the sector was mature for structural changes, as most producers are aware of the fragileness of the market position in times of growing global competition and the need to approach a change in business policy. Strengthening the institutional environment was also one of the challenges, as until then practice has shown the lack of those in the industrial processing of wood, indicating the need to sensitise the views of all relevant institutional factors. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided to set up a wood industry administration within the former agriculture ministry in the spring of 2004. Shortly thereafter, it adopted a strategy for the development of industrial wood and paper processing, which identified this sector as a priority for the overall economic, environmental and social development of the Republic of Croatia. It was a kind of reward and recognition for the great effort made by the ministry along with the people of the wood and forest profession, and science. Before the war, the wood sector employs tens of thousands of people, and more importantly, it is a wave in rural areas and less developed Croatian regions. And it was those regions that suffered the most in the Homeland War, not just materially. Many industrial plants for wood processing have been destroyed and destroyed, which were mainly the holders of the development of the local area or even the whole region, and there has been a departure of quality and educated labour to other parts of the Republic of Croatia or abroad. This difficult situation in the 1990s last and early this century has exhausted the domestic processing of wood, and especially the production of furniture, regardless of the tradition of the production of wood and furniture products based on domestic wood raw materials and quality personnel trained in Croatian secondary and high schools. As a result of all this, Croatia had a deficit in the exchange of wood and wood and furniture products measured in hundreds of millions of dollars. Even more unfavourable was the structure of the trade in goods, because the moss exported wood as raw materials or products of primary wood processing, i.e. sawdust and elements, and mostly imported furniture. The wood processing sector is one of the parts of the economy that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has drawn as perspective and important for the country's further economic development. The wooden sector of the Republic of Croatia, which is primarily the production of furniture and other final products of wood, is experiencing a strong growing trend. The main reasons for this are the measures set by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to raise the economic position of the manufacturer to a level that allows for increasing competitiveness of export strengthening, interesting integration, and the partnership of the wood and forestry sector. The wood sector belongs to a series of rare economic branches that are achieving a constant external trade surplus. According to official data, exports increased 29.4% in 2007. At the same time, imports grew by 21.5% slower. The coverage of exports in the upcoming trend was 111.51% in 2007. The participation of wood sector exports in the total exports of the Republic of Croatia also increased from 6.95 in 2006 to 7.54 in 2007. A positive trend continued in the first four months of 2008. The final product in the export structure is represented with 75 or 45 furniture, while the other final products from wood 30%, while the export of wood raw materials in the form of logs makes a practically negligible part. The Government of the Republic of Croatia prior to that objective difficulty, and the importance of the domestic wood-processing industry, i.e. all forestry-based industries for the overall economic development of the Republic of Croatia. There are three fundamental reasons why that's the case. The domestic wood industry, i.e. raw materials, the distribution of wood processing and furniture production plants, and wood-based crafts from Vukovar, practically all the way to Dubrovnik, knowledge and tradition. That it was well done and that the right strategy was adopted, they showed statistics until 2004. Croatia had a deficit in the trade of wood, wood and furniture products. That was the first time a $17m surplus was achieved compared to a $15m deficit in 2003. The trend in trade between the wood sector as previously demonstrated has continued until today. At the same time, the adoption of the strategy was a strong incentive for further work on its implementation, i.e. operationalisation, resulting in the creation of an operational programme for the development of the industrial processing of Croatian wood from 2006 to 2010. With this document, the government has allocated significant financial resources to improve and improve the wood sector. For the next 5 years, it will co-finance the development of a 201 million kuna sector, and a billion kunas are projected through favourable credit leagues. The continued allocation of State support grants until 2010 adapted to the development priorities of the dynamic operational line with the addition of quality cooperation with HABOR is without prejudice to the competitive development of industrial wood processing. Finally, all activities and measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Croatia through the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy are aimed at improving the competitiveness of the state sector products in a way that creates preconditions to achieve the visibility of the sector and bring our wood processing closer to the European market by encouraging investment in the production of high-grade products and greater added value. And on the principles of environmentally acceptable management through the maximum use of biomass as a renewable natural source of raw materials to obtain energy. The Croatian Democratic Community club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12007	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, Honorable Representative Vlatko Podnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12008	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. First of all, the SDP Club welcomes this Law on the processing and use of wood products. In our assessment of the state of the wood industry, we absolutely agree that this sector can and must be a driver for the development of the Republic of Croatia. The data itself... in an external trade exchange, they make a contribution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On this surplus is primarily in the export of sawn buildings and elements while the import of finished furniture has been since the export of the same. The participation of the wood sector in total exports for 2006 is 6.95, while the total imports account for 3.50%. So a $32.3m surplus was made for 2006. Employment in this sector is in primary wood processing of around 11.5 thousand, furniture production of around 11.5 thousand, cellulose and paper industries of about 6.5 thousand, which is then approximately 30 thousand, which is about 50%. Surely, the privatisation and non-compliance process in the emerging market conditions has destroyed leading finalists. Just in the area of my constituency... as an example of poor governance of state property or one... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] a good example of privatisation and continuation of work and expansion of production. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There are therefore certain reasons, above all, for the commercial thinking of the largest and fastest resulting from the sale of troops on the foreign market. After that, there are over 500 sawmills in Croatia. Exports of sawn buildings and then elements. All of this was also supported by the suspension of export duties. The capacity of the sawmills in Croatia is about 6 million ccs and the possibility of the production of the hulls is about 2 million ccs, meaning only one third of Croatian forests can produce logs. The beginning of this decade begins to reflect on the increasing finalisation of wood products and the introduction of order on the wood market. So it was introduced that processors in primary processing must have droughts and finalization to at least the elements. This part limited export of sawn buildings and elements but still insufficient. So according to the Department of Statistics in 2006, a huge tree was exported 385 thousand tons, worth $21.7 million, unprocessed wood 452 thousand, worth $36.7 million, a wood processed 47.1 million worth of $181 million. Considering that Croatian forests, d.o.b. The sale of about 100,000 cubic metres, i.e. about one ton about one cubic meter, on an international auction, because they get so much approval from the Ministry of Economy, raises the question of who, and how, approves the remaining amount of 352,000 cubic metres, i.e. tonnes. The processed wood in the amount converted into logs as a basic raw material is about 1 million and 170 thousand cc's. When we add up the unprocessed logs, it turns out that about a million and 600 thousand cc's of hulls are exported from Croatia and that for the final processing, the rest means up to 500, 600 thousand cubic cc's. Why is that? There are more reasons, but the basic one is in the national forestry policy and strategy adopted by the government in 2003 and the strategy for the development of the industrial processing of wood and paper adopted by the government in 2004. In the forestry policy and strategy, the priority of solving the problem in the wood industry is to abolish the state control of prices of wood varieties, develop a wood sales system adapted to the needs of the free market and domestic production, promote and develop production with a view to optimising the use of raw materials. Measures to encourage exports of final products. And in the strategy of developing industrial wood and paper processing to establish European standards in the function of exports and protection of Croatian products, to establish quality control of import products by introducing European standards, certification obligations and attestes for products and processes in the industrial processing of wood, to establish appropriate institutions for the implementation of product control, a market relationship should be introduced in the formation of prices of goods and services, the conditions and methods of selling goods and services of the Croatian Forests should be defined, these models of the sale of forest products in the function of exports of final products. The strategy brought by different governments, when we know that one is in 2003, one is the underlying problem in 2004 and that is the market. And what kind of market is that for us today? The Ministry of Economy continues to determine the prices of wood assortants of the Croatian Forests, and the race for conjuncture species such as oak is not on the market principle, i.e. supply and demand and per sustainability of the income of the Croatian Forests. So those who produce, for example, parquet as a semi-certain product and do not have a sawmill, do not get a contract, right to contract with Croatian forests, and some who need a small quantity for the final product get far above the need. In this way, contracts are concluded which, according to the quantities of logs, did not exceed the production potential of the Croatian forests. Therefore, if strategies had been respected and applied to this law, it would not have come to this, and this law could have seen the light of day before, but here it is, better now than never. To hope that this proposed law and its sublegal acts will finally resolve what is the final product, who, as well as where products, license the manufacturer through the monitoring system. So then finally find out really needed quantities for the final production. Since this proposal is in the first reading, we propose that, after the adoption of the law after the second reading, sublegal acts are adopted within 6 months, this proposal is scheduled for a year. This law also states what mass it was. In the use of this natural and renewable resource, Croatia has great opportunities. Primarily through employment and then through energy savings and production. Therefore, we ask the promoter to present to us, within the framework of the overall energy strategy, or this law, this part of the use of biomass, primarily from wood, and the programme of development and possibilities of this resource. We're saying this for the reasons of modernity, because then everyone's going to want to build heat and energy, and it's going to become a questionable amount of such a tree. This law prescribes minimum technical conditions for the production of primary wood and furniture processing, quality control of wood products and production processes, technical characteristics of wood and furniture products, technical regulations and technical authorisation. All of this is approved by an authorized person, an authorized legal person, but it doesn't say which one? Is the Research Centre a wood product and... furniture or a forest college or someone else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We believe that this should also include control of imported furniture according to Croatian or European norms. This is primarily needed to protect the domestic consumer, but also to protect the manufacturer. This law also requires minimum quantities to be purchased from domestic producers but not from traders. It is also necessary to regulate and trade furnified splinteres in order to prevent black-to-black twists by system I am everyone's master. The proposed law introduces and establishes a stock exchange primarily to improve wood trade and the primary wood processing product. And its activity is to intervene in trade through the supply and demand of wood and primary wood processing products. The idea and the idea is great, but we're afraid it'll be difficult to implement for two reasons. The stock exchange stipulates that only a tree originating in the Croatian forests is to be published on the stock market. What about the tree of other legal and physical persons? National parks, the Ministry of Defence and private forest owners. In Croatia, there is a return of nationalised property and so is the forest. In return there are about 150 thousand hectares of forest which is assumed by the adoption of forest management programs... of about 600,000 cubic cc's or about 200 thousand cc's. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, all excess production should be placed on the market regardless of the origin of the original ownership of the state or private. If the market has to be registered and the price requested and the manufacturer has agreed quantities for export can also place a higher price than agreed. He's not selling it on the stock market. He's selling it to his contracted buyer. And advertising puts the price down. It shall thereafter report on the transport market and shall be recorded on the price of the offer. So instead of artificially creating a higher price than real. Those are still outstanding questions for now. The bill states that the founder and interested parties will then be determined, but I think some things still need to be settled legally. We believe that, until this is clarified and the stock market is formed and the work begins, or until the entry into the European Union, to consider introducing export duties, especially on unprocessed wood or logs due to over-exportation without added value. From these means, let's stimulate the real finalists to introduce new technologies. The establishment of a Centre for the Research of Wood Products and the development of furniture is certainly necessary to coordinate quality with the European Union which will help manufacturers but also consumers. The establishment of controls or inspections will certainly introduce order in control and production, as well as the movement of goods primarily on input raw materials regardless of its origin. Until the second reading, we ask the Proposer to respect these remarks and suggestions and the SDP Club supports this law in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12009	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, the esteemed representative Zdravko Kelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12010	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Some of the famous people who know how to say "brands" are sure to include Croatian oak, or our oak tree, whose quality is well known. Therefore, when we talk about the law on the processing and use of wood and wood products, we are talking about a regulation that will regulate the entire cycle of wood processing and use. From forest to end-user. In this respect, it is important for this valuable renewable raw material to be added to the processing process. For example, through the creation of recognizable furniture that will be competitive not only in Croatia but also in other countries' markets with quality and modern design. In this respect, this legislative proposal also provides assumptions for improving the control of the transport and quality of wood and furniture products on the principles applicable in the European Union countries as well as for the business integration of interested entities and the establishment of institutional support. It also protects consumers' interests. Wood is a renewable raw material which, except for the production of furniture and other wood products in the form of bio-mass, can also be used to produce energy. It is also environmentally acceptable material and is in line with the development of environmental awareness to expect and boost demand. That the forestry and wood industry, which is based on its exceptional meaning, also confirms that over 40% of the territory of the Republic of Croatia is covered by forests and forest land, and 95% of the natural composition, which in terms of biodiversity represents an exceptional value that the European country has for which we should thank the Croatian foresters who ruled them on sustainablely or how they like to say the permanent way of two centuries before the syntagma of sustainable development is even forged. The importance of perhaps better said the potential of the Croatian wood industry also suggests that the processing of wood and the production of wood products and the production of furniture in 2006 achieved an export surplus which places the sector in order of rare economic branches that produce an external trade surplus. According to data from the State Statistics Office, domestic companies in the field of processing and use of wood and furniture production exported goods worth $555.6 million in the first seven months of 2007 which is 32 and a half percent increase from the same last year when exports amounted to $419.24 million. At the same time, imports of goods from the same sector were imported by 483,3 million, which points to the coverage of imports by 115% and shows a good export surplus. All this indicates that wood processing and production of wood products and the production of furniture in the last few years passes through significant positive transformations also shows that the coverage of exports to this sector in the last 5 years is in the upward trend and moves on average around 103%. The total balance of the exchange of wood, wood and furniture for 2006 is around EUR 23 and a half million, while at the same time the exchange balance of furniture only with abroad continues to be a negative trend for the increase and is about 69 million for 2006. These data tell us that the production of furniture or finished wood products despite the negative business balance that was present 15 years ago can be done with positive results. Thus, the participation of wood sector exports in the total exports of the Republic of Croatia in 2006 was 6.9% and total exports in the same year were $720.8 million. The share of exports, processing of wood and furniture in total exports for the first 7 months of 2007 is 8.13% which is a significant increase of 1.18% compared to 2006 and a good sign of growth of the economic branch. On the other hand, the participation of imports of wood in the total imports of the Republic of Croatia in 2006 was 3.20% and amounted to $688.5 million, while in the first 7 months of 2007 it was 3.33% or 483,3 million. The related imports increased by 0.13% compared to the same period in 2006. In addition to these positive trends, however, concerns that the income of employees in the industrial processing of wood and furniture production is significantly lower than the national average. For example, the amount of net salary per employee for 2005 in wood processing amounted to 2643 kuna, and in furniture production 2741 kuna, which is significantly lower than the national average of around 4300 kuna in 2005. In fact, it is a significant number of workers whose number in this sector was around 23,000 in 2005. More than 60% of companies employ up to 5 workers, which says that there is a large part of production in small companies, and that with the sector further developed, it is expected and paid growth. This is particularly important because it is mainly about companies located in the rural area. It should be pointed out that Croatian forests cut annually at 2.2 million cubic metres 94% through a contract to sell to the Croatian wooden industry while only 2% are directly exported and 4% sold on the domestic market through bids. The fact is that the annual woodcutting label is becoming insufficient for the real needs of the current number of producers, and in due course it will be necessary to consider the models how to solve this. We have hundreds of processors, and we're aware there can't be that many of them in our market. If we're looking at neighboring countries, then we can see it at our place and on the market. If we look at neighboring countries, then we can see what that number is in their hands relative to that number that we have. It is important to stress that Croatia's forests, by obtaining a certificate guaranteeing consumers that wood comes from a forest that is managed in a sustainable way, by respecting strict economic, social and ecological standards to the domestic wood industry, have provided a comparative advantage in foreign markets. In fact, consumers' awareness of their own role in environmental protection is growing, and such standards have been created in order to have an independent confirmation that the choice of products that they own will not participate in environmental destruction. In addition to the so-called market. organic products are rapidly developing, so besides certified food produced in organic agriculture, there are already standards for green furniture that are increasingly wanted in some of our neighbouring countries. In Italy, for example, such furniture is used to equip kindergartens. Therefore, it would be good if, if not all of them, and then at least part of the Croatian wooden industry decided to introduce such standards in their own production and eco-design, because space for commercial eco furniture exists on the market. This would result in additional value through certified production of organic furniture from the Croatian Forests. Croatian oak is known as brand and it would be a shame to miss the possibility of creating a new brand of Croatian organic furniture. We also welcome in HSS the regulation of the use of biomass as a renewable energy source because in a situation where oil prices are constantly rising, but even more because of the worrying consequences of climate change as well as the commitments made under the Kyoto Protocol in terms of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, the use of renewable energy sources is extremely significant. The HSS Club will therefore support this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12011	Thank you. And on behalf of the HNS Club, distinguished representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12012	Dear Mr. Vice President, the honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a bill that is definitely new to our legislation, which we have not so far, and which is obviously necessary to regulate normally this activity for which Croatia has significant comparative advantages. In particular, significant areas under the forest and which, according to the data, also record significant export results, i.e. to introduce order on the market. But let me start by saying a few general observations about the theme of forest management at the beginning on behalf of the HNS Club. It should be said that the availability of forest wealth is a matter of particular importance, because it is a natural resource whose exploitation, whose management is an important element of a new concept of sovereignty. If, then, we do not rule in Croatia, have forest wealth, but it does so to us by someone else as well as natural sources such as water, sea, coastal waters, energy sources, we will hardly be able to talk about the content of sovereignty that comes on the agenda after the national-romantic story of old forms and symbols of sovereignty from the 19th and 20th centuries is exhausted. Unfortunately, we have forest wealth management primarily in line with the interests of exporters and wood growers. It is often information that this is a sector where there is a lot of corruption. I'll say a few examples from which it's visible that it would be very good for someone to take care of the so-called seriously. the economic basis of the Croatian forests. Never and nowhere in the history of Croatia except for the deforestation of Slavonian swamps after the colonists moved into the 17th and 18th centuries did not cut the woods under their hair. That's what the people call "cut" when the whole floods are cut off without ensuring the constant restoration of the forest fund. Namely, the economic base was everywhere and always meant gradually and criteria based on the extraction of wood mass, but also the restoration, and today, I will tell you in the ring around the city of Zagreb, so in Zagreb County you can see k if it seems in practice if you go to Turopolje. The Shaljakowska dubrava, the Marklin dubrava are large forests mostly oaks. They have forest mass on their edges, and when you enter the woods, you will find huge areas, dozens of hectares completely visited that look like moon bark. It's said that these surfaces are supposed to be sniffing out. But when that surface that is now chica's going to be trained to produce the tree of the size that was up until a few years ago there. It's a matter of decades. Equally, what was done in the destruction of the Turopolje Luga is a straight-up ecocid. Namely, the Turopolje Lug is a protected area because of the oak of the watermelon with a protected type of Turopolj pig that cannot live and survive as a protected Croatian breed without grain. It seems to me that Mr Grubisic mentioned today that the Republic of Croatia is one of the few when it comes to products with protected features in which it is harvested, or pigs are fed in oak forests. The way things are going, and it's going to take a very short time. And let's mention one more thing, let's not forget the land communities in the Republic of Croatia are looking for 450 thousand acres of forest land. It is those who observe how the masters, or how they exploit and destroy what their ancestors have created for decades and centuries, with the march of a good master and thanks to the fact that many regions have raised their economic success and social solidarity. I remind you, that property was taken away from them in 1947 without any right to compensation. In Slovenia, the property was returned to them. Croatia has no hearing of the problem. Furthermore, it would have been better if the applicant had provided more recent statistics in the assessment of the situation, rather than those in 2006. It is stated that this law creates preconditions for the adoption of a national wooden-technological platform, and no provision in the proposal speaks of the adoption of that platform, who brings it, within which time must be adopted, and therefore it would be good to prescribe, somewhere in the law, an authorisation for the adoption of that platform if necessary. As regards concrete remarks for which we would like the applicant to consider them for a second reading, i.e. the final proposal, these are, above all, provisions relating to the technical authorisation covered by Articles 15, 16 and 17 of this proposal of the law, because we believe that we should elaborate more clearly, in terms of both terms and from the point of view of the procedure. The technical authorisation shall bear the name of the decision. It's like he's being betrayed by a state body, not a legal person, and there's still a publication in the People's Newspaper. As regards the procedure, the technical authorisation of the issuing of an authorised legal person, and if the product does not have the necessary technical characteristics, shall put the technical authorisation outside the power of the minister. The proposer has to decide what he really wants. Whether or not to include the Ministry in this issuing process. Otherwise, as suggested, it's kind of the opposite of each other. Second, as regards the wood market, which is clearly needed in this branch, the provision of Article 18 should be clarified and completed. It appears that it is proposed that the wood market be an association because it is established to improve trade in wood, and it is proposed to establish itself as a commercial company in the status of a limited-responsibility society. It should also be added in paragraph 2 that the founders of the legal person are registered according to the national classification of the activity because it is missing. Generally speaking, we can accept this initial proposal in the first reading because it is the new framework that normably regulates one area that has not been solved so far. It is a profitable activity, so we think the rules of the game should be introduced, but we ask that we be given answers to these open questions and that some materially and nomotechnically miss the documents until the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12013	Thank you. That's what ended the club debate. We move to an individual debate and is the first respected representative of Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12014	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. I believe that the adoption of the Law on the Processing and Use of Wood and Wood Products is one of the key documents that should in the long term ensure an increase in the quality of our products and generally increase the competitiveness of wood industry. Namely, the market is increasingly demanding, quality standards and design become the main parameters of competitiveness on the global market and therefore our wood industry needs to make additional efforts to capitalise our strategic advantages from the tradition in production, good raw materials to experience and human resources, so professions. This law is in place to strengthen the domestic wood industry and its competitiveness, as well as the quality standards it prescribes, which are therefore prescribed both for production and for trade and for imports, etc. they should be in the capacity to protect domestic production and protect our market against unfair competition from imports. This law should also be a challenge and an incentive to the wood industry to export unprocessed wood as much as possible, and rather than loggers, we export expensive design furniture, so highly finished products in which additional value has been incorporated through technology, through the knowledge of our experts, especially designers, because we can't take away the impression in public that it's still such perception, so regardless of this surplus of exports that we have, so it's not the height of exports and of this surplus, but of its structure, so we're still just a good raw material base and that in that sense, we have a larger export brand alone oak oak and a log of oak than highly designed oak furniture. Therefore, there is also perception that it is changing, so the steps in this sector have been made. In particular, we should commend the government's efforts which took place several years ago with a number of incentive measures and with over a hundred million kunas of subsidies that go to the wood industry, the furniture industry, and where the segment, therefore around the design, around the marketing industry, was specifically targeted, because I don't think we've used enough of our own potential or the potential of our own experts. Two important innovations in this law are, therefore, the establishment of a stock exchange and the establishment of a wood product research centre. I think it's a key qualitative shift. The establishment of a wood stock exchange and a research centre for wood products and furniture development should be the main added value. So, the main engine of development and in a certain way is an indication that this industry is not only left to the market, but that the state is trying to systematically edit this area, but also systematically take care of it, encourage it, therefore in the development function. Without knowledge and expertise that would concentrate and place the wood industry into operation of all producers through the Research Centre, it is not possible to compete with designers' powers. Our export opportunity is, above all, in high-finalized products in which knowledge is built and our chance is in high finalization and in creating designer brands in furniture production. All of this should be achieved in the synergy of the Research Centre and of our producers. The establishment of the stock exchange, on the other hand, and in particular its position as market regulation, regulation of supply and demand, price, quality standards, is an extremely demanding job and should be believed that the stock market, as prescribed, will be set up and functioning as soon as possible, because it is not only an important market regulator but is in a certain way also a measure to restructure this economic branch and it should encourage our producers to associate and increase production capacities. And I finally show support for this law and also support for all those measures that the government has put into restructuring and generally changing the structure of the wood industry, so all those support that has been engaged specifically in the intensive, therefore the cooperation of universities of the academic community, and it has also resulted in meaning through design, means also through some new view and new perspectives on the development of this industry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12015	I was scheduled to give my word for correction to Mr. Podnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12016	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to correct just one incorrect quote from my colleague Goran Beus about Croatian forests cutting towards exporters and having to examine the economic grounds. Croatia's forests primarily sir in accordance with the Law on Forests and in accordance with the Regulation on Regulation on Regulation on Regulation on Regulation on Regulation on Regulation on the basis of which they provide the basis of the management base for economic units or forest economic... based area. Normally, to cut down what was rejuvenated 150 years ago, or cut down, and now it has come back to eating the stage of maturity, and because of the impact and climate and levels, the descent of groundwater levels has to occur and the drying process has then accelerated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12017	Thank you. It's Ms. Nevenka Marinovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12018	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a strategy for the development of industrial processing of wood and paper in 2004 with the aim of addressing the economic crisis in that segment and to encourage and with certain objectives and measures, but also to enable instruments to change and make this economic structure possible. It was necessary to resolve the organic structure, the organic structural imbalance and ensure new dimensioning of growth and development through exports and the competitiveness of products. Price incompetence was the biggest obstacle to Croatian exports of wood products. Incentive measures by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to reduce production costs, but to increase investment opportunities in export programmes were then the basis of the strategy. The processing of wood and wood products is a significant segment of the economy of the Republic of Croatia. This segment of development is based on the use of domestic natural resources and is traditionally export-oriented. The characteristics of this branch are a high share of domestic raw materials and export orientation, a sustained trend in the growth of demand for wood, the dispersion of businesses and profit centres, the possibility of employment in small places, but environmentally acceptable production and relatively low investment. I will visit here on a vision from that strategy that defined this segment as a modern, organised interconnected complex association of manufacturers, traders, service companies and consultants. This segment takes a significant place according to the share in the gross social product of the Republic of Croatia. It is export-oriented with competitive high-grade products, which are generally profitable, based on strong product development, technology and production management, environmentally acceptable and efficient in eco-management as a general concept of sustainable development, and the main objectives and strategies have been to change the structure in favour of exports of final products, increase the competitiveness of final products, increase employment and ensure the retention of inhabitants in less populated areas of the Republic of Croatia, but also promote the development and protection of wood processing and furniture production, etc. So what are the results today in this segment after one part of this strategy has been implemented? The processing of wood and production of wood products and furniture production achieved an export surplus in 2006 which is classified as a group of rare economic branches with an external trade surplus. In the structure of the gross social product of the Republic of Croatia, the sector participates with a total of 0.9%. The coverage of imports by export is in the upward trend, and the total product balance means wood and furniture for 2006 amounts to $23.5 million. The total exports of the Republic of Croatia account for 6.95%. Total exports of $720 million. All this data is a sign of the growth of this economic branch. Nearly 12,000 employees are employed in this segment, and the largest number of employees are in small companies, so only 15% of companies employ between 20 and 200 workers, and over 200 employees are 6 companies. Based on the sums of the analysis of this sector, the processing and use of wood and furniture production, the objectives and measures to be regulated by this law are set out. Thus, the benefits of a major processing potential are highlighted, a raw material base that is quality, certified and available, the export orientation of finished products, experience and traditions and excellent growth potential. The shortcomings highlight disintegratedness, professional infrastructure, undeveloped quality assurance system, but also low technological level still. The potential is to increase the competitiveness of exports of finished high quality products and design. Limits still present and poor structure, an educational structure treated as consumption, means consumption, not investment, but the lack of brands. This, precisely this bill creates, a legal basis is created to regulate the entire cycle of wood processing and use, but to encourage environmentally acceptable management and exploitation of renewable natural raw materials through the use of bio-mass to obtain energy. Also to introduce a process and product quality management system, but also to improve the control, traffic and quality of these products. Then align statistical classification with those in the European Union, but also create a framework for investment with a view to increasing competitiveness. This legislative proposal means creating conditions for quality institutional organisation to monitor and control the quality of products and production, for exports and imports of semi-certain and finished products to protect customers from non-quality products, but also for easier implementation of European norms and regulations. But also, this legislative proposal should ensure that wood processing remains export-oriented competitive with high-quality products based on strong product development. Then to ensure eco-effectiveness, but also to confirm its place in the economy of the Republic of Croatia, to bring about a new strategy, or a national wood-technological platform based on research and development, why the Centre for Research and Development of furniture and wood products is established, however, there is also a wood market, but there is also a strengthening of wood processing inspection. All of these are preconditions, but all of these are secured and additional funding in the state budget, which guarantees that the vision and objectives of the above-mentioned forward strategy will be fully achieved. And I will therefore support this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12019	Thank you. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12020	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Therefore, the state of the wood processing industry in Croatia is not good. We all know that, and it's been coming to a good conclusion here, and it's all been an old pain and a long story that's been going on for decades. What's wrong with that? We export raw materials, and we import mostly final furniture. Italian furniture is easier than Croatian, which means there is less natural wood in it, but it is more expensive. Why? Because it includes added value, design, technology, etc. And now we'd all like to change that, and that's why we all support this law, all the clubs, all the MPs, and it's all right. The question is, will this be possible with this concept of the law? The intensity's good. I'm not so sure that this is going to be the same. Here's why. What are two important innovations here now? The wood market is therefore founded and the Research Centre is established. But in the stock market, things aren't completely clear. The wood market will apply to those who buy wood from the Croatian forests. And for no one else, because item 7 clearly states that this will not apply to anyone else, but only to those who trade in Croatian forests. And the law also treats biomass, which is usually good. But be careful, you have Croatian waters that take care of these plums, they have to clean it up, it's all biomass. So you have a HEP that needs to be kept under those power lines, so that's the hectares and hectares of it. Now, I don't understand why Croatian forests are, let's say, public enterprises owned by the Republic of Croatia such as HEP or Croatian waters, they don't. It doesn't make sense. It doesn't make sense. What about other forest owners who are not therefore state-owned, owned by the Republic of Croatia? That, you should also figure out whether to include them in the law, whether to oblige them to trade through the stock market or leave them on the free market, because then they won't be so competitive to you, you know, then we'll already create an inequality between them. But by the second reading, I propose to the Proposer, I don't offer solutions, I just point to possible problems and possible traps. The second big trap is the obligation to sell on the stock market, so if there are no interested within eight days, after eight days he can sell it to whoever he wants. Now, be careful at what price? Because if he points out one price on the stock market, and then sells twice as cheap, then we won't stop what's going on, that the logs are going out into export. We're not gonna stop it. So we need to think about it. So the question is, is the law written like this a good instrument? It's not a good tool. I don't think it's a good tool to describe it more precisely. It's this Research Center. Come on. The research center, even though it is, you have a lot of clumsy writing. This should be taught well first, somewhere and translated to Croatian, because look what you are here in the center, which is one of his tasks – organising seminars and consulting of general importance for wood products. Well, I guess producer seminars. Well, the wood products aren't going to the seminar. But there's a lot in the law, and I'm not gonna take it all out now, but it needs to be arranged, so it looks logical. And now, which would now be basic, as far as I understand your idea, the basic purpose of establishing this centre to help, means to help import technology, supply technology, to find designers. It means that these producers allow this final product to have as much added value as possible. If that's the intensity, then that's good. Then that's good. It just doesn't seem to me like it's so good and precise here worked out and written. If that's an idea, that should work out. And then, you don't know if this center will, be careful he owns the Republic of Croatia, whether he will work on a commercial basis or be in some way free of charge for these small producers. If they're going to work commercial, the question is, look at the largest number of them have five employees, so they're small producers. He's got a little sawmill, he's making something. Now if he has to pay all this extra for something else, he won't use the services of that center. So there should be some criteria still to be developed. So there's a lot missing in the law, but there's some things that don't go into the law that break the law. That's, say, Article 5, that's the last paragraph 5. Now you wanted to describe what was going into this law, so you wrote that there was also the production of jewelry, musical instruments, sports equipment, games and toys, medical and dental equipment and accessories and then metal and brushes, and everything from wood. I don't know how hot it is. And you have other bigger things, e.g. You don't have kegs, barrels, tools, shoes, clogs, collages. But he can't get it all into the law, he can't. So when these guys didn't come in, then throw out those brooms, especially in this form of plural, the generative plural where you didn't write brooms, but metal, and then metal can create confusion, because someone reads it as metal, and the metal can't be made of wood again, and so it's so clumsyly written, clumsyly written, and it doesn't belong to the law. What is a serious grudge, perhaps the most serious, is the entry into force, i.e. the price transition, the proposed and final provisions. What are we supposed to do now? A year, a year's time for setting up the stock exchange and a year's time for regulations, and what else, for all of them, a year, and the law goes into effect on the eighth day of publication in "The People's Newspaper". And now he's gonna come into effect when we vote him out on Friday, and he's gone, he's inadmissible completely. It's completely inappropriate, there's no stock market, there's no squares, there's no rules, there's nothing there, is there gonna be one dead law? It's gonna be a dead law. Therefore, you should do it differently in these proposals and final provisions, or when the law will apply or delay entry into force, is it not until this is adopted, because I'm afraid we won't be able to do this, this way we'll be inapplicable to the full law and we'll make more legal confusion than we'd like to settle this area, which is our intensity. Here, quite well-meaningly, these are some of my most important objections to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12021	Thank you, too. One correction, Mrs. Bilic Wardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12022	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I am correcting the incorrect quote of my fellow Stazic, who said that the bill contains a multitude of the directory of metals, which can also be read in the meaning of metal, or metal. My colleague Stazić, you can't read this as metal or metal, because in the Croatian language of the female directory, which has changed gee, and, in the genitals of the plural, they end up in a, not as it used to be, by the 1990s, whether they end up in an i. Therefore, this metal, I commend the ministry which in this segment took care of the purity of the Croatian language. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12023	Thank you. Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12024	Thank you, Mr. President. I would take this opportunity to warn of a problem, whose solution unfortunately cannot be read from such a bill. It does not, unfortunately, fall into processing, or use, but in some way in recovery. What's this about? It is known that the continental part of the Republic of Croatia is particularly rich in wooden architecture. The area of Korduna, Banije, Posavina, Turopolj, Prigorje, and Zagorje, the area where there are thousands of wooden objects, some of which are top artistic and historical values, and are thus protected, such as some houses, churches, chapels, I will mention only the brightest ones like the "Modić", "Bedeković", "The Church of St. Barbara's in Big Mlaka. However, only one part of such facilities is protected individually. A part of such objects as the case, for example with the European village of storks in Cigoč, is protected ambitally. However, there are a number of wooden objects that belong to the cultural and historical heritage of the Croatian people and the Republic of Croatia, which do not have a single level of protection and in action is an incredible devastation of that cultural treasure. It is mainly oak buildings, from the oak oaks, which is known to be a building element, is highly permanent, so in the eco village "Kravaščica" on the trim of Velika Gorica, Popopopopoposkoga and Pisarovina, it is an ethnic village in formation, you can see one barn on which the shapes are 500 years old. One of them still has the crust preserved. We in our area have one of the oldest houses that is not protected at all as a cultural and historical monument, and it comes from a time before the battle of Croats and Turks at Sisak, believe it or not. What's really going on? In these villages there are many nursing households, one-member households, where there are older, smaller people, ignorant people, where organized gangs of pilgrimages with special vehicles, with cranes attached to the crane, with several workers who are able to offer very small money, grandparents, for their barn or perhaps barn, a client. For small money, something that has the highest value and within 2 hours, the saws overstretched the entire object to a mountain of 2 metres long and within 2 or 3 hours it disappears in an unknown direction. There are indications that a large part of that building, we're talking about wood construction, ends within hours on the Rijeka port export gator, and believe it or not, is wood construction, so it's oak, 100, 200 years old, and 300 years old, incredibly esteemed citizens and decorative elements, no less, no more in Egypt, North Italy and some other countries. Artificial villas of rustics are being built in northern Italy, with Croatian building material, which is being subdued under the most ordinary building mass. And she's not. Which devastates our cultural treasure, which is that there are no regulations that would interpret how to allow the recovery of such a building element. I would like to remind you, not long ago at the border of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia was arrested, a speedboat with a tour house of top value was declared. The Department for the Protection of Cultural Monuments notes, dozens and hundreds of disappearances of wooden houses from central Croatia. I was personally at the International Furniture Fair in Zagreb last year, asking about how furniture was made available on the stand of one of the producers found out that it was actually old Turopolian wooden oak houses that turn into rustic, rural, quasise furniture. And apparently among those who buy it are not only lovers, but also many of them who will decide tomorrow that they no longer need some rustic furniture in the cottages, so they'll throw it in the trash, and they'll throw it in the middle of our history. It's a question clearly not covered by this law. It's about documents that aren't newly produced. Please, if you can in any way consider whether this problem can also be covered by this law in order to introduce order into this banditism that destroys the heart of Croatian cultural wooden architecture. I'm sure every single one of you when you see a well-protected and renovated wooden house, an old one with a soul, and each one has its own story, each one has its own historical deposit, is happy about such objects because we have them, because we keep them and we know that those who come as our guests, when they see that heritage, recognize that part of cultural history as one of the unrepeated ones. If that's how we combine forces from the level of the Ministry of Culture and from the level of the county and from the level of local self-government to protect this building heritage but also prevent abuse, prevent the destruction of these houses, prevent their conversion into heating and cheap construction material that will be expensively resold to the Virtualjevics no matter where they are in a foreign country or in ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12025	Thank you. If I had business opportunities, I'd go out for a pay phone, so I'd support this proposal, but here's what I can say, you won't mind. And now I'm asking Secretary of State Sushank to take a brief look around.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12026	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I am pleased that today this bill has awakened such a quality debate, this branch of the economy deserves it. We're going to study all these discussions and suggestions that we heard today, they were really constructive and on a high level. And in the final draft of the law, we're going to respect most of what's possible, what's heard here today. We will also hold several meetings with wood growers operating in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce who are directly interested in this bill in order to consider some of these solutions and really make this law ultimately applicable in practice. I don't want to write a law that, little or no more today, is not applicable in practice. It's a new material that we're presenting for the first time. And I hope that until the second reading he will be far more quality to respect these very good and quality remarks that we have heard here today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12027	Thank you very much. We will continue at 3 p.m. on the agenda. Final draft law on cash compensation to victims of crime. And so in order, all of us. Proposal for a Law on the Processing and Use of Wood and Wood Products is the first reading of P.Z.E. No. 86. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a Law on the Processing and Use of Wood and Wood Products is hereby adopted. Any objections, proposals and opinions raised in the debate will be addressed to the applicant for the final proposal of the law. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. I find that most of the 92 votes are in favour of and six abstentions of this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12029	My colleagues and colleagues will continue with the afternoon session. It's time for point 5. - Final proposal of the Financial Compensation Act to Victims of Crimes, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 107 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the Rules of Procedure, an emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and by the Club of Representatives of the HNS. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Ms Tatjana Vučetic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12030	Dear gentlemen and ladies. On 16 May 2008, the Croatian Parliament ratified the European Convention on Compensation for Victims of Crimes of Violence since 24 November 1983. The national programme of the Republic of Croatia for accession to the European Union for 2008 in Chapter 24 of the negotiations - Justice, freedom and security as a key priority of the Croatian Parliament has set out the adoption of legislation implementing in national legislation the provisions of the Council's directive on compensation for victims of criminal offences. In accordance with the Directive of the Council of Victims of Crimes in the European Union, they should be entitled to a fair and appropriate compensation for damage suffered wherever a criminal offence has been committed in the European Union. In accordance with the Directives, Member States must ensure that when a criminal offence of violence has been committed on purpose in a Member State other than the Member State in which the claimant has his permanent residence, the applicant shall have the right to submit the request to the competent authority in the Member State of residence. The compensation shall be paid by the competent authority of the State on whose territory a criminal offence has been committed. The purpose of the European Convention, as stated in its preamble, is to create a framework for reasons of justice and social solidarity to resolve the situation of victims of acts of violence committed with the intention of suffering serious physical injury or health impairment, as well as dependent members of the victims' families who died from such crimes and the introduction or development of a system for compensation by those victims by a country in whose territory such offences have been committed, in particular if the perpetrator has not been detected or if there is no means. According to the European Convention, the compensation paid by the State should cover at least lost earnings, costs of treatment and hospital costs, funeral costs and the loss of maintenance in the compensation system may also be determined in relation to dependent members of the family. In the Republic of Croatia, victims of criminal offences may make damages to the perpetrators by proposing a criminal proceedings or lawsuit in litigation proceedings. However, the Croatian legislation did not lay down the right to cash compensation provided by the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the proposed law respects the principles of the European Convention and the provisions of the Council Directive governing the right to compensation for victims of acts of violence committed with the intention, assumptions and procedure for the exercise of the right to compensation to the decision-making bodies and to take part in the decision-making procedure on this right and to determine the bodies and procedures applicable in cross-border cases. This law does not cover compensation for damages incurred in the midst of terrorist action because it is governed by a special law, and in accordance with that Convention or traffic offences, because they are also covered by specific regulations. The financial compensation to victims of the crimes of violence committed with intent gives the Republic of Croatia on the principles of social solidarity and justice. Compensation rights authorities are a direct and indirect victim. A direct victim is a person who suffered serious physical injuries or severe health impairment as a result of a crime of violence. The criminal act of violence is considered a criminal offence committed with the intention of using force or injury... the integrity and the crime of putting life and property at risk by a general risk of action or the means of causing death, serious physical injury or serious violation of the health of one or more persons, and is prescribed by criminal law as a serious form of a fundamental criminal offence committed with intent. When mentioned crimes cause the death of a direct victim, the right to compensation has an indirect victim. In the circle of these persons enters a mate, an extramarital friend, child and parent, adoptor, fosterer, stepmom, stepdad, pastor, direct victims, and persons with whom the direct victim lived in the same-sex community. The conditions for a fee under the proposed law are as follows. The fee can only be made if the offences referred to above are committed according to the direct victim in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, on the Croatian ship or Croatian aircraft, no matter where the victim is located and at the time of the consequences of the crime. Further condition is that the criminal offence is recorded or reported to the police or to the State's attorney as a criminal offence. In this respect, it should be pointed out that the authorising officer is entitled to compensation regardless of whether the perpetrator is known and regardless of the initiation of the criminal proceedings. The fee shall be recognised by victims who are nationals of the Republic of Croatia or who are resident in the Republic of Croatia and victims who are nationals of a Member State of the European Union or who are resident in a Member State of the European Union. In accordance with the basic principles of the European Convention, under the proposed law, compensation is recognised for the costs of health care, for lost earnings, for the loss of maintenance and for funeral expenses under the condition of the prescribed law. In view of the fact that it is not a compensation for damages but rather a compensation paid by the State on the principles of social solidarity and justice, the compensation is generally recognised in a limited amount and only if the person exercising the right to compensation does not have the right to compensation from other sources such as health insurance, pension or other grounds. It has been proposed that the body responsible for the decision on the right to compensation be the compensation committee for victims of criminal offences to be appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The composition of that body under the proposed law is as follows. The President of the Board would be the Judge of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, and members of the Committee, Deputy Chief State Attorney of the Republic of Croatia, representative of civil society in the area of protection of victims of criminal offences, representative of the Ministry of Justice and expert in the field of health or social care. Under the proposed law, the Ministry of Justice would carry out administrative professional tasks. In addition, under the proposed law, the Ministry of Justice is responsible for carrying out cross-border transactions. Information of victims on the right to compensation and the body to address for the exercise of that right is an important component of the proposed law under which police, state attorney's office, courts, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior are involved in informing the victims. The law regulates the procedure for the provision of compensation and in accordance with the Council Directive and procedures in domestic and foreign cross-border cases. The domestic cross-border case is the case where the offence is committed in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and the right to compensation under that law is decided by the Committee and the claim for compensation is submitted to the competent authority in another Member State of the European Union in which the victim is resident. A foreign cross-border case is the case where a criminal offence has been committed in another Member State of the European Union and the decision on the right to compensation is made by the competent authority of that State and the request for compensation is submitted by the person residing in the Republic of Croatia. The transfer of the victim's right to the perpetrator of a crime against the Republic of Croatia is also regulated, the return of the victim's unfounded gain, the treatment of situations where the victim has suffered damages from the perpetrator, the financing of compensation to victims of criminal offences and records of applicants and decisions made. The adoption of the proposed law will allow for fair application of compensation to victims of violent intentional crimes, with respect to the standards and principles laid down by the European Convention and in accordance with the Council Directive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12031	Thank you very much. The word is made by representatives of the board. The Justice Committee, chairman of the Committee Ivo Grbic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12032	Dear Vice-Presidents of the Croatian Parliament, respected state secretary, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. At the 8th session held on 18 June 2008, the Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a law on the compensation of victims of criminal offences, with the final proposal of the law, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 12 June 2008, with a proposal to pass the law by an urgent procedure. The Committee discussed the draft law as a parent body, in accordance with Article 73 of the Rules of Procedure. Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament. In the opening explanation of the proposing representatives, she pointed out that this proposal harmonizes our legislation with the acquis of the European Union. The proposal regulates the right to cash compensation to victims of acts of violence committed with intent, regulates assumptions and procedures for the exercise of the right to compensation, regulates decision-making bodies and participates in the decision-making process, prescribes procedures in cross-border cases. In the debate, the Committee members supported the adoption of the law in question and pointed out that the law would allow for fair and appropriate compensation to victims of violence of intentional crime, with respect to the standards and principles of the European Union and would ensure a system of cooperation in order to achieve damages in cross-border cases, to extend the work of the Justice Ministry in part. After the debate was held, the Committee on Justice decided, with 7 votes in favour and 3 abstentions, to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on financial compensation to victims of criminal offences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12033	Thank you very much. The Legislative Committee? The Committee on European Integration? There's no one here. He won't talk. Okay. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP representative club, the word has an agent, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12034	Thank you very much, well-respected vice presidents, representatives and representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. There is no doubt that the public with great expectations expected such a bill and also with great and great hopes. The more we, as the secretary of state said, recently recently passed the Law on Confirmation of the European Convention on the Compensation of Victims of Crimes of Violence, which still dates back to 1983. And there is no doubt that this is something that Croatian law or Croatian justice will apply in the broadest sense of the word, as well as the administration in order to achieve justice, is necessary. It's a very promising title. The law on fines for victims of crime. The law, therefore, and whether the content is such that the victims will indeed receive just and just satisfaction in the matter of cash compensation. The second principle is the principle of social solidarity and justice. Is it fair, I will immediately ask, that someone for the death of this connected person will receive for the lost earnings total and the only amount of 35,000, that all the connected persons, all those behind the murdered will receive 70 thousand kuna? So much, far below what every politician gets for insult and slander. And it was better not to pass a law like this if we don't have the means, because this is a law that requires significant material resources. I think that this Croatia at this time and the Croatian budget can handle it, but in this way I think that we are mocking the victims. We're further victimizing them with a proposal like this that we're going to give them five thousand compensations for funeral expenses. Five thousand kuna for loss of support, as many as there are to share 70 thousand and 35 grand for lost earnings. This is something that in the name of the club here I can say that SDP puts a serious remark and generally now that it is about final reading I will also look at individual solutions that differ from the basic settings guaranteed in criminal law and also in civilians, although it is a specific law, lex specialis, he cannot deny such general principles, he can still elaborate them, not abolish them. According to the assessment of the source of the necessary means of law enforcement, it is already evident that the biller, therefore, for such a minor amount to be realized, will account for only 50% of the victims seeking such damages. And we know what kind of criminal acts this is and who can get it. So it's about victims who have been evicted by the most severe crimes, murders, serious physical injury and all criminal acts of violence. And there is no doubt that these crimes are the ones that violate the basic values of man and community to the greatest extent possible, the basic conditions of living together, and they hit hard and hard the family in which such a sacrifice is found. Therefore, with much more consideration, the Proposer should have gone into the making of this law and provided the means. In this way, let's just say that we have such a law, which doesn't practically solve anything, or a little bit of it and creates additional injustices and anger like that, I think that then or should have waited, first of all, with the determination of these funds, and the second thing is that there is a whole series of provisions that are not just, which are not fair, and are not on the trail of democratic principles that apply in our civilian and in criminal trials. For this reason, here in the SDP, we propose that the Proposer consider whatever the European law is, therefore, the law bearing the P.Z.E. mark. We must have a quality law, so that we can truly make this compensation that victims of crime deserve and that the European Convention on the Compensation of damages that we have voted on 16 May may be implemented in full. This kind of pause, or sacrifice, will often get the naked right, and the question and the way it will be realized and the extent to which it will be possible to achieve it. So let's take it in a row. First of all, the entirely unfounded proposer, so once again, counts on an entirely unrealistic calculation, that only 50% of the victims will seek this compensation for the damage. If we see in the defendants involved, that they are most often persons, often they are persons who have no means or resources that are not on them, so the damage is very difficult, or the victim is hard to come by and make peace with the perpetrators. So, as a rule, his request will be directed towards the state. The most of these are, I repeat, it is not realistic that the promoter estimated that only 50% of the victims would seek such damages. Hence, it is visible by means of what means it is available. It is completely unfounded and not known why, contrary to all possible laws and provisions that address the issue of damages and persons entitled to damages, a circle of persons entitled to damages is narrowed here in this law in Article 5. Thus, from that circle in Article 5(6), the eliminated brothers and sisters living in a shared household with the victim were directed to one another. Similarly, grandchildren have been eliminated, even though the law recognises compensation for damages both criminal and civil, if there was a special emotional relationship between grandparents whether they lived with them or not, which is only apostrophe in paragraph 7. So, it's narrowed down already, from this we see that the law is very restrictive, instead of extending that possibility, it's very restrictive and according to a circle of people who will be able to achieve damages here when it comes to indirect victims, i.e. The people who were left behind. In Article 8, there is something that has never appeared in our bill, so that someone can obtain compensation beyond the finding of guilt in criminal proceedings. The applicant here says in his Article 8(1), that it is sufficient that the criminal offence is recorded and reported to the police. So, what does this bill give rise to? That someone will be able to cheat on the state, very effectively, and those who are truly victims of serious crimes will be settled very restrictively in a small amount, and the question is whether all those who are otherwise called and entitled to compensation will be able or not to make such a request. So, this is something that's invisible, that already the police record itself that a crime has been committed, that is, they're always suspected of a criminal offence, that such a person may demand and receive compensation from the state. I don't know what the proposer was motivated to do, to put something like that in the head and to get it done and to suggest it. Only, it's entirely justified, when the unsub has been unknown for some time. Here we have in the case, maybe here's the most notorious case right now and rightly, journalist Dusan Miljuš, but there should also be the possibility of the state for a while to see if she found the perpetrator. So, one suitable time period of 6 months, if the authorities haven't found the perpetrator, we have the victim, it's quite fair and socially justified that the state reacts and compensates for the damage. But please, where the perpetrator is known in such a period, where a criminal case is being conducted, where we don't know what the outcome will be, because we have from court practice how many times they have appeared as victims, and the procedure has shown something completely different, or that it was a necessary defense, or that the victim was an attacker and vice versa, which initially represented her as a victim. This can only be clarified in criminal proceedings. Therefore, this is something that does not tolerate the principle of constitutionality and as if the state is wasting money, but in any case is not on the trail of the basic principle of guilt and that guilt can only be found in criminal proceedings. Further restrictions and this unprecedented restriction in Article 9, that the right to compensation under this law cannot be achieved by those persons who have suffered damage as a result of criminal offences against traffic security. We're witnessing that people lead, some people drive recklessly, that that's why they're in front of the law enforcement bodies, that they're driving in a drunken state, that they're driving recklessly, that they're dealing with an indirect intention, so they should be covered here, so that's what we used to call consent to the consequences, an indirect imagination, and why the proposer left out these acts here, because these acts are numerous acts in practice. In addition, in the direct opposite of this Article, Article 9(5), where the proposer himself says in Article 5 paragraph 3 of indent 2, where he literally states: a criminal offence puts life and property at risk by a general dangerous action or by a means causing death, serious bodily injury and a serious violation of one or more persons, which is prescribed by criminal act as a serious form of fundamental as a criminal law committed with intent. So, exactly what the Proposer here predicted and detailed, although well described in Article 5(3), paragraph 2, denies in Article 9, therefore, the law is contrary to itself, because it is hard to imagine, this is a poster example of precisely traffic-relatedities, punishable by the law in particular and punishable by a particularly severe penalty. And then suddenly there's the exclusion in Article 9. I have already noted that the fee for the lost earnings in that capitalized, one-time pay of 35,000 kuna if a man was killed in the power supply where the whole family remained that this really was a ridiculously low amount. Similarly, in the event of a loss of restraint, it can only be a one-time sum, at the maximum amount for all the injured, for all the victims, or after the death of all these direct victims, only 70,000 kuna. And the compensation for the funeral expenses, so, five thousand kuna, that's a couple of wreaths. And where everything else is. Circumstances affecting the amount of compensation, here the Proposer has made an effort to consider in Article 14(5) all the circumstances affecting the level of compensation and I think that his efforts have been ineligible and have not been done to the extreme limits, because all of this has been well resolved by the Law on Mandatory Relations, the Law on Compensation and the procedural provisions of the Law on the Procedural Procedure which can then be handled by that body. Thus, in this way, in the pursuit that he was stimulating everything, he was not consistent, so a whole series of provisions that he very significantly dropped. Therefore, here we should only refer to a positive, positive regulation, that, according to the positive legal rule, all the regulations are settled because they are in our legal order and are quite well solved. Why the special body? Why the Supreme Court judges again? We've already got them at the election, we've got them here. Whether they will be able to do their basic work at all, and we will see the Law on the Judicial Procedure extend the revision and give them the audit procedures. I don't think that's a good way, that here was the best way to react to the Code of Criminal Procedure and... order the court, therefore, but that there is no cultural possibility of resolving the atheion procedure, but that it must be dealt with here also on compensation for damages and that compensation will be paid by the State. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was the most efficient and pure and fairest way. And one more thing. It is impossible and absolutely unacceptable that the deadline is only 6 months because the treatment of these severe injuries takes much longer, what are the consequences of this cannot be resolved within a short period of 6 months. This is what anyone who knows, who has participated in such procedures, who has at all an idea of what happens to a severely injured person, that within six months of the curse, therefore, the right to have no more such right, to grant him such a right, or compensation from the state. And it is absolutely unacceptable that the law excludes persons who can exercise the right under the law to be responsible for the damage to terrorist acts. Because terrorist acts are a matter of violence a couple of excellencies. And this is absolutely unacceptable and contrary to the European Convention that you have excluded these crimes. That's unacceptable. And here's the SDP club warning about that. So, depending on how the applicant reacts, the SDP will also decide on the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12035	We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Representative Emil Tomljanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12036	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, I'd like to correct that quote or the allegations to my dear colleague, and there were several when quoting the legal provisions states the term damage compensation, for example, I quote: "...Article 5 of this Law which regulates compensation for damages.". That's an incorrect quote. This law does not regulate compensation for damages, but fines for victims of criminal acts. And in that sense, you need to look at cash damages. Because material, i.e. damage compensation, regardless of whether it is material and immaterial, is achieved according to specific regulations, therefore, the Law on compensation for damages in one or the other sense, so that in general, especially not in terms of grossed cash amounts should not be brought into line with this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12037	Thank you very much for continuing the debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Representative Damir Sesvecan.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12038	Dear Vice-Presidents of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. After the debate we held just over a month ago when we ratified the European Convention on the Compensation of Victims of Crimes, today we are facing the Final Bill on Monetary Compensation to Victims of Crimes. The adoption of this law is fully supported by the Croatian Democratic Community's Club of Representatives. This law aligns the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union and the legal acts of the Council of Europe and is also one of the laws provided for in the plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the acquis for 2008. Chapter 24 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, justice, freedom and security, provides for one priority to comply with the provisions of the Council of the European Union Directive of 29 April 2004 on the compensation of victims of criminal offences based on the said European Convention. Since 24 November 1983, which was ratified by the Croatian Parliament on 16 May this year, it has become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. The Convention assumes that state involvement in compensation for the principles of social solidarity and justice, victims of criminal acts of violence that have suffered physical injury or health impairment as a direct consequence of a deliberate act of violence as well as persons who have been abstained from persons who have died as victims of violence, when the compensation is not fully possible by seeking the perpetrator because it has not been revealed or has no means, by seeking insurance or other sources. The compensation for damages according to the Convention, depending on the specific case, shall include lost earnings, costs of treatment, hospital costs, funeral costs, and the loss of maintenance from dependent family members. The above-mentioned Council Directive for the European Union countries regulates systems and lays down minimum standards for the compensation of victims of criminal acts of violence, as well as mechanisms for cooperation in the provision of compensation in cross-border situations. It is also intended to establish the same protection of citizens of European Union countries in the area of a particular Member State that applies to its citizens. This means that the victim must be entitled to a fair compensation for a criminal offence in the field of the European Union. The Directive also assumes the possibility of addressing the victim of a crime of violence to the competent authority of its country of residence in order to facilitate the exercise of the right in such cross-border cases. Since there has been no right to compensation for victims of violence or an orderly system of cooperation in order to facilitate compensation in cross-border cases, this law, in accordance with the aforementioned Council Directive, is governed by the right to compensation for victims of acts of violence committed with intent in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Consequently, the assumptions and procedure for the exercise of that right shall be determined by the authorities participating in the procedure and shall decide on the right to compensation and the body and procedure applicable in cross-border cases. The criminal act of violence within the meaning of this law shall be considered a criminal offence committed with the intention of applying force or violation of sexual integrity, and the criminal offence of putting life and property at risk at all by a dangerous action or by the means caused by death, serious physical injury or serious violation of the health of one or more persons, prescribed by the Penal Code as a serious form of a fundamental offence committed with intent. Compensation rights authorities are a direct and indirect victim. The direct victim is a person who has suffered serious physical injuries or a serious health disorder as a result of the deliberate crime of violence or a person who is a random participant but has provided assistance to the victim or has tried to prevent the committing of a crime. When committing a crime causes the death of a direct victim, the right to compensation shall have an indirect victim i.e. a spouse, child, parent, adoptor, adoptor, stepdad, stepdad, pastor, direct victim and person with whom the direct victim lived in the same sex community and in special cases grandfather, grandmother and grandson. The right to compensation shall be given to victims of residence or nationals of the Republic of Croatia or of a Member State of the European Union by the fact that the offence is recorded, reported to the police or to the State's attorney, regardless of whether the perpetrator is known and whether a criminal offence has been committed? It is important to stress that the cash compensation to victims of acts of violence committed with intent is not a compensation for damages but a compensation that the state gives on the principles of social solidarity and justice. Therefore, the amount of compensation is limited, so according to the proposal of this law, the victim has the right to compensation for health care costs at the level of the health standard according to mandatory health insurance rules. A fee for lost earnings in a one-time amount of no more than 35,000 kuna. The fee for the loss of maintenance determined by the indirect victim at a one-time rate, according to the actuarial account, shall be the minimum family pension determined on the basis of a 5-year period of insurance and the expected duration of the maintenance period of the indirect victim by the indirect victim, with a limit of compensation of up to 70,000 kuna for all indirect victims who were directly supported by the indirect victim. And compensation for funeral expenses to the person who paid them up to a maximum of 5 thousand kuna. This law introduces the Committee for the Compensation of the Victims of Crimes, which would be appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in its composition, as provided for in Article 18 and in its professional and administrative and technical affairs for the Committee, to the Ministry of Justice. Finally, I would also like to point out the substantial amount of financial resources that will need to be provided in the state budget for the implementation of this law at the time of its entry into force, which is the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. The largest item of the estimated expenditure shall be for the payment of cash compensation to victims who are entitled to compensation. In the light of this law, an analysis and assessment of costs based on the number of criminal offences committed in 2007 was made, I assume, from the number of applicants and the assumed amount of fees made. The result of the assessment is that the total amount of compensation on this basis would amount to a circus of 15 million kuna. In addition, it will be necessary to provide funds for the procurement of information equipment, the development and implementation of a programme solution for the keeping of different records, for the cost of translation and skills, for the education of persons employed in bodies who will be required to provide information to victims of criminal offences, for the payment of fees for the work of members, for members of the Committee on Monetary Compensation to victims of criminal offences. Moreover, in view of the complexity of jobs and the estimated number of requests, more than 10 new employees will need to be employed in order to expand the work of the Ministry of Justice. The following implementing the proposed law in the state budget will also require the provision of additional resources totalling nearly 21 million kuna. Finally, I will say that for these reasons, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the adoption of the Law on Monetary Compensation to Victims of Crimes as well as the proposed emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12039	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS representative Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12040	Dear Madam Vice President, Madam and Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Croatian Peasant Party Representatives' Club will support the proposal for a law on financial compensation to victims of criminal offences. We in HSS welcome the adoption of this law as we welcome the implementation of the principles of the European Convention on the Compensation of Victims of Crimes of Violence in the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. Also the provisions of Council Directive 2004/80. The final proposal for a law on financial compensation to victims of criminal offences is recognised as an important step in which the state shows social solidarity and justice towards victims of acts of violence committed with intent. And that such works in Croatia unfortunately have many speeches and examples that we can find daily in the media or we can see them in our immediate vicinity. It is certain that not only today but also in recent years, the increase in the most serious criminal offences that leaves society underprotected and therefore makes it important to adopt an adequate legislative regulation that will create the right institutional framework in order to resuscitate such a situation. If we recall examples that are still fresh to us, then we become aware that we are surely invited to an emergency action. For example, Srdjan Mladjan, a Sisak monster, is a double murderer in Sisak and Petrinja, bank robber and burglar, and then a cop killer at the service, then a bank robber in Zagreb again, the kidnapper of the entire family almost escaped the most severe conviction and punishment for being a minor. If we follow his genealogy, then we see that in his earliest youth, he began first of all with heavy thefts, then with a little more severe criminal acts, and in 1998 he exploded at the age of 17 when he killed 16-year-old Elizabeth Šubic in Petrinja. The scandalous was his statement in which he stated that he would actually kill anyone if he showed up at that time in front of his eyes. Then, of course, he repeated a black series of murders when he got his way out in Posjevnica, and after that exit he did not return, but took the opportunity to get a gun, rent an apartment in Zagreb, and rob the Sisak bank on Zvonimir Street, and when he realized that the police had tracked him down with 3 bullets, he killed a police officer. He held a family hostage, so that later, of course, he would surrender spectacularly to the press. There are similar cases like the case of retired police officer Vlasimir Kihalic who also killed his wife, her friend, and for the consequence we have not only three dead women but six children who were left without their mothers. Or the case of Relja of Rijeka, who, when he was 19, killed a 14-year-old neighbor. He was sentenced to 14 years in prison and during the 4 years of abstinence, the role models misjudged him, released him on a weekend off, and after two days of freedom and a little glue at an awkward moment ahead of him found the 12-year-old girl he strangled and raped. From these examples that are known in the general public and much debated, it is evident that this very law that we are making today is something that is definitely necessary, which is also necessary from the point of view of the victims of crime, because we have been approached by the Association for the Assistance and Rights of the Families of Crime Victims, this law is very much needed. They believe that this law will improve their position in basic and life-threatening situations, which is the cost of health care, the fees for lost earnings, the fees for the loss of maintenance and compensation for funeral expenses. Therefore, these four life situations caused by the crime of deliberate violence when there was a serious physical injury or serious health and death disorder are important progress in valorising the situation of the victim of crime, but at the same time do not solve complex material damages from perpetrators of criminal offences. Therefore, this law should be treated as a quality complement to other legal acts, in particular the Criminal Procedure Act. Since this is a broader, comprehensive reform of the Criminal Procedure Act, which is yet to take place in the procedure, we hope that further steps will be made with it, and this primarily relates to the quality and speedy settlement of damages from the perpetrators of criminal offences in the property-law claim. For this reason, we at the HSS Club invite the legislators of this law, as well as a whole set of criminal laws, to include the Association for the Assistance and Rights of the Families of Crime Victims. Because members of this association are people who are therefore directly affected by the different situations in life in which they have lost their loved ones and certainly can contribute significantly to the adoption of quality laws, because I think that we should all be the goal of really passing quality laws. Of course, the state budget should plan the funds for the implementation of this law and for the fees relating to indirect victims. If we take into account the information that tells us that 3139 criminal offences were recorded in 2007 for which compensation could be made, then probably based on some assessment in 2008 and 2009 if 50% of applicants appeared, then 1569 people would need to be provided more than 17 million kuna. If we add those new employment needs, then the cost of skill, the very information of the Committee's work, then it is certain that more than 20 million kuna should be provided for the implementation of this law. I would also like to point out that the significant qualities of the bill are that it reacts urgently to the crimes against victims and before the criminal procedure itself is launched, which, in accordance with the achievements of the new time, treats citizens of the Republic of Croatia equally, as well as citizens of other Member States of the European Union. The greatest effect will be on victims of acts of violence that do not have the means for the most difficult times in which violence occurs. In view of the very purpose of the law, we propose the addition of Article 5(7), which regulates who is the indirect victim. The bill states that an indirect victim can be a grandfather, a grandmother and a grandson, provided that one of them is a direct victim. We believe that the term indirect victim referred to in Article 5(7) should be extended to include grandparents, grandparents and grandsons, or custodians, and in situations where they are not a direct victim, and there is no indirect victim referred to in Article 5(6). The club of representatives of the HSS is here with this supplement, which I would like to ask the legislator to adopt, because we came to it together in agreement with the Association for the Assistance and Rights of the Families of Crime Victims. We will support this Law on Monetary Compensation to Victims of Crimes and certainly praise the efforts that appear to regulate this area in an adequate manner and to ease their pain in some way to those who are truly damaged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12041	On behalf of the HDSSB club, representative Vladimir Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12042	Dear Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, this bill should also be understood that it is not the maximum range that the Republic of Croatia can provide for victims at this time, and regarding the cash compensation, but it should be accepted that for the first time this regulation appears, and it appears of course because it is the key priority of the Republic of Croatia chapter 24 – Negotiation for accession to the European Union and Chapter – Justice, freedom and security, and the Republic of Croatia has set this up earlier as a priority, so the adoption of this law implementing the Council Directives of April 2004 on the compensation of victims of criminal offences. Recently, just over a month ago in May, this Croatian Parliament ratified the European Convention on the Compensation of Victims of Crimes, the European Convention, even there from November 1983. What I think is important once again is that this proposed law, of course, when this Croatian Parliament adopts it to enter into force only on the day of Croatia's accession to the European Union. So, I repeat this because in previous discussions, it was a matter of war and damage compensation, possibly in war events, although I agree with those who mentioned traffic for this speaker, who mentioned both terrorism and the HDSSB, that these acts, i.e. fees, were also paid to victims of traffic, but were also to be found in this law. Therefore, all victims of criminal offences should be entitled in the Member States of the European Union to a fair and appropriate compensation, meaning, no matter where the offence is committed, of course, in the territory of the European Union, and then listed which, those persons who have suffered a physical injury, who have the consequence of a health disorder resulting in the death of dependent members of the family of the deceased, but subject to the condition that the criminal offence must be recorded or reported to the police and to the State's attorney as a criminal offence. So, I'm not a lawyer, but according to logic, I can agree that this may be prejudged because the question of determining the actual crime and the final sentence in the criminal proceedings, I think it's a prerequisite for the cash compensation in this case to be paid to victims of criminal offences. I have to admit, it's not exactly the clearest formulation of the intentional, deliberate damage done to me. What about the victims who died on purpose? I don't know, like a gun in a coffee shop and the victim gets killed. Does this law apply to such sacrifices? It's actually a question for the proposer's representative, so those victims who were killed and accidentally, and you're going to let the accidental shot, the shot, the bullet, we've had such cases where even the fatalities occurred, and where the perpetrator remains unknown today. Should such cases and similar cases be covered by this law? Of course, the fees, the fines for the victims of the crimes are small, but I would disagree with the findings that this should be the cause for this law not to be accepted. I think that they are what the Republic of Croatia can provide with its budget at this time, but that they are unequal in the field of the European Union, that is absolutely certain. Therefore, damages are paid in Member States, compensation, cash compensation to be paid more precisely under the Regulation, i.e. the rules on compensation for victims of criminal offences, and these rules should exist in all Member States of the European Union. However, the fact that the cash compensation for, let's say, the same damage done is not the same in Italy, Austria, Croatia, it is not the same nor the standard, it is not the same as gross national income, therefore I think at this point, and I believe that the applicants had in mind both the state budget and the possibilities of the Republic of Croatia, that it is better than nothing, with the fact that I must stress that, of course, 35 thousand kuna, or 70 thousand kuna, and in most cases, if I do not say, it is quite a small amount that cannot compensate for the real damage. And finally, this proposal for a law on fines for victims of criminal offences, I think that following the continuation of this debate there will be further objections or suggestions, I believe that the proposer will respect the proposals that are already and will also be made to the Club of the Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja in the same way will refer to the vote on this law, but here I announce that I believe that you will follow certain remarks, that you will incorporate this bill and that in that case the HDSB club will vote for this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12043	Thank you very much. On behalf of the IDS club, colleague Marin Brkarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12044	Madam Vice President, Madam Secretary of State. Here's a quick word about the Bill of Money Compensation to Victims of Crimes. First of all, I would support the good intentions of the promoter to proceed in the process with a proposal for such a law for the reason that national legislation certainly wishes to be brought into line with the Council of Europe's directives on the compensation of victims of criminal offences. Certainly what has already been said that a month ago we ratified the law of the European Convention on the Compensation of Victims of Crimes of Violence and what is fundamental is to guarantee victims of acts of violence the right to fair and appropriate compensation for damages they have suffered, regardless of where the crime has been committed. This when we talk about a fair and appropriate fee, a cash compensation, is certainly worth saying what has been said so far, that these fees are set in the amount as it stands out for up to 30% of the highest amounts and they are the ones provided for in the law. I would like to know exactly what it is said that it is especially in the Member States of the European Union from our environment, how much these fees are moving because then they would have parallel parameters, because this is how it turns out to be according to a particular case-law that is in the Republic of Croatia. It was also worth knowing what fees are paid in other European Union countries, whether they are linked to economic power or to certain rules. Here is the third thing I would say is that our national legislation does not foresee the possibility of paying the cash compensation that the Republic of Croatia would give victims of the crimes committed with intent in its area. So that's not regulated by our national legislation. And what's also important is in the last article. The law shall enter into force on the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Here we are today not that it is not known the day, but it is not even known the year of accession to the European Union. In view of the latest developments, we would also say the statements made by the presidents of the European states that there is no access to any new member without ratification of the Lisbon Treaty, so it is also an obligation on us to see what we are doing during this period, so we will say from 2008 to the day of entry into force of this law. I believe that this law will also be improved through a debate on the part of the proposal, but it is certain that it would be good to think and what about the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who, during this period, are victims of acts of violence committed with intent, and the perpetrator is unknown or there is no possibility of a regression from him. I think it would be good to think especially in the context, I would say, of the situations in which the Republic of Croatia is located, and it is related to accession. We believed that it would be in 2009, and in 2010, it would now normally depend on ratification of the Lisbon Agreement by other European countries. Here, in that section about the amount of compensation, I would like to get one indication in the context of other European countries and in the context of this height that is determined here by 30% and bound to the most limited amounts. I believe that this is related to the economic power or budgetary power of the Republic of Croatia, since it is also foreseen that the implementation of this law will cost or be in the budget for 20.8 million kuna. In the second part, I think we can support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12045	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the club debate. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is representative Sunday's Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12046	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, the Honorable Ladies and gentlemen of fellow Members of the Croatian Parliament. Well, I will also say for a start that the European Convention on Compensation for Victims of Crimes of Violence has so far been signed by 30 countries, and ratified by 21 states. Croatia signed it in Helsinki in 2005, and the Croatian Parliament confirmed the Law on Confirmation of the European Convention on the Compensation of Victims of Crimes of Violence, recently adopted at a session of 16 May this year, as the State Secretary said at the very beginning. Therefore, it is intended to provide a fair and appropriate compensation to victims of violent intentional crimes in accordance with the standards of the Convention, therefore to persons who have suffered physical injury or have suffered a violation of their health. Supported members of the victims' families who died from the consequences of the crime and the introduction of a compensation system by those victims by the State on whose territory this crime was committed, especially if the perpetrator has not been detected or if there is no means, no matter where the offence is committed within the European Union. The system should ensure that the victim can always address the competent authority in his Member State of the European Union and that it is facilitated to overcome any practical and linguistic difficulties that may be a problem in cross-border cases, provide all the necessary information to submit the application and definitely ensure cooperation between the involved bodies. Compensation rights authorities, we've already heard, are direct and indirect victims. A direct victim is defined as a person who has suffered serious physical injuries or is severely affected by her health as a result of a crime of violence. The direct victim has the same characteristics, however, when she did not participate in the criminal offence, but who accidentally found herself in the event and in the offence tried to prevent the establishment of the crime by helping police to arrest the perpetrator or to assist the other victim of the crime. To cause the death of a direct victim, the right to compensation has an indirect victim. The fee can be made if the offence is committed on the territory of the Republic of Croatia, on a Croatian ship or aircraft no matter where the victim is at the time of the consequences. The supplementary condition is a registered criminal offence or reported to the police or to the State's attorney as a criminal offence regardless of the initiation of the criminal proceedings. Informing victims about the right to compensation and the body that can finally be addressed is a very important component of the law involving the police, the State's Attorney's Office, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior. The fee is recognised for the cost of health care, for the lost profit, for the profit, for the lost maintenance, for the funeral expenses. As a rule, at a limited level, we also heard when the victim does not have the right to compensation from other sources such as health insurance or pension insurance. The law will, of course, take effect on the day of Croatia's entry into the European Union, so the state budget will plan the funds, additional funds for the payment of this fee, as well as funds for new employees who will need to be employed at the Ministry of Justice, of course, to expand the work of this ministry. Costs of translation and skills, education in progress that will actually implement the law. I will support, of course, the adoption of such a law that abolishes, among other things, the obstacles to the free movement of goods, services and people among the Member States of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12047	Thank you, dear colleague Klaric. The word is represented by Vladimir Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12048	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear State Secretarys, colleagues and fellow MPs. A month ago, or last session, we witnessed with whom, whether and when we will receive this text of the law before, on our benches. Namely, at that time when we were confirming the Convention on the Compensation of Victims of the Crime of Violence, it was said for this speaker that it might be this year or not at all this year, so I commend the Ministry so quickly and thus proposed a text that solves one of these issues which, in any case, as I first said, is actually a solution only to those situations where the victim is unknown or when the victim has no means to compensate for damages. So I'm still experiencing it that way, because that's what it said in the explanation, it's only aid in those situations where the victim doesn't have the right to compensation for damages, which you have the right solely because of those two shortcomings, because the victim doesn't have money or because she's unknown. Now, looking at that basis, then the victims of a crime in the European Union should have adequate compensation. This one I'd like to identify with some kind of flat-rate damage. Namely, it is paid in those situations where it can be paid off by the perpetrators, when it cannot be paid off by the perpetrators only with one element, and that is when the work is done on purpose. So when we look at only guilt, I also think that it is, of course, the institute that speaks of guilt in our Croatian sense, which is that only direct intent and indirect intention are involved. Direct intent is a situation where the perpetrator is aware of his work and wants to do it, and it is indirect when he is aware of the works, or that he can commit the work, and he agrees. So, in part, these discussions that were before, too, need to resolve this other situation when it comes to stopping, and stop not being covered by damage compensation. So we have a situation of conscious ignorance, aware that it can commit an act, but it is easy to think that it will not happen or that it will be able to prevent, or unconscious when the perpetrator is not aware of the works, but he could and was obliged to be aware of his personal qualities. So these are two categories, the first one has a right, the second one has no right, so we can't even talk about all the damages for all the cases that would be. Also analogically applying traffic rules that are through insurance and compensation systems in international relations are already resolved then logically, which is why no traffic works are covered, because we also know that we have an institute when unknown and when it is not registered or when an unknown perpetrator is entitled by the insurance company of that country according to those percentages as it is already arranged, charged and later on by them if the perpetrator is found to be refunded. So in my opinion, it's the same institute that we used to have with the means of metal pets, and now we're moving people and protecting them, and in some ways we're allowing them to get compensation in those cases when the unsub doesn't have the means. One chapter of these we have said regulates procedural rules and in these border cases, cross-border cases, the Member State must ensure that when a criminal offence is committed intentionally in a Member State other than the Member State in which the applicant receives compensation and has residence, that is, the applicant has the right to submit a request to the competent authority of the Member State of residence, so our obligation is to regulate one or more of the Member States, to designate one or more of the authorities responsible for deciding on the request. The second chapter regulates the exercise of the right to compensation for damages, and the third chapter only implements the provisions. The basic principles are similar to those of regular damages, only that they differ slightly and when the compensation is not fully available from other sources, the state will contribute to compensate for those who have suffered serious physical injury or health impairment, as a direct consequence of the violence committed with intent and abstention of family members, persons who have died from the consequences of the crime by making up for the damage, even when the perpetrator cannot be prosecuted or punished. So it's about prosecution, not the absence of a crime. In the area of criminality, the perpetrator should pay compensation to the State Party of the Convention and to the citizens of all members of the Council of Europe who have permanent residence in the area of criminal offences committed. The damages depend on a specific case, the loss of earnings and the cost of treatment and hospital costs should be covered, but if regular compensation is obtained, it shall be reduced and returned. It may subsequently be reduced or refused, etc. So, we had another institute in Croatia before, which is that the victims of violence had no right in themselves to compensation for damages, but in the Adhesion procedure, damage claims could also be introduced in criminal proceedings, so if the work was done and if the damage was in that case it could also be done for compensation, if the damage was not done or if the perpetrator did not have, now the state is coming and our area solves this problem in the way provided for by this law. The right to compensation is therefore direct and indirect victims. In the mentioned crimes, the cause of death of a direct victim, members of the family are entitled to compensation, which are defined in the way they are. The proposed body is responsible for deciding on the right to compensation to be the Committee for the Monetary Compensation of Victims of Crime, to be appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So, in that special case, that body will decide. The prerequisite for the exercise of rights is also to report to the police a criminal offence, and as far as the total amount is concerned, it is, in fact, an assessment that has nothing to do with reality and is not intended by law, but in an explanation of how much it could cost us in one situation, and since we know that by entering the European Union, we would not be able to talk about it at this point. So, the law keeps up with all his provisions that are, because I think it will significantly improve and create security for both us abroad and football games and them when they come to us for football games, because I think these are situations where very well this regulation comes in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12049	Thank you very much. I shall inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure have expired time to apply for a ten-minute debate, and now it is up to MP Emil Tomljanović Replica. [[Intruder: Replica.]] I apologize to my colleague Tomljanović. Replica, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12050	Thank you, Vice President. Here, fellow, when you talked about stopping and interpreting here and us, reminding us all of the rally of conscious and unconscious, therefore there is no room here, because as we know the European Convention on the Compensation of Damage talks about criminal acts of violence done with intent, but there is room here to talk about indirect intent. That's what we used to call, indirect. And because of exactly what we have here to argue and here we also have to find crimes, committed for indirect purposes, so generally with intent, then there's more room here to talk about criminal acts, serious traffic offences. Because these crimes are often left in black by families. And these are the most common crimes and will be the most frequent victims, and they now remain out of such compensation. And it is not appropriate to talk about having the right to ask the insurance company, so they have the right to ask the pests, but that is the law's urgency, that is, the basic principle is not to have to make up for the victims if they can't make up for the pests, or the perpetrators, or otherwise. They primarily have to settle under this law, it is a direct provision, the direct principle of the European Convention on the Compensation of Victims of Crime, and the second thing is that no one can accumulate damage, or compensation for a number of grounds, if it has been charged with a criminal offence, then it has the right of the State to regress, or it is obliged to return to the State. But therefore, regardless of the others he can direct his law to, he can turn directly to the state and that's why it's very strange, here I appeal that once again, I believe you'll agree, because as a lawyer you certainly know about a number of tragedies from traffic, when the perpetrators were drunk, killed several people, so in some ways we have to show care for such victims.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12051	Replica response, MP Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12052	Well, intent is intent. So, both direct and indirect... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12053	Hey, buddy, get on with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12054	If it were both direct and indirect intents are covered by the intention, to repeat, but what I want to point out again is that this law only solves those situations in which victims are not otherwise provided, and not to make it a priority, and the state should pay for this first, and then ask for it. No, she jumps into those situations where, on other grounds, we can't get damages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12055	And now, I repeat once again, Agent Emil Tomljanovic, your 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12056	Thank you very much, dear Madam Vice President, distinguished representatives of the Ministry of Justice, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here, I will absolutely in my debate support this bill as the Final Proposal of the Law on the Compensation of Victims of Crimes and allow me to point out that, and some of my predecessors have said, that we find an international legal framework in this regulation in the European Convention that regulates this particular matter, therefore compensation to victims of violence, which, since 1983, the Republic of Croatia signed in 2005, and should, of course, underline that the Croatian Parliament has confirmed at the session since 16 May 2008. The purpose of the Convention itself is indeed to create a prerequisite to address the situation of victims of acts of violence committed with intent for reasons of justice and social solidarity. This cash compensation therefore gives the Republic of Croatia, respecting the principles of solidarity and justice, and the rightholders of this fee are naturally direct and indirect victims, which are in this sense in a special way and defined by law itself. In my opinion, it is very important to highlight the way in which this law defines key concepts in terms of this specific type of compensation. So the first term is, therefore, a crime of violence and, of course, the second term, the concept of a direct or indirect victim. The criminal act of violence or its definition would therefore indicate that the offence was committed with the intention of using force or breach of sexual integrity, as well as the offence of putting life or property at risk by a general dangerous action or by a means of causing death, serious physical injury, infringing the health of one or more persons, and thus prescribed by criminal law as a serious form of a fundamental offence committed with intent. And in that sense, the concept of a direct victim of a person who has just suffered these serious bodily injuries or has been severely impaired by health as a result of this crime, therefore, a criminal act of violence in a exposed sense. Therefore, the law itself does not only regulate the right to cash compensation but it also sets out in detail the assumptions and procedure for the exercise of that right and then the bodies making decisions and participating in the decision-making process on this specific type of compensation. And, of course, both the bodies and the procedure to be applied in individual or not in particular but in the so-called ‘supervisory’ shall be determined. cross-border situations or cross-border cases. It should also be pointed out here that the right to compensation is a victim and that this is precisely prescribed by this law and by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and also by the citizens of the European Union on condition of residence in the Republic of Croatia or in one of the Member States of the European Union. The process itself, it is truly specific and is different from all other similar procedures. It shall be initiated by written request to the Ministry of Justice within 6 months of the date on which the case was committed. It must contain exactly that requirement in a formal sense precisely by the law of the defined elements. However, I am of the opinion that here, given the previous discussions, two things should be highlighted. The first is that the explicit provision of the law, i.e. Article 9 of the Law, cannot ensure that the right to compensation cannot be realised when the damage to the offences against the security of traffic, transport delicacies and, of course, to the transfer and succession of the right to compensation under this law is duly subject to the provisions of the law on mandatory relations. Not to repeat myself, I support this regulation absolutely in this sense. In conclusion, I would say that this law should just be supported because its acceptance of the Republic of Croatia is entering a circle of those countries that share the same or similar values when it comes to applying the principle of social solidarity. So social solidarity towards individuals who are victims of a specific type of criminal offence, namely a specific crime that takes place under specific conditions of criminal acts of violence committed with intent. In accordance with everything I've exposed, I certainly support this regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12057	Thank you very much. No more reporting for individual hearings for 10 minutes. There's one SDP application, final word. On behalf of the Club of Representatives Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12058	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. When I spoke on behalf of the club, and I pointed out that it was a small amount of damage the state would admit to the injured, i.e. I was warned to the victims by previous speaker of my esteemed colleague Emil Tomljanovic who said nicely but my colleague was not involved in the damages. This is about compensation. He's right. He's right, but then the government is wrong, because even though it's long been banned from magic as something harmful, it can't be excavated after we've adopted the European Convention on Compensation of Damage. That compensation is only because we do not want to damage the victim in that full amount and according to European principles, or our legal principles, because by law we have accepted this convention which is then absolutely as positive as our right is now this compensation damage because we do not have the money and we want to figure out that we are now converting it here as magicians and magicians as authorities will not think that we have turned that compensation here into compensation. But then it is not the application of the European Convention on damages. Because the European Convention speaks of compensation for damages. The principles speak of compensation for damages. In the directive's assessment of the situation, the Proposer speaks of compensation for damages, talks about the principles of compensation for damages. And then suddenly, in that law, the damage went away, came out in compensation, and you're lucky you got that, too. And it is true what counterpart Tomljanovic said is the difference between damage and compensation. The fee does not follow the principles which I have spoken in good faith that the European Convention has been applied and that we, on the basis of this European Convention, have passed such a law by law. What the European Convention says, that is, the Law on the Confirmation of this Convention, which we have recently adopted. Please nicely it stands for you here by, the proposer himself writes in, on page 5. What principles should be applied in the law? The principle of compensation for damages, depending on the specific case, should cover at least the loss of earnings for damages and not for your mercy of compensation, but compensation for damages, compensation for damages. For example, if a 30-year-old man was killed, we know how to calculate the damage to the loss of a life under the assumption of how long he will live and the average salary he will make. And that's not gentlemen dear 35,000 kuna. For as much as the worker is with us, there is no job or paid so weakly where the young man was killed. So contrary to principles, against principles. Also for lost earnings or maintenance. So all those who are covered by the circle and many of them have been eliminated, I have already said that before, so I don't want to repeat myself. But the same right of restraint has therefore not by grace, but it is well known how the maintenance of the one who has received so far is calculated. It can be paid once in a capitalised amount, but then it's a huge amount. It needs to be calculated, not enough to reach 70,000 kuna. The Directive, i.e. the principles in this Convention, in the European Convention, or the law on our confirmation of this Convention, states that the above amount can be marked. But we know how to get to the top. This would be acceptable if it were a fee, but this is not the Law on Compensation that we once made to correct how many such injustices on the seized property during the Yugoslav communist rule or the law that resuscitated the former provision suspended from the Law on Mandatory Relations, a law committed, or against terrorist acts and acts committed by our military and regular forces. There's the fee speech. There's no fair, fair compensation here. But that's not the case here. Then you're not. Then you here forgive the expression you planted a coward's egg here, because this is not about compensation for damages but compensation. If it were a fee, then we might agree. We could politically speak give more and so, and you would have the right to determine the fee. And here you are under the company, i.e. under the European Convention to respect it, and we have passed the law here turned the compensation of the damages into the law of monetary compensation, not the compensation of the damages and thus also played the European Convention and the law of our confirmation of the Convention. Then there's no room to mark P.Z.E. We can say that we do not yet have or discuss it. So, seriously, we need to think about these things, and this might just be mature for some previous debate, so here's the promoter, let's give him some time and maybe a shorter one to fix this. He can be fixed very quickly. This is a small law. If he has a good will and if you really want to have an effective law, this is what he will find us when we come to the European Union. And why would they be trying to figure out if we had something? Let's be honest, first of all, with ourselves and an open forehead. to the European Union. [[Intruder Antunović: Time of colleague.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12059	Thank you very much. Would the motionor's representative like to take the floor? State Secretary Tatjana Vučetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12060	Thank you, Madam Vice President. First of all, I would like to thank all the participants for today's debate and to point out once again that this is a major step in the Republic of Croatia, because this law is absolutely the first time in the Croatian legislation that gives the victim the opportunity to get a cash compensation when he is an unknown perpetrator or is a poor asset, that is, and then. The MPs rightly pointed out that this is not about compensation for damages in that classical sense, because the state in this case is not a pest. The State shall make up for cash compensation, and the injured party shall continue to have the absolute right to pursue real property material and immaterial damage in the criminal proceedings or indirectly in the litigation procedure. So, once again, I would like to point out that the adoption of this Monetary Compensation Act has been adopted on the basis of the principle of solidarity and justice and that it is therefore not about compensation for damages in the classical legal sense of that word. I would also like to perhaps look back at a few things that have been said about the amounts set out in the law. When a proposal was made on this law, then a full comparative analysis was made of all the members of the European Union who have such a law and I must say that, let's say, the Republic of Slovenia has lower amounts set, and most other countries here as well as the Republic of Croatia in this proposal. So we're not under some standard that's been established. And of course, it should always be pointed out that all this depends on the standard of each country. Why criminal charges as an element sufficient to determine whether anyone has the right or not to charge this cash. We have also been guided by a comparative display in all Member States of the European Union that have that law. So all other countries except Bulgaria have a criminal application as a sufficient starting element for acceptance, to apply for criminal application. Why not criminal acts from the road safety domain? Because the convention does not foresee them as an option, and also because they are regulated by other legal regulations. And finally, I would like to say that we will take care of all the amendments as well as the proposals until the bill is passed and put them in, and discuss them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12061	Thank you. Correction of the alleged, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12062	What Mrs. Secretary of State said about criminal charges in some other countries is simply not true. It's another institute that we often identify with criminal charges. We have every person who can file criminal charges. This is important in different ways, and you can imagine the situation that two people who got into a fight have serious physical injuries. No doubt one is a victim, and one is an attacker. And who's going to determine that? And they'll both report to the police that the victims and you will, and the state, can you imagine what crazy situation you're putting the state in afterwards, that they'll have to pay one person and the other, because they both reported a crime and they're seriously injured.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12063	I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12064	The final draft law on cash compensation to victims of crime is an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 107. The debate is closed, the amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law, the SDP Representatives' Club and the HNS Representatives' Club. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to show up on the amendments. Here you go. Ms Tatjana Vučetic, State Secretary. Here you go. First amendment of the Legislative Committee to Article 5
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12065	The amendment is accepted. It's about nomotechnical text editing.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12066	Okay, thank you. It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 2. in Article 50.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12067	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12068	Thank you. Article 50 is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12069	The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12070	It's unacceptable. Explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12071	Because up to 1. 1. In 2009, it is not possible to provide all the necessary conditions for the application of this Act. In addition to the need to adopt sublegal regulations for the application of this law, material and humane conditions should be created for their application, which requires additional resources in the state budget. For example, for the application of the law, it is necessary to establish an organisational unit at the Ministry of Justice, hire officials, establish records that require the purchase of information equipment. It is also necessary, in accordance with Article 23 of this Act, to draw up leaflets and booklets containing information on the right to compensation in the Croatian and English languages. It is also necessary to provide additional resources for the application of this law in the national budget for the payment of cash fees prescribed by this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12072	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, here you go, Mr. Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12073	Your Honor, Mr. President, I can't believe we heard what we just heard. In fact, that months are not enough to ensure the preconditions for the application of this law and it is actually about the preconditions that can be solved within the ministry, to carry out a public tender, in the meantime to move several computers that are already on the lager or on the write-off anyway, and in the state budget for the next year to which we will decide only at the end of the year to provide compensation for damages. I recall here it is that the well-being of this law is felt by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia as soon as possible. This way I can't get the impression that the proposer of many laws that bear the P.Z.E. mark. In fact, it brings thoughts to others, not to its own citizens, and it is simply one wrong approach that is clearly proof that these laws are being brought under pressure, not with the awareness that these things should first be regulated because of our own interests and breakthroughs and the gain of our own citizens. I demand that this amendment be voted upon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12074	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. And we are moving on to the amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, to the amendment to Article 5. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12075	The amendment is not accepted. Indirect victims referred to in paragraph 6 of Article 5 shall be entitled to compensation where the offence prescribed in this Article causes the death of a direct victim. The fee granted by this law to indirect victims who were directly sustained by the victim was due to the loss of legal restraint. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In view of the addition of paragraph 6, the reference to brothers and sisters as indirect victims of the amendments is not accepted because it is not a circle of relatives who, according to the applicable regulations, have the right to legal restraint and is therefore assessed not to justify this degree of relation to the right to pay for the loss of abstention or to this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12076	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12077	You're saying grandkids don't need to get into these, this circle of people who need to get paid as indirect victims. And on the other hand, grandparents are obliged to support grandchildren because there is no alimony fund. So what's the justice here? So irresponsible parents nothing to anyone. Grandma and Grandpa with a small pension must pay for the support of their grandsons which has never been so far, but instead of the alimony fund, grandparents have become an alimony fund. And on the other hand, when Grandma and Grandpa get hurt by grandkids here, even though there was an emotional bond between them, and the law recognizes it in those general provisions on compensation for damages, but here a whole series of people that others, other legal or positive regulations, recognize them here, you rule them out. And the figure is that you're giving compensation to victims of criminal acts where you've completely baselessly narrowed down the circle of persons who, by other provisions, have the right to do so. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12078	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. In the meantime, I apologize. The chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system shall inform the Committee meeting, which was scheduled at 13:30, shall be postponed until the end of the vote and will then continue. And now we're going on, I'm sorry. Amendment 2 to Article 8?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12079	The amendment is not accepted. This amendment is not accepted because the basic principle of the proposed law is to provide effective and rapid financial assistance to victims of criminal offences who have suffered serious physical injuries or health damage immediately after committing a criminal offence. Whether or not the perpetrator of a criminal offence is known or not, regardless of the existence of a criminal proceedings. In order to achieve this principle, it has been determined that in order to exercise the right to compensation, it is not necessary to wait for the legal end of the criminal proceedings to be brought to an end, but to enable the victim of a criminal offence to exercise the right to compensation, provided that the criminal offence is recorded or reported to the police or to the State's attorney as a criminal offence. Such a commitment is also based on the Council of Europe's recommendation of two and six, eight from 2006 on the assistance of victims of criminal offences. Waiting for a final verdict would undo the effect of this law, which aims to help the victim financially when it needs it as soon as possible after the crime is committed.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12080	Thank you. On behalf of the board, on behalf of the SDP Club, please elect Mrs. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12081	Indeed a strange explanation, and even this decision, which you call upon, is recommended. The legal arrangement is quite different with regard to any criminal charges. Well, it's not the same situation with a legislative solution, a positive legislative solution with us. It's quite possible to find a situation where the perpetrator of a crime will come to the police and report that someone attacked him. You will then give him damage to this, to your provisions, to the explicit provisions of Article 8 which we are responding to from the SDP Club by modifying to wait with effective criminal persecution or with a court ruling, so that the judge will then commit himself to resolving the compensation of the damage independently and of this aid he gives, to the modest, state. We will therefore come into absurd situations, and we are also expanding the possibility of corruption. Someone's gonna win, somebody's not gonna win. You have cases of mutual accounting. Both will report that a criminal offence has been committed on his behalf. Both may have injuries. And it may undoubtedly be that, not perhaps, but doubtless, there is only one attacker and the other is the victim. How will you judge that? A policeman will judge something that the council has been discussing for years which in one of the other proceedings. Great! Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12082	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 3 of the same club to Article 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12083	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment is not accepted. According to the provisions of the European Convention, the States are obliged to make a contribution in order to compensate for damages where that compensation is not fully available from another source. The damages caused by the crime against traffic security are covered by insurance and, therefore, this law stipulates that damage to the consequences of these offences cannot be entitled to compensation prescribed by this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12084	On behalf of Mrs. Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12085	You're saying these damages are covered by insurance. And when does such damage and charge come? I'm sure after some gruesome litigation. How does the state tolerate not responding immediately? But it even leaves to insurance and the question is whether or not it will settle the party with the insurance company and whether it will produce some kind of long-term litigation. So it doesn't make sense. You're pulling out a self-serving explanation. There's one explanation for this. This is a second explanation. But that's a minor problem. Another problem is that the government will not admit that the person driving in an alcoholic state, who drives an unsuspecting and recklessly killing person, and that these are the basic acts of violence. You have directly mentioned these acts here in Article 5, so it is contrary to Article 9 because you are saying here that the right to compensation is both for persons or for acts of violence to be considered as being caused by the threat of general security. And that's the elemental part. Traffic works with severe consequences just fall into that kind of work. So, here's an explanation to the public that the drunk-driving person kills two, three children, that they're persons, that they're victims who don't deserve the attention of this country. Explain that to them. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12086	Please, who's in favor of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Again, the chairman of the Committee on Local Self-Government, Mr Zvonimir Mršić, also postpones the start of the vote session and will later. We are going back to Amendment 4. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12087	The amendment to Article 14 shall not be accepted. Circumstances affecting the exercise of the right to compensation for victims of criminal offences and its height are not prescribed by other applicable regulations of the Republic of Croatia. Namely, this law is a special regulation governing the right to compensation for victims of criminal acts. Therefore, Article 14 provides for circumstances affecting the exercise of the right to compensation and its height is necessary in this law, and these circumstances are also prescribed in accordance with the provision of Article 8. European Conventions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12088	Thank you. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12089	You say this law prescribes compensation for victims, but then you cheat the public and all of us here, because this law is passed under the European Convention on the Compensation of damages, which means that the victim must be fully compensated, and that's just some kind of charity given to such persons. Therefore, this law is not an execution and obligation of the European Convention on the Compensation of Victims of Crimes, but rather a fee, which is why you are giving yourself and the right to create your own conditions on what this fee will depend on. If you did, and if you had really passed the law that you have committed, and thus you figure out to submit a proposal based on the European Convention on Compensation for damages, then there is now this compensation that will result in some kind of financial compensation, then it is understandable, that is to say, in accordance with such a one-off logic that you will then create the conditions and circumstances that you will determine beyond the general provisions of the Law on Mandatory Relations, in addition to the Law on Procedural Procedure, in addition to the Law on Compensation of damages. What will be the circumstances that will be decisive about the height and the grounds for the damages, i.e. for the compensation that the State is giving. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12090	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 5 to Article 25
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12091	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. That the request may be submitted no later than three years from the date on which the offence was committed. Therefore, the victims who are on treatment and cannot submit a request within 6 months of the initiation of the offence will not lose the right to apply, as they can submit it within three months of the date of termination of the circumstances for which they were unable to submit a request with the objective time limit for the application being 3 years from the initiation of the offence.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12092	Thank you. Mrs. Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12093	I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12094	This amendment has been withdrawn. I Amendment 6 to Article 48.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12095	It's unacceptable. Victims of terrorist acts have the right to compensation under a special regulation, the Law on Responsibility for the damage caused by terrorist acts and public demonstrations, and these laws provide for the type of damages that are compensated and the amount of compensation in a different way than prescribed by this law. According to this special regulation, victims of terrorist acts have the right to compensation for the damage caused by death, physical injury, or health damage both property and non-equity damage caused by these consequences. The obligation of compensation shall exist irrespective of whether the pest has been found to have been prosecuted or found guilty. So the damages have the right to compensation when the perpetrator is unknown. It is precisely because the compensation for the victims of terrorist acts is governed by a special regulation in a different way than the proposed law by the provisions of Article 48 that are necessary to resolve the relationship between these two rules and to avoid double compensation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12096	Thank you. Mrs. Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12097	This is not an explanation on this article and it is the contrary, your argument is the opposite of the whole meaning of this law that you propose and that you defend here before, in the name of the Government in front of the Croatian Parliament, because this law is also passed despite the fact that each of these victims is entitled to compensation under the already existing regulations. But the state, the government, we all want to figure out here as those who want to damage immediately, regardless of the current norms. And you now say the perpetrators of criminal acts, terrorist acts, that such victims, their victims, are entitled to compensation under special provisions. That's right. This was made possible in 2002 after that long-term suspension when victims whose houses flew into the air had no right to speak to anyone, but even to be anonymous, so as not to know who the owner was, that he would not go with the house. Therefore, this argument is absolutely unacceptable for one reason, and also for another, but from some political message that we are sending, because the crimes that have been committed by terrorist acts are the most deadly acts, are the most dangerous crimes. And unfortunately, the most numerous are such acts where the perpetrators remained unknown. However, I don't know if anyone has ever been discovered or if anyone will ever be discovered. Therefore, if this law had to be passed, it was necessary to adopt it precisely in order to satisfy such an establishment, such justice as those of these persons. Once again, I repeat my argument that there is a special law. That's right. But there is also a special law on compensation for all these other victims. So that's not an explanation. So there's no explanation at all, but I don't know why you refuse. It is one political message, however, why is it rejected to victims like this if we know who are the most frequently damaged by such monstrous crimes, the most deadly crimes you refuse to give them any compensation. It's a message. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12098	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on the final draft law on financial compensation for victims of criminal offences. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This law was adopted with 80 votes for and 13 abstentions along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12099	We are going to the next item - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Procedural Procedure, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 108 The Proposer is Government. Amendments to the end of the debate carried out by the Committees on Law, European Integration and Justice. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Drazen Bosnjak will further explain the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12100	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. In front of you is a draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Judicial Procedure with the Final Proposal of the Law. A very important law which is in the process and I think should be seen in the context of this next point, it is the Law on a new network of courts in the Republic of Croatia. We intend to make a better network of courts, but our intention is actually to speed up litigation and give our courts those tools so that the litigation can run faster, in order to be more effective, so that our citizens will ultimately exercise their rights and interests in this process as soon as possible. It is not disputed that, in 2003, we changed the Law on a litigation procedure and these were quality and good amendments to the laws that gave our courts certain possibilities to speed up the procedure, one part of the institute, we must acknowledge that it was not used and not used in the right way, and therefore we belong to these changes with a desire and intent to make the procedure as fast and efficient as possible. The fact is, we all know the situation. Our proceedings continue for a long time, procedures for us at the county courts in appeal proceedings also take a long time, very often these first-degree decisions are lifted, they return to the retrial, and very often without the right direction how these first-degree courts are to act, very often they are unclear and, of course, it is a few times, two or three times and finally a citizen and achieves his right to protect his legal interest, but it all comes too late, and then it actually turns out to be at the end and unfair. What do we change and what do we propose to change in these amendments to the Law on Prosecution? We propose, in the process itself, we propose both in the first degree and in the second degree, but also in the audit process. I can say as a very significant amendment we propose to actually open the Supreme Court door a little wider than it is so far and, as we know, the Constitutional Court has taken over the role of the Supreme Court as we have rather closed the door to the Supreme Court with certain provisions and norms of the Law on Prosecution. We want to make it much more open to these changes. With regard to the first-degree procedure, the possibilities of courts for sanctioning persons who are unconsciously used by procedural powers and thus obstruct the conduct of the proceedings. It is clear to us that very often even warlocks don't make their findings the way the court has set deadlines, now for the first time we are introducing a provision that even an expert can be punished if he doesn't make a finding within the deadline. It is clear to us that the court and the current regulation can sanction the obstruction of the proceedings, however, when it imposes penalties, it is very often and difficult to collect. The amendments determine that these penalties are charged under the IRS rules, we transfer that jurisdiction to the IRS, and that way this thing should work more effectively. We also change the actual jurisdiction that disputes between legal persons, real persons and craftsmen, disputes between craftsmen and disputes between individual traders, so that it is now subject to the jurisdiction of the trade court. Taking into account the overload of our municipal courts, this change will certainly result in their discharge, and thus faster and more effective treatment. It is also easier for the first-degree courts to deal with cases that are not sufficient for the court to deal with the shortcomings observed so far. The current regulator says the court will call on the applicant and will in some way teach him how to do it and it is very often done in fact that lawyers are invited to educate lawyers on how a certain submission should be made. According to the proposed amendments, the court will specify exactly how it is and how it is necessary to actually change that submission and there will be no need, so that someone is invited into the court space and that we will save some extra time. It is also predicted that the first-degree courts would no longer be obliged to carry out evidence under official duty in labour disputes, which was the rest of the inquisition principle in the procedural arrangement, which will also lead to an acceleration of the procedure. There is a prosecutor, there is a prosecutor, each has its own legal interest in this dispute, each one is educated and each one has to take care of all those procedural options and propose the actual evidence necessary to establish the facts on which to exercise his or her right or interest. It is very important to introduce new procedural opportunities concerning the Institute of Delivery. We all know that delivery is one painful point of our entire system. Someone will not receive a submission, someone will not accept the court's decision, then it's written, I don't know he didn't want to receive such things, it's very often a problem with the addresses themselves, and that's why we're really introducing very important changes here, and in a way that we're most likely to bind ourselves to valid registers, in the case of legal persons and natural persons who carry out certain commercial activities, we're bound to register, so where the legal person's seat, for the natural person, the particular craftsman is also the place where he's registered to carry out that activity, that address is delivered twice, if it isn't carried out successfully, then it will be published in writing on the court's advertising plate and is considered to be delivered. In addition, for the natural persons themselves, such as those who do not carry out their activities, they will be tried twice at the address of their residence or residence in the Register of the Ministry of Interior, if they fail to deliver, republished on the court’s advertising plate and is deemed to have been delivered. We believe that we all have to have a certain administrative culture and take care of our rights and interests, and therefore we introduce a new institute, which is, in fact, that if the party goes somewhere, I don't know, so there won't be a number of months for the Ministry of the Interior to provide information to which address to be sent, can determine a person, empower who will receive such letters instead, and that is something which is one news and we believe that people should use it because, of course, we are all interested in having delivery neatly come and to take care of all of their rights and obligations. The new procedural arrangement also envisioned significant news in special litigation procedures relating to small-value disputes. There are many such disputes, they burden our judicial system, and this time after a long time we move that limit and that amount, so far slow small values have been considered slow to 5 thousand kuna, and now that limit is 10 thousand kuna. The rules of a more efficient procedure apply here, we introduce a mandatory prior debate, a prior procedure. Here in this previous procedure, both the defendant and the defendant would present all the evidence, all the proposals they have in the process and could highlight all those procedural and material-legal objections, and then go to the main hearing and that is possible on the same day and the process ends. We feel that this would also speed up a whole series of procedures that are quite burdensome to our courts. One also says the processal equalisation of the Republic of Croatia and other legal entities. Today we have the situation next, if someone intends to sue the Republic of Croatia then is obliged to apply, means first for a peaceful settlement of the dispute, and otherwise there was no process. Now here we are introducing a small and stricter regime, so for the Republic of Croatia itself if the Republic of Croatia intends to sue someone, then it is also obliged to offer first the possibility of a peaceful settlement of the dispute. We are also installing this institution and allowing the peace to be carried out throughout the process, of course we will also look at the aspect of the Law on Peace and the Law on Arbitration, now one of the already large periods of time since these institutes have been functioning in the Republic of Croatia and we can assess in what sense changes are needed, but these are already some topics that will come. As regards the second-degree procedure, significant changes have also been made and, taking into account the fact that a large number of what I said in the previous part of the hearing, a large number of eases in the abolition of first-degree judgments, the proposed amendments to the second-degree courts have been provided with the possibility that regardless of the reasons for the first-degree ruling, whose regularity and legality are being examined, they may take their decision on the basis of the credentials and indirect evidence contained in the litigation file. So we have normised and mandatory minimum content of the abolished second-degree verdict, we have very often the situation of abolishing the first-degree verdict, it is stated only to the lower court that it is obliged to determine the relevant factual situation, it is not said which, or any evidence to be carried out, is now very precise that if the ruling is lifted then it is necessary to specify very precise and clear which actions it is required to carry out, but the second-degree court is obliged to also determine the material legal view of the case itself. We're also opening up that possibility that was before, but it hasn't been used, and that's opening a second-degree debate. That was to be understood before 2003, however, it was an institute that was simply not used. Why are we bringing him back? We return it because we believe that it is possible to carry out these discussions at the second stage, that certain evidence before the first-degree court, their re-implementation, is possible to better look at the matter that it is possible to resolve the dispute without the case being returned to a retrial in order for one witness to be heard again before the court of second-degree. And what we're going to insist on, and that's also through framework standards and through supervision, is that this institute is actually being implemented in the future, not that it's a dead letter on paper. That's what's important to us, because now that we look at these changes that are, de facto we've given tools to second-degree courts that don't need to return an enormous number of times to the court's retrial in the first degree unless the first degree has been carried out by some of the actions requested by the prosecutor or the defendant, then it makes sense to actually return to the retrial for the very existence of that principle of direct evidence. We believe that these measures will significantly improve the work of second-degree courts and that in this way we will actually solve those abolitions two or three times and return to re-trial. We think this is a good solution. As regards the audit procedure, very important changes have also been made. We all know the Constitutional Court's decision and we are also proposing certain amendments. In addition to the restrictions so far on the right to submit an audit, the value of a 100 thousand kuna dispute and a certain type of dispute, a dispute initiated by the worker against the decision to terminate the labour contract, the right to submit an audit is now foreseen for parties to disputes initiated by the worker against the decision in the existence of a labour contract, i.e. the termination of the labour contract. So in work disputes, we have expanded the spectrum of reasons when audits can be submitted. Also for parties in disputes in which a second-degree ruling was reached by the basis of this debate before the second stage, regardless of these conditions, the possibility of revision is always open, which I think is quite correct. The last normation mentioned above is also significant for the reason why it provides the same possibility to examine the regularity and legality of such decisions. It was abandoned by the Institute of Extraordinary Audit according to the provision of a second-degree court, because de facto when the second-degree court made a decision very rarely used the institute in practice that it itself opened up the possibility of a revision against such a decision. We also open opportunities for the uniform application of law in the Republic of Croatia, so the revision can always be submitted if there is a different solution to the second-degree court in the territory of the Republic of Croatia or if there is no case-law in a given case, so the Supreme Court has not yet taken any position then it is possible to submit the review again in order to determine the practice, break through and to make such guidelines. Finally, the harmonisation of our Law on the litigation procedure with the acquis of the countries of the European Union where these provisions of applicable regulations have been incorporated, some of which we have already installed in the amendments to the Implementing Law and others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12101	Please, nice. The Legislative Committee? The Committee on European Integration? The Justice Committee? The chairman of the board, Mr. Representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12102	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues. At the 8th session held on 18 June 2008, the Committee for the Justice of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Procedural Procedure, with the Final Proposal for a Law submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 12 June 2008, with a proposal to pass the law by an urgent procedure. The Committee discussed the draft law as a parent body pursuant to Article 73 of the Law. Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament. In its opening statement, the applicant’s representative pointed out that this bill allows courts to sanction persons who are unwittingly used by procedural powers, the possibility of collecting fines through the tax administration’s competent authorities is prescribed, the jurisdiction of commercial courts is changed, the precise regulation of the delivery and the way of delivery of letters is regulated, the possibility of settlement is introduced throughout the procedure, and the relevant newspaper of the audit procedure was then made, in a way that secondary courts, regardless of the reasons for the first-degree judgment of their decision, can be made on the basis of the disputed structure contained in the litigation file, significant newspapers of the audit procedure are introduced and allow only for those qualified persons to be audited. In the debate, members of the board unanimously supported the adoption of the law. The opinion is that the proposed amendments to the grounds for submitting the audit of authorised persons for the initiation of the audit, enabling audits for the proceedings in litigation of possessions and proceedings in small-value disputes, newspapers on delivery, newspapers on the collection of fines, will certainly speed up litigation procedures, raise efficiency in the resolution of civil litigation. The proposer's representative was positively shown in respect of compliance with the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia of 24 January 2007 on the abolition of certain provisions of the Law on litigation. After the debate was held, the Committee on Justice unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament that it adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Procedural Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12103	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. SDP advocates' club, Ms. Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12104	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. As we know, as noted here in the assessment of the situation, the last amendment, i.e. the adoption of the Law on Procedural Procedure, was during that period, with the adoption of the Constitution, the most important act of our normative nature. And as the proposer here assesses and evaluates it properly, there is no doubt that this 2003 Law on the litigation of proceedings has contributed significantly to the acceleration of proceedings. Such a quality law and has such effects, I mean that exactly its quality is reflected in the fact that its effects of course and given the nature of the law could not be recorded immediately, but after some time they undoubtedly showed a acceleration of procedures and so it is. That's unequivocal. However, why is this 2003 Law of Prosecution not applicable? Why aren't the judges in a lawsuit? Because if they have such effective tools anywhere, then they're currently in litigation, or when they're being tried in a civilian. And that is precisely why it is obvious that, in the whole and in full of all of its provisions of 2003, from this intensity to remove all those obstacles and penalties all those who obstruct the process are well-absorbed and the witches here. It obviously wasn't like that after all. It is true that something has gone wrong, precisely in order to speed up the proceedings, has occurred in one part and inequity of the case law, and in a good way, both from the aspirations and wishes of the Supreme Court, to the fullest extent possible, some insignificant cases. However, if, in more insignificant cases, a different solution is, then it makes a significant contribution to the legal uncertainty of citizens, and then the citizen thinks if this is how it is possible to solve a variety of and different things, which would then be that in some significant disputes. So they think the citizens would then be, and these differences are even more drastic. So what, speaking of the SDP club, I want to particularly apostrophe, would be good to ask for application, which are norms and which makes some norms that don't change here seem to be good, and there's no way they can be more precise because they're perfectly clear. If the 2003 Law states that the verdict must be written within that time limit, 8 or 15 days and sent to the parties within the same period, if it does not, and if nothing happens to anyone, then it is something that is worrying. Then it's no one's fault, it's the judge. It is not the party's fault now, although it is often the parties' fault and all the participants in the proceedings. So, it would be good to finally, here I think that as it was in 2003, that this law has received absolute support from everyone and that it will certainly happen with this change, because these are quality changes, because these are changes really from one general tendency to remove all obstructions in the case and that these procedures will be quick and effective and that the judge is the master of the process, regardless of what is not abolished, that the aphids are at the head of the acousticity, but that everyone knows their role and takes over their role, therefore, and that it is a consequence of a truly one quality, first of all I would say quality and working groups that have been working more or less in the same composition for many years and knows the painful points in the very process that is not respected. At least not in his fullness. When the review in the law was limited since 2003, so it went first and foremost to the Supreme Court's initiative to dissipate the Supreme Court. Interestingly, at the Supreme Court, we want to relieve him, his basic tasks, but some of the bylaws we hire judges, so now we've hired him here and in this damages charge. So, out of the trial, out of the classics of their business. I think it's a shame. I think it's a shame for the Supreme Court's Supreme Judges to deal with some controversial things that even administrations should do. I mean, I don't know how the Supreme Court agrees with such a situation, but they don't mind, I think it'd be good for them to start removing those benefits they're taking for it, and then they'd get judges in the Supreme Court back to the Supreme Court where they belong. And I think that with this kind of expansion of the revision, not only is the limitation, or audit possibilities, of the audit bases, so even though the amount of 100 thousand kuna remains, so in other cases, too, it is now taxing that these are cases where it is really necessary to respond to the final judgment of the audit, and there is also the case where in the same or similar situations, when courts have decided differently. And therefore, for the sake of that legal certainty, it is necessary to trigger a Supreme Court reaction. However, what I particularly want to mention here is that this should be corrected, and that is what the trade unions warn about, when it comes to the Institute of Audit, that it is very imprecise relations, or terms that talk about work disputes, or working relationships, so these are archaic expressions that have long been run over by the Labour Act. In fact, working relationship is no longer a status issue, but a contractual relationship, therefore, in that sense, that modernization of expression should also be followed by this Law on a litigation procedure, or this amendment to the Law on a litigation procedure, in order to get it, is this exactly the opportunity to react? I can see that these provisions are also being amended to speed up the procedure in those cases where the State of Prosecutor or the State is being sued. It's a bit of a concern that the state is re-versing a litigator and is again, in most cases, being sued and burdening our judiciary. The same state that complains to the judiciary that it is slowly inefficient, and it is burdening it the most, and then re-invests funds to make the judiciary effective, whether in teamwork, or in material means. So it's an absurd situation and this absurd situation, first of all, that one litigious spirit of litigation in the country needs to be contained. If not kindly, then by force and by means of a commitment by those representing the state under the law, they are obliged to recognise the obvious claims. The question is often asked, how can it be marked what is obvious? Anyone who is involved in the process, especially those who conduct the procedure or are professionals, knows very well what the obvious actions are. So, with one collective agreement, if the fee is not paid, the government has signed, the state has committed itself, says I won't pay you, come on, we haven't agreed, let's sue. And then before our judgment thousands and tens of thousands of such cases are brought together. And then the courts have to deal with the relations that the state needs to deal with, not the cases why they're reserved. And those very, very, very people I'd say in a kind of way they're part of the state, until the last instance, the state thinks they're saving, and the state has caused huge costs. For example, in the 1990s, some claim in the amount of 30, 40 thousand with those legally tightened interest rates of 18% and a long-term trial that was caused by the defendant, very carefully investing legal drugs, which is the country's most marginal, is the most negligent among those who need immediate recognition, until I say that some other interests of water protection, forest, concession, but the second time. So, where an obvious claim is to be acknowledged, where there is an apparent litigation, someone should eventually call someone to account for why it is or why it seems, because we still think that a failure, or someone will ask me why I didn't put the legal remedy there. I think someone should ask someone why he invested the legal medicine, and he shouldn't, because that caused significant costs without any chance of doing so. But apparently, those people who decide to do so should be encouraged in that sense. I can't, because they just learned, say a few sentences, and then I'm calm. No one can ask me in this case. Now it should turn the situation and the thing different, but then first of all here for a start, this in this norm, it seems to me that Article 186 was old to 186, and that is the change, just the moment of the new law, or Article 19 that is changing again and should therefore, react in a way that the state is obliged to recognise the obvious laws of appeal. This would in some ways stimulate those who represent the state in the March representation of those, where it really protects the state fiscus, so the budget, but also saves where the state is guilty and where it is better to recognise the claim. On the other hand, in this way, the state would show that it is for justice and for justice, if it were not for a common litigator. So it shows citizens how to behave. To pay what is due, but also to insist in your right that it is not due when someone is wrongly accused of any claim. That's one thing. And that message may be the most important, most important, of all the money to be saved. The state thus shows that the debtors are, in the end, acting as such and sending a message of civil acceptance, but also of business morality, as should be done. Unfortunately, this is not the case, so it is hard to expect that the Law on Prosecution in the sense of this will experience changes, but here it would be very necessary. Likewise, the justice system would be unloaded. It's a huge number of objects. Here's just enough to look at the latest statistics for the past year, so you'd see how the number of cases in which the state was sued has risen rapidly again. Here, therefore, supporting all these changes, which relate to the punishment of other participants, including the experts in the process, so also to removing some indetermination and perhaps a little strengthening of those norms which are precisely and because they did not have the will of those who should have applied them, to apply them. In this way, with these changes with these fifty articles of amendments under the Law on the Procedural Procedure, the SDP Club will support these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12105	Thank you. Club of HDZ Representatives Mr. Vladimir Ivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12106	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honored State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. This is another effort by which the Ministry is trying to speed up the proceedings in the litigation process and thus achieve the principle, the contrary principle of the unwanted, which is that the dispute of justice is the greatest injustice. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support these efforts, i.e. these changes leading to the improvement of the existing Penal Code, a pardon for the litigation process. The Law on litigation regulates the rules of procedure on the basis of which the Court discusses and decides in disputes on the fundamental rights and obligations of persons and citizens, in personal and family relations, and in working, commercial, property and other civil proceedings, unless other law provides that such disputes shall be governed by the rules of which other proceedings. The latest amendments and amendments to the law were in terms of improving the process of which some measures and most of them have worked and the rest of them are trying to achieve these changes and in some ways shorten the process. The delay in providing legal protection immobilizes the invested capital which can harm even those who, after lengthy and expensive litigation, actually get litigation and lose what the prosecutions led to. This is why these extraordinary efforts deserve support in any case. Taking into account the observed shortcomings in the litigation of the proposed amendments, certain procedures have been carried out both first-degree and second-degree proceedings and proceedings before the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. As regards the first-degree court proceedings, the proposed paper is in important respects to sanctioning non-response persons but also most refer to improving the delivery institute because we know that delivery is just one of the problems in the debate itself that often delay hearings, which do not allow evidence to be carried out in due time and, in some ways, one of the important ones and, in particular, if they are being served by litigators in the sense of avoiding their obligations in this case, they are particularly able to act on the very course of the proceedings and in some way, to drag it into an indefinite manner. Therefore, first-degree courts have made it easier to deal with cases which are not sufficient for the court to act. Thus, the proposed amendments are no longer required to call upon the court and to instruct the applicant of such a plea to the correction but will give it an exact order, or to refer it to it in what way this statement should be, and its failure and failure to take legal action would, in fact, mean its withdrawal, and thus we can say that the disorderly delivery is very common in practice and constitutes a reason for the postponement of the hearing and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law is substantially changed by the positive legal regulation of the delivery method and by introducing new delivery methods in writing. This level of delivery for natural persons carrying out their registered activity. If the delivery is carried out in connection with that activity, then craftsmen if they are engaged in their activities in crafts with the delivery of legal persons who are at this point quite effective. Given that these results are satisfactory for legal persons, it is assumed that both natural persons will be effective in their activities. Those natural persons will also be delivered by placing a letter on the court’s notice if it is unsuccessfully tried at the address of the registered seat of such a person. In addition, the delivery regime for legal persons is being tightened since courts are no longer obliged to repeat the irregular delivery at the address of the registered legal person's seat, but will be delivered by placing letters on the advertising board. And for ordinary natural persons, the regime is similar to that of those applied to the residence which has been reported and may be requested to intervene and deliver through data that can be obtained from the Ministry of the Interior. This, through the Ministry of the Interior, has been a lot of problems in practice so far because at the beginning of the register they did not want to deliver to the litigator parties. It is now possible to use their registry for the delivery of exact addresses, residence, residence, and thus applies. It is also common to deliver to natural persons at this time through legal persons in whom they are employed. The authorised authority of an interested person in... to obtain address information is also one of the options to open these amendments to the law and obtain legitimacy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The next novelty refers to the legal arrangement of cases of unlawful refusal to receive a court letter and consists of the provision of a court obligation which is now, in addition to the obligation to place a court letter in the prescribed place, such a letter is also required to be placed on the court’s notice plate. The paper is of course in small-value disputes by raising the amount to 10 thousand kuna as a limit... to which the simplified procedure is applied in, and is introduced... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] the procedure in these disputes so that practically the entire factual and evidence procedure can be carried out before the debate begins and thus the effectiveness of the later court decision is improved. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, it would be quite good, although it is explicitly not prescribed in the law to enable other procedures and to in some way force, after the lawsuit was brought to the present litigation procedure, to provide a mandatory response to the suit. Otherwise, there's a conviction for deafness. However, it is now common for judges to decide that when they get a response to the suit only at the hearing, they give an additional deadline for the defendant to plead in response to the suit, and then it would turn out to be a waste of time again. It would be advisable for something similar to that provided for in this procedure to be forced, at least for the operation, to respond to the action, before the hearing takes place physically. In other news, it could also be said that it is important to stay calm throughout the process. For the first time in a procedural arrangement, the situation of representation in the event of temporary suspension or termination of a lawyer's office shall be normised. The second step of the procedure introduces new developments that can be made and based on the debated building in the litigation file, so it does not have to be as usual now, although not entirely necessary in all situations, but it does not have to be returned to the first-degree procedure but can be decided on the basis of the debate structure and thus speed up the procedure. With regard to the revision, i.e. the extraordinary legal remedy to be applied, there is, in fact, a double, double situation of one side. As a result of the Constitutional Court's decision, it is reintroduced and wider than was envisaged by previous amendments, but on the other hand, the other day we had in the Court Act the abolition of the provisions on the Council's sittings for the unification of case-law, thus allowing for the introduction of audits in several types of proceedings to bring court practice into line in the case-law itself. Furthermore, an extraordinary audit has been abandoned according to the provision of a second-degree court. They would say that the recommendation of the previous law, i.e. the norm, made it possible for the court to second-degreely assess in which cases and that it would be allowed to do so, in which it would not be allowed to audit, and in some ways the Institute did not revive in practice and is now, in terms of this increase in the reasons for the revision, changing or abolishing. For the first time, a review has also been introduced for litigation proceedings and small-value disputes proceedings. In order to protect the integrity of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, this draft bill provides that only qualified persons, lawyers, parties and other authorised assistants, may still submit the audit only if they have passed the judicial examination. The proposed newspaper should therefore improve efficiency and increase the speed in the trial itself and the Croatian Democratic Community club supports such changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12107	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12108	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable state secretary, respected colleagues and colleagues. The latest amendments and additions to the 2003 Law on Criminal Procedure speeded up the litigation process. However, given the day-to-day progress of society mainly in a variety of practices as well as the legal basis for the acquisition of goods, the number of litigation proceedings conducted in court is increasing. In this regard, and due to a faster dispute resolution, i.e. a more effective litigation procedure based on previous experience and the observed shortcomings, changes are proposed in the first-degree and second-degree proceedings as well as in the procedure before the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. Likewise, the proposed amendments and amendments to the law will allow for the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with a series of European Union regulations regulating this legal area. In the first instance of a court procedure, the proposed paper in the collection of fines through the tax administration's competent authority, in relation to so far forced charges under the rules of the enforcement procedure, provides wider possibilities for courts to sanction persons who are unwittingly using procedural powers and thus slows the conduct of court proceedings. Changes in the actual jurisdiction of disputes between legal persons, legal persons and craftsmen, disputes between craftsmen, in such a way that the jurisdiction of the Commercial Court is established for the same purpose will reduce the burden of municipal courts and improve faster and more efficient treatment. A significant newspaper refers to the Institute of Delivery. Namely, a more precise delivery method is regulated and new written delivery methods are introduced. Thus, the delivery of letters to natural persons carrying out the registered activity if the same unsuccessfully tries to address the registered office of delivery will be carried out by placing a letter on the court’s notice board or in the case of disorderly delivery to the registered seat of the legal person. There is no need to repeat delivery, as it is possible to deliver letters on the court’s advertising board. The proposed amendments and additions to the first-degree procedure shall equalise the procedural Republic of Croatia and other legal entities in the proceedings before bringing an action in such a way that the competent state attorney is obliged to address the request for a peaceful settlement of the dispute to the person he intends to sue before the case is brought before the Court itself. Also, while noting the advantage of a peaceful solution to the dispute in the legal denials of Central European countries, the possibility of calming down is introduced throughout the process. In the second step of the procedure, significant amendments are proposed in the decision-making of the court in such a way that, regardless of the reasons for the first-degree judgment whose legality and regularity examine their decision can be taken by means of the debated structure contained in the litigation file. As second-degree decisions are abolished, the obligation to indicate the necessary actions and precise reasons to be taken by the Court of First Instance in the re-trial shall be determined. It shall also be possible to hold a hearing before a second-degree court by conducting a main debate if the second-degree court considers this necessary for the purpose of legal determination of the facts. The review as an extraordinary legal remedy is experiencing significant newspapers. It is proposed to exclude an extraordinary review by a second-degree court in view of the various decisions of the county courts so far on the same legal issues without the possibility of unambiguous court practice. Furthermore, the possibility of reviewing the proceedings in litigation of possessions and disputes of less value is introduced and it is limited to the submission of the audit to qualified persons for that purpose alone. For this reason, I believe that the proposed amendments will make it possible to reduce the number of court files and ensure uniform court practice. I therefore support the adoption of a final draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on a litigation procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12109	Thank you. Mr. Representative Damir Sesvečan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12110	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected state secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We therefore have before us the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Procedural Procedure, which is proposed by an urgent procedure. By proposed law, among other things, Croatian legislation is in line with European Union regulations. First of all, I'm going to say that by law on litigation, I'm going to quote Article 1. "they regulate the rules of procedure on the basis of which the court discusses and decides in disputes on the fundamental rights and obligations of man and citizen on personal relations between citizens and in working, commercial, property and other civil and legal disputes, if the law does not provide for some of these disputes to be settled by the court under the rules of which other proceedings. These amendments and additions to the Law on a litigation procedure, as already said, largely continue to be made to the latest changes and additions of 2003 that have introduced a series of improvements, which have contributed to the acceleration of the litigation process. However, the application of the law identifies areas that significantly contribute to unnecessary delays, resulting in an increase in the number of cases of litigation proceedings, which reduces trust in the rule of law and the rule of law. The proposed amendments allow courts to more extensively sanction persons who obstruct the conduct of court proceedings through abuse and unconscious proceedings. According to the current provisions of the law, forced payment of fines imposed as well as fines has been arranged according to the rules of the executive procedure, while these amendments propose payment through the tax administration according to the rules on forced tax collection. That solution has already been adopted in the rules governing the forced payment of court fees. If, within the prescribed time limit, the fines imposed were not able to be charged in this way, provisions or rules of criminal law would apply in the follow-up procedure. A significant change that will certainly contribute to the discharging of municipal courts is contained in the proposed change in the actual jurisdiction and this is for disputes between legal persons, legal persons and craftsmen, disputes between craftsmen and disputes between individuals from the jurisdiction of the municipalities in the jurisdiction of the commercial court. It is also a good solution proposed by this law, and it is related to the delivery of letters where, with the delivery of letters, the mail of a court official, the competent administrative authority, the public notary or the direct court is made available by electronic means, making communication significantly easier and faster. This is a significant step because the information of the judicial system is just an important factor in the success of judicial reform. One of the most significant procedural arrangements in this bill is the one relating to the Institute of Delivery. Often delaying the hearing or the main debate is the consequences of the inability to deliver neatly, which has affected the length of court proceedings. Therefore, the introduction of new delivery methods is envisaged, i.e. more precise regulation. It is proposed to equalise the delivery of letters to natural persons carrying out certain activities with the delivery of legal persons so that, if the delivery could not be made to the address of the registered seat, it will be considered to be carried out by placing on the advertising board. Also, the courts will no longer be obliged to repeat the disorderly delivery to the address of the registered seat of the legal person, but will also be delivered by putting the letter on the court’s notice board. The delivery regime is also tightened for natural persons, primarily citizens have to report their movements in the country, in accordance with the rules on residence and residence of citizens, so in case of disorderly delivery, it would try to make an address for the registered residence or residence of those persons according to data from the MUP records, twice within 15 days, and after that, by putting the letters on the advertising board. In addition to a series of improvements introduced by amendments and additions to this law that will contribute to the reduction of the number of cases and the acceleration of court proceedings and the effectiveness of courts in litigation cases, cases of unlawful refusal to accept court letters, newspapers relating to disputes of small value with a view to reducing the burden of courts in these proceedings, the reintroduction of hearing institutes before a second-degree court, a series of compliance with European Council and Parliament regulations. Important newspapers in this law I especially wish to highlight are those relating to the organisation of the Institute of Audit. Amendments to the 2003 law greatly reduced the possibility of a second-degree review. As a result, the Constitutional Court repealed the provisions restricting the right to submit an audit, i.e. the provisions of Article 382(1), (2) and (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. This law thus introduces, in addition to the limitation of the right to carry out a review of the case with a value of more than 100 thousand kuna and a certain type of dispute, the right to submit a regular review and to parties to disputes initiated by the worker against a decision on the existence of a labour contract or the termination of a working relationship and for parties to disputes in which a second-degree ruling was made by a court which amended the first-degree ruling according to the state of the file when it found that the relevant facts between the parties were not disputed, i.e. that they could be established by the basis of the documents and indirectly carried out in the file independently of the facts referred to in the first-degree judgment and regardless of material infringements of the proceedings in connection with the deficiencies which the first-degree judgment may be held. As regards the extraordinary revision, it is proposed that, independently of restrictions, the revision can always be brought against a second-degree ruling if the dispute decision depends on the resolution of a material and legal or procedural issue relevant for ensuring uniform application of the laws and equality of citizens. Thus, for the first time, a review of the proceedings in litigation for possessions and for proceedings in small-value disputes has been introduced, the proposed solutions will certainly ensure uniform court practice, which through the unique changes in the law and the role of the Supreme Court as the highest court. For these reasons, I will support the amendments and additions to this Law on a litigation procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12111	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary Drazen Bošnjaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12112	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I want to thank everyone who participated in the debate. As far as I can see, we've received one support, and it's really very important changes, changes that really should contribute to speeding up the litigation process, one narrowing down the possibility of abuse of procedural powers. We are really setting the second stage procedure in a much better way than we have so far, and with these new provisions, amended review provisions we are opening the doors of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia wide. Of course we would have to do that and to liven it up, we will have to have our Supreme Court and both county and materially and in every other segment to strengthen in order to actually implement this law and to bring it back to life, not as we have so far some institutes that have been normised, but have not applied. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12113	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12114	Ninth, the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Procedural Procedure is an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 108. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to manifest himself. State Secretary Mr. Bosnjakovic. Please first, and the Legislative Committee, first amendment to Articles 11, 32 and 33.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12115	Mr President, the Proposer accepts all amendments to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12116	Thank you, so one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten. Everyone becomes an integral part of the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12117	I thank the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12118	I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Procedural Procedure. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This law was passed by most votes, 93 votes in favour and one abstention. The Legislative Committee proposes the adoption of the next conclusion to the Parliament. The professional service of the Croatian Parliament is hereby authorised to carry out a revision of the text of this law prior to its publication in "The People's Newspaper". I am voting on this committee's conclusion. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This conclusion was accepted by the majority of votes, 90 votes for and one abstention. I also inform that the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament was called for 2 July at 13:30 will be held after the vote in the Chamber of Stjepan Radic. So is the Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12119	We're going to the next point. - Final proposal of the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 30 The Proposer is Government. Emergency procedure. Amendments to the end of the debate. implemented by committees on legislation, European integration and the judiciary. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and by the Club of Representatives of the HNS. State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Drazen Bosnjak will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12120	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have before us the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts. As you know and as we have already said, the network of municipal courts in the Republic of Croatia is quite dense and is actually set in such a way that it no longer meets the needs of the Republic of Croatia today. We have a whole series of small courts where we have one or three judges of the municipal court, we have courts where we have one or five municipal judges and simply this burden of trial is not equally distributed. On the other hand, in such smaller courts or inflows of cases, we are no longer as it would have been for all these judges to meet some standard and framework criteria, and yet on the other hand we have several courts that are extremely burdened and where indeed judges are looming under a great burden and a great number of cases. What is our intention with this Law on Areas and Courts? Our intention is to connect the meaning of these smaller courts, of which they get larger courts, more relevant, means units within which we would implement the fundamental rule, which is the specialization of judges. We live in the 21st century, and today it's more impossible to imagine that a judge is now judging a case of trespassing, 15 minutes after he goes to trial a criminal, an hour after that some kind of property lawsuit. This is more impossible today, and this is exactly the basis for us to come to our judges specializing, to have specialists in criminal, civil, family, and that is one of the essential preconditions that we have a better trial. Such specialists will be much faster to conduct procedures, so they won't need 10 or 12 hearings to carry out the procedure, that will be enough four possible. The judgments they will make will certainly be more quality and will be much less likely to be abolished and reinstated by the high court. Mr. Vice President, if I may appeal to your debate when it was the first reading, you said on behalf of the club that I isolate this law in a way that it is not supported and some other measures alone will not lead to any significant improvements. I fully agree with you, and that's why I'm calling on this point before, so we've proposed amendments to the Law on Procedural Procedure, and if we look at it in one whole, we're actually building a normative system and we're building institutions, one framework where tomorrow's judiciary is definitely going to be more successful and efficient. On the one hand, we will have these tools to prevent the abuse of proceedings, and on the other hand we will have courts that will have judges who will have much more quality in these cases to work. Compared to the first reading of what many of you are, because each of us comes from a city and each of us in that city and the environment sees what happens, whether his court is abolished or not. I'm going to say here in the second one, it's not really a real termination. Because you know if you cut something out, then there wouldn't be any more of those judges, or those officers, or those jobs. The right time is a merger. Indeed, it is a real term of merger within new courts, and everywhere where the court no longer has a seat in formal law, wherever there is a living justification we leave land books, means a grantshop and the ability to communicate citizens with the reception office, of course and the days of judgment as long as there is a need for it we will actually reorganise within ourselves, within the system itself. That's the point. It is not important for us to send citizens 100 kilometers longer than it is for us to actually get more effective procedures and judges specialist who, if needed, is not the problem from a Gospić to go to the island and conduct one procedure. The criteria are very clear, and that's what we said last time. We're joining courts that have less than five judges, actually more accurate inflows of cases for less than five judges and that's in some kind of space than 50 kilometers. That's what we're holding on to. We traveled all over Croatia, we went somewhere better, we went somewhere worse, but about all the reasons that the mayors pointed out to us, that there are 100 and 200 years, that of course life has changed, we have to respect, that's a fundamental fact. The network of courts in Austria is no longer equal to that network that was in Austria, so neither can we. The centers are different, the needs are different, and I don't think we could accept such reasons. In relation to the first reading, we only propose an amendment, because there are a whole series of similar courts actually. They're similar distances so that we've been thinking somewhere it can be connected to this, and here's the only change that we're proposing, which is what we've been norming here, so the Orahovica court wouldn't be able to connect it to the Court of Nasice, but we'd put it together with the court in Slatina, where we'd get that one court that's going through, so we'll analyze and see. Here, Mr. President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12121	Thank you. The committee's rapporteurs. The Legislative Committee? The Committee on European Integration? The Committee on Justice, chairman of the Committee, Mr. Representative Ivo Grbic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12122	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable state secretary, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. At the 8th session held on 18 June 2008, the Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the Final Proposal for a Law on the Areas and Seats of the Courts, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 12 June 2008. The Committee discussed the draft law as a parent body pursuant to Article 73 of the Law. Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament. In the opening statement of the proposal's representative, she explained briefly the reasons for the adoption of laws and questions to be regulated by law, the differences compared to the draft law. In particular, it noted that the Ministry of Justice did not carry out an analysis of the existing state of the merger courts, stressing that statistical data for each court identified the existence of reasons for the merger according to the established criteria of merger. Prior to sending the law to the parliamentary procedure, the Proposer held the necessary consultations with the presidents of the joint courts, representatives of the counties, cities and municipalities, and received the necessary support in the project. The text of the final proposal of the Law on the Areas and Seats of Courts in the debate contained the following views, proposals and opinions. The opinion of the committee members is that the applicant has not sufficiently respected the nomotechnical interventions presented in the first reading. The parish structure has been disrupted in some cases, for example in... The seat and area of the municipal court in Pag also includes the City of Novalja and Novalja is not in Zadar County. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The county facility is damaged in chapter 7. Bjelovar-Bilogian County. In addition to the criteria for the merger of courts, the Department of Justice should also respect certain specificities of the court, the tradition of the judiciary, the number of inhabitants, the distance from the seat of the court to which the court is attached. The debate also sets out some examples in which specificities should be adequately evaluated. In the town of Pakrac, the victim of the Homeland War, the premises of the Municipal Court, created technical conditions of work, there is a tradition of the judiciary, so in Chapter 7. Bjelovar-Bilogor County from the area and jurisdiction of the Municipal Court in Daruvar should be deleted... Pakrac, in chapter 11, adds the Municipal Court to Pakrac for the Lipik and Pakrac cities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also necessary to evaluate the distance of the court from the seat of the court to which the court is attached, the geographical distribution of the county, worthy of the court's distance from the final proposal, is not a clear need for the Istrian County to have 6 municipal courts proposed in a geographically smaller area than the Licko-Senj County, for which only one municipal court is proposed. It'd be in head eight. Primorje-Gorski County delete Senj, and in the head Ličko-Senj County add the Municipal Court in Senj. On the importance of tradition in certain areas as an example, we can also take the City of Prelog where the court works for over 150 years, so it would be in chapter 20. The Međimurje County should have left the Municipal Court in Prelog. The Committee suggests to the proposal's representative that the proposals and objections are made to the final text of the law in order to improve the proposed solutions to the adoption of the law. After the debate, the Committee on Justice unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament that it adopt the Law on the Areas and Seats of the Courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12123	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. HDZ Representatives' Club, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12124	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the Final Proposal of the Law on the Areas and Seats of the Courts, and the introduction should certainly highlight the following. Today in the Republic of Croatia there are 115 municipal courts of which... , i.e. it works 108. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] With them as first-degree courts in the Republic of Croatia, there are 21 county courts and 13 commercial courts. The very network of municipal courts, but also their number, proved to be ineffective, but on the other hand, by an overpriced system. The need to join the process of streamlining the network of courts is also based on the fact or is based on the fact that the implementation of a whole series of measures and strategies of judicial reform is currently dependent on the future network of courts in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, rationalising the network of courts is a necessary process in which citizens need to be given faster, more efficient and more quality justice. In particular, the realization of the network of courts means the merger, I repeat the merger, not the abolition of courts of the same kind in which the duties of judges performs a smaller number of five, i.e. courts within a distance of up to or from 50 kilometers. The merger itself will immediately have three very important effects. The first is to improve the management of court cases. Second, improving the organisation and conditions of the work of judges, court officials and deputies. And the third, very important, is the possibility of conducting specialization and perfecting judges. However, the quality to be achieved by this legislative proposal is indeed a matter of responsibility, efficiency and better organisation of work, settlement of cases within a shorter period or short period of time, reasonable deadlines, and thus ensuring that citizens have a better quality, faster and more accessible justice. We must not forget that with the number of pending cases, which are reduced year by year, the fundamental problem of the Croatian judiciary is the long-term conduct of certain court proceedings. The trial, therefore, itself, takes years, the longevity of these proceedings conflicts with the concepts of a rational judicial system, but also the concept of fundamental justice and justice, legal certainty and the rule of law. They rightly create, therefore, the perception of corrupt zones or the possibility of corrupt behavior. Furthermore, of course this is about the necessity of implementation and constitutional provisions developed in Article 29 that everyone has the right to establish an independent and impartial court by law, in a fair and reasonable manner, to decide on his rights and obligations or on suspicion or charges of criminal activity. It is obvious that in the implementation of the Croatian judiciary reform, this is becoming imperative, but a mirror that will mirror the success of judicial reform. This law, in that sense, needs to become one of the backbones, precisely these processes and therefore absolutely needs to be supported. Finally, it is important to note that, in parallel with the adoption of this law, work space, technically equipped courts, determine the establishment of permanent services outside the court's seat, in order to bring the new structure to life as soon as possible. Accordingly, the proposed legal decisions of the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives Club support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12125	Thank you. IDS representative club, Mr. Representative Marin Brkarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12126	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here I will say briefly, the bill that is before us, certainly the IDS Club will support, if the amendment we have given is accepted, means the Proposal for a Law on Areas and Seats of Courts in the first reading. We see that this is not embedded in the text, but surely in the amendment we will seek our vote and what I want to particularly underline here is that this law is also based on the Justice Reform Strategy, and one of the measures in the Justice Strategy is certainly the rationalisation of the network of courts that stands in the explanation should be implemented in a way that does not endanger citizens' right to access to court, that the proposed network of courts is economically rational and that citizens are given faster and more effective justice. Here I think that this proposal threatens citizens with access to court, because if they could do so in their own city or in their municipality by now, they will have to travel 50 km, regardless of whether they are talking about tiring or joining courts, that the proposed network is economically rational, the principle of economicism, I don't know if it's all respected because citizens, all citizens, will have to travel to some new place with the court that it connects with, and that citizens will be provided with faster and more effective and quality justice. Rather, he would have preferred what the State Secretary said, that the effectiveness of the judiciary would be achieved by amending and supplementing the Law on Parley Procedure, Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure or Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Executive Procedure, means creating a more efficient, more quality legislative regulation that will allow faster and better quality dispute resolution or accumulated case files that are presently in courts. For this reason, I think that some of the courts that are meant to join together here have their own historical basis and their economic justice and their demographic significance, part of them are located in mountainous and mountainous areas, in areas of special state concern. I will point out that the Court of Justice in Buzet, although it is one of the most effective courts in the Republic of Croatia, even though it is a court located in the border area with the Republic of Slovenia, in the area of mountain and mountainous areas of special state care, since it is also the municipality of Lanisce for the area for which the Municipal Court is responsible in Buzet, means there are many reasons. I can also say that it is also a pilot project of the Ministry of Justice where it is united with the Criminal Court and I can also say that the Supreme Court's solution is part of the case being courted in Buzet. Here I personally believe that it would be worth considering the proposed rationalisation, the proposed suspension, that is, the merger of courts as indicated here in the context of amendments submitted by the IDS Club, but also by the other representatives in this Assembly, to see the most questionable organisation of the networks of courts in the Republic of Croatia, that they are primarily for the benefit of our citizens, and certainly also to promote the efficiency of the work of the judicial authority. I think this proposal has been fully fulfilled. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12127	Thank you. SDP representative club, Mr. Representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12128	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the honourable representatives of the government of the proposings, colleagues and fellow MPs. It should be acknowledged that reforms of state systems are always painful and expensive. As a rule, they are intruding into acquired rights and changing the current conditions, destroying some tradition, and that is not what citizens like or make it difficult for them to exercise their rights, which also citizens do not like, but the state government must take measures in the name of the future of the social one and which are not popular and must be responsible for the future of the state and society. But in order to do this and to do it responsibly and propose for any such reform, it must have a deep analysis of the situation and a simulation of the changes it proposes. The proposal for this law by a colleague and colleagues on the areas of seat and court seats, as the Honorable representative Shex said at first reading, will not cause any positive changes if it is not installed in the total, total changes and reforms in the judiciary. And one more thing, this law, upon recognition of the motionor himself, is only prepared for a statistical analysis of the situation in the judiciary. That is why we have objections to the final proposal of the law that it did not respect the criteria for which the introduction cited them as a reason for change. We just heard from a colleague in Istria, and there are other examples. Even a representative of the Legislative Committee has cited absurd situations such as one administrative border being a county, county area and the other is a judicial area, so it does not match the administrative county border and the courts covering that administrative border. That is why the town of Novalja, located in the county of Rijeka and so on, is listed and belongs to Zadar County in the judicial area. The reasons for reforming the network of courts and seats have been repeated several times. It's a better usability to simply say the potentials that now exist in courts. Better usability is thought of by judges who judge because in larger courts they are reportedly able to specialize in trial. So in the conflict between the state and the individual, we prefer the interest of the global state again. We ignore the need for a citizen to come to court from his own needs. In addition to the tradition of this kind, with this new network of courts and this is already mentioned citizens will have much greater material expenditure but also much longer travel to the seat of the court. It is not anyway and Croatia is not quite as well networked as to whether it will travel to the court on a 15-minute tram or on foot, or will have to travel 50km to exercise its right in court. This is not all in the analysis taken into account, nor is it justified to change or merge as it is said in the courts. So the question remains whether the network of courts has been hit best. Especially the question remains, is she final? According to the applicant himself, this network of courts is not final. She will still suffer changes because of other needs. We'll do it, or what's finality? Not all negotiations with the European Union, although closed, can be opened tomorrow. No chapter that is now closed and will never be closed because things are simply changing in the European Union. Both countries and all participants in the European Union must re-access to negotiations in order to bring them together and to have the same rules in the common house. That is why I think that, of course, we cannot support any measure that contributes to the efficiency of the trial because it is the most important task. But we can't help but notice that this kind of network of courts has been proposed without a deep analysis and without the assessment that rights are being reduced to citizens we're pushing for something that can be changed tomorrow. This reform will cost citizens, but we also don't know how much. We don't know how much either. Perhaps the best thing for this reform was the previous law that the secretary of state very skillfully used. Law on reform in litigation, Law on litigation. But we'd better like reforms to be done essentially, like the Law on Prosecution and see how much they give results than physical unification, to bring the courts together, and wait for the result to produce what we need here to physically invest significant material capacities. Invest money in building space but also reorganise the already established practice of citizens. That is why I think it is worth it or would be worth it to us Parliamentarians and also to the citizens that we have, I will say simply the dynamics of the move in the reform of the judiciary for which we all stand, we are unique, but to know in what order we will bring which measure, and not to bring it either under pressure from the European Union or under pressure from associates who are more efficient, more efficient, and some more slow and less efficient. So partial reform in the judiciary can cause bad consequences, unwanted consequences as I believe that the reform of the courts' headquarters or the merger of courts in some areas will cause a poor reaction of citizens and less or more difficult to exercise citizens' rights... in court. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because of these assessments that have already been made so far, regardless of what the motioner says with the presidents of the courts. And even tells representatives of citizens, not citizens, but representatives of authorities in cities, municipalities and counties. It still doesn't give legitimacy because of citizens' rights. In such circumstances, I find it difficult to give Bianca support for reform or change of seat or merger of courts when even the applicant dared not say that the depth analysis has shown that this is the only solution or the best solution that will make the trial effective and that citizens will be best able to feel as a positive change. But in order not to be reformers, we do not want to accept this danger. We will also support this law regardless of all the reserves we have made. We will support the adoption of this law, but we are showing a desire for future reform of the judiciary or future moves in judicial reform to get some proposal for dynamics and order of moves simply so that we can control the Parliament, and it is our job to control the government as well. I think of Parliament as the most important body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12129	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12130	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, I will correct only one incorrect quote from my colleagues, Leka, where he claimed that this rationalization of the network of courts and the merger of courts was made only on the basis of statistical data, ordinary statistics, and now, finally, at the end of his presentation, he acknowledged that, by making a tour of all courts, county courts, presidents of municipal and county courts and representatives of citizens on the ground of municipalities and cities, he had come to this only real and rational solution for the reconstruction and merger of courts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12131	HSS Representatives' Club, Mr. Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12132	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. That the existing network of municipal courts is ineffective is the fact that we have 115 municipal courts, and out of them 108 works. That they are inefficient and overpriced and that certain rationalisation is indisputable. In addition, the Court of Justice Reform Strategy has determined that the Ministry of Justice, within the framework of the Justice System Reform Project, is to draw up a proposal based on a proposal that will reduce the number of municipal courts in such a way that individual courts can join each other. We believe that the analysis of the situation in the judiciary took into account that living conditions have changed significantly and that legal relations have become more complex and point to the need to specialise judges in certain legal areas. The adopted strategy for judicial reform will be implemented successfully, and if we approach and streamline the network of courts successfully. But it must not endanger the right of citizens to access the court. We believe that this is a good solution and we believe that the Ministry of Justice has also respected the proposals outlined in the first reading and that this Final Proposal for a Law on Areas and Seats of Courts will give the expected results. The expected results won't go away. If a special regulation is successfully resolved, the establishment of permanent services outside the court's seat and well determines the dynamics with the provision of working conditions, i.e. work space and other technical equipment in newly created courts' seats. Nevertheless, we are in a delicate and complex situation, a situation where the judicial institutions that have acted, and some municipal courts and over 200 and more years, and citizens have now gained confidence in them, or are being joined into larger courts. The proposed law supports the objectives set out in the harmonisation of the laws of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union and with the legal acts of the Council of Europe. We in Croatia will support these objectives and thus support the proposed solutions. We believe that with the efforts made, the interests and objectives of rationalising the network of courts will be reconciled with existing and revived practices, i.e. the needs of citizens. We hope that the regulation that the draft law imposes as an obligation to regulate the establishment of permanent services will respect the proposals and units of local self-government and find compromise solutions in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. First of all, we think of the good efficiency of permanent services, their proximity and availability to citizens, as well as the historical fact of the long-term activities of courts that are joined in the current courts, and we must not ignore the economic element that plays the role of land and book departments for our citizens, and especially now in the functioning of the privatisation of agricultural land as well as the overall collection of land books. We believe that this final draft law can improve the efficiency of courts and thus meet the required conditions for rationalising the network of courts and the conditions laid down in negotiating Chapter 23. We also point to the obligation to provide jobs to officials and appointmentees of courts who join, as their effectiveness, better organisation and their work experience depends on whether a larger number of cases can be resolved within a short period of time, thus providing citizens with more quality and faster access to justice. The Croatian Peasant Party Club will support the Final Proposal for a Law on Areas and Seats of Courts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12133	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue on this wheel. Mr. Agent Ivan Hanzek. He's gone, same fate as his predecessor. Mr. Representative Boris Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12134	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Well, I'd just like to say for a little while, I'm not going to bother this House of Commons with this question because in my first reading, I've presented certain problems that are related to the accession, or the state of the Municipality Court in Vrgorec. What came from the conclusion at the time is that we have said that if we already have to attach that attachment to Makarska, that is, the Split-Dalmatia County that we are connected to and in which we are, not to go to another county, or to another city, because it is then causing other problems, I think, and the consequences that come from all of this, and that is that we are no longer related to Split in all other issues, but are related to Dubrovnik, etc., which is not our answer to kill. What we're looking for is to respect this very moment, which is to join Makarska, not Metkovic. I see that it is not accepted, and in principle we are down there, it is not clear what is being obtained in Metkovic, and it cannot be obtained in Makarska. Nothing else, that would be about our position and question, and even my own, I'm down there and the mayor, and I have to answer the citizens too much as it is. In my opinion, it's the same as moving, either way, or whatever, so we're comfortable with Makarska, and now here it is if at least this way you can be appealed to by Mr. Secretary of State, someone else. That's it. I know the answer may be that there are others going to other counties, but if it suits them, let them go. We're not fit to go to another county. I would ask that it be brought, if it is possible to take care of it because I don't see it, I don't understand what it's getting in Metkovic, and we don't get in Makarska, and we stay in our county. I don't understand what we're getting down here, not here. Here, in that context, I'm not looking for anything, but I'm just going to raise my hand for this law, but we're looking to get us into Makarska, not Metkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12135	Thank you. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12136	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. This Final Proposal for a Law on Areas and Seats of Courts is not to be supported. Not because our network of courts doesn't tolerate one revision, but I don't think the time has come yet. There are so many jobs to be done before to see how to rationalize the judicial network. The truth is that it is estimated that Croatia is the largest number of courts, that Croatia is the country with the largest judges. But no one is saying that Croatia is also the country with the largest number of items compared to the number of inhabitants it has. However, every year the number of inhabitants is growing, and voters and court disputes are increasing. This is a strong turn of HDZ administration, which by 2000 advocated the concept behind each finished tree by one court and thus interpreted it as such that the court was closer to the citizens. Thus, in that grill and maru, the courts that have never been abolished or worked until this day are established. But for some time even the presidents of these courts had paid their wages, so they had to go around those small places with strong pressure and aggression justified citizens because people thought that the judge who didn't work there and thus the executive authority, and the legislative authority strongly supported the further embarrassing judicial profession. It may have been an example of that time when the court was officially opened in Novalja, there was a large, large reception, one roasted ox turned around and the court opened the moment the light of the stage and the camera went out, the court closed down. Tomorrow, naive citizens came to court, and the court closed and never worked. I can say that as a minister, I also wanted to shut down that court because there was no justification given to the court in Pag because of this rationalisation, but it was such a strong resistance and the mayor and with the right to give the building, so he helped establish that court, or open that court and, behold, he never worked. We also have these in Prec and Nin, for Nin was a historical city, so it is good to have a court, these were then historians, or historical justifications. Now it's such a twist that from one extreme we go to another extreme and we close the courts that really have excuses, especially at a current moment like this, still big lags. For example, the Court of Otok. He's got everything, so those parameters to keep him in court. Well, we can't have a whole county so important and how important and prosperous it is, we all want and stress that when certain topics here are now being discussed only in the court of Gospić, and generally when tried for some serious acts, then it is delegated according to the Supreme Court's decision and the joint decision of the state's attorney, the court is usually in Rijeka, and the grand building is half-empty. And in Otočec it is necessary, especially when the highway passes, these ends remain unrelated. There lives an older household, a population that has no connection, it will lose hours and hours, not to mention how tight it is with costs. So at this present current moment, it's not the time. I know it's some kind of recommendation and some kind of assessment that comes from Europe, but if we did everything else, then no one would ask us how much we have, they're such examples, so they haven't spoken before. In fact, their general assessment is make whatever you know your judiciary is effective, and when they see it, I guess, dissatisfied with the current situation, then you have a large number of courts, now we're going to cancel the courts, and what's going to happen, let's be realistic, is going to change just the inscriptions and the tables, so there's not going to be a court in the old building, but there's going to be a court inscription in Gospic, the Osoc station, so we're going to figure out that we did something there. So this is something we do, I don't know who we please, but first of all, we do damage to our own citizens because I say, in general, these are residents of these smaller places that are still, so there are still courts with enough cases, the debates in front of that court are exclusively, so they're related to their problems. The courts know this population well, and these are generally effective courts. They are during these reforms if anywhere the reform has shown its progress, it has shown precisely in these smaller courts. It's a court that doesn't have a backlog. These are the courts in which land-booked departments of people are generally immediately obtained land-booked excerpts and ultimately have their own historical role and we can't just give up one of our features, here we are today talking about wood, the same is the case with courts in some places. I think the islander is an excellent example of where the courts shouldn't be lifted. And in addition, we passed a law that allowed less burdensome, i.e. a provision, we amended the Law on the jurisdiction of courts, on local jurisdiction, and therefore allowed these less-loaded courts to divide the cases from the loaded courts right now. What's going to happen to that law? So it's obvious that this concept isn't fully designed either, because that law continues to exist. Then at this point he becomes unnecessary. But that law, here we see that he was prepared for more, not that it matters, but that in 2002, 2003, the government, that in 2004, so prepared here was voted, supported by all MPs, that it was an important wheel that contributed to the reform of that daily, something that the citizen immediately saw and felt. And the citizens took it very well, and they didn't even have a hard time traveling from smaller cities to smaller cities because they were aware that they were going where their case would be quickly and efficiently solved. So to do something just because we have a pass by Europe, I think that we have stronger procedures here in some other things, so that the administration becomes more efficient, that fewer cases come to the courts, that would be one legal example of how many yearly cases come to our courts. It is an alarming situation that now every three-member family has one case before the court and that our courts meet from 1500 to 1800 cases each year, despite the fact that we have charged the courts so-called. by giving court commissioners such as public notebooks, a whole series of proceedings. So I'm still staying with that claim of mys, that it's really crazy to break the courts if we have so many cases, like we're ending hospitals, thinking that this way we're going to stop an epidemic or a disease from declaring it healthy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12137	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12138	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable state secretary, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. I believe it is necessary to approach the process of streamlining the network of courts in line with the conclusion that the process of rationalising the network of courts under the CARDS project is ineffective and uneconomical. Analysis under the CARDS project 2002/2003. They have shown that the Republic of Croatia is listed in one of the European states with the highest number of courts, judges and administrative staff, if we take into account the size of the territory and population, but on the other hand, and with large judicial backlogs. The main reasons that point to the urgent need to rationalise the courts refer to the current structure of the courts where exactly the imbalance in the burden of judges in court cases leads to delays in unresolved cases. When drawing up a proposal for the rationalisation of the network of courts, certain criteria for the merger of the network of courts are respected, including the taking of cases received during one calendar year and the number of judges required according to framework criteria, the number of residents away from the nearest court. The additional criteria are also taken as a total number of cases solved and pending in court, the number of cases solved by a particular judge, the assessment of the inflow of cases, the assessment of the resolution of old cases, the ratio of the number of judges and other court employees to the inflow of the case and the impact on the urgency of the case. The proposal also provides for trade courts to settle disputes relating to ships and navigation at sea and inland waters and disputes to which shipping law applies. Furthermore, which municipal courts will handle cases in criminal proceedings for criminal offences for which the prescribed sentence of prison has been imposed for more than 10 years in civil proceedings on the establishment or dispute of paternity or motherhood from labour relations for the correction of information and compensation caused by the publication of information, protection from illegal action and the recognition of the execution of decisions by foreign courts. I believe that the rationalisation of the network of courts will contribute to the even burden of judges and court staff with cases, to the speedy resolution of lagging cases, as well as the decision-making within a reasonable period of time. Also, a better organisation of work, the possibility of specialising judges, greater flexibility in the work and management of the court and uniform judicial practice will lead to an effective, modern and rational judiciary. In conclusion, I would point out that the applicant accepted my suggestions to amend Article 11 and suggested that the provision of Article 2 be adopted on 1 January 2009. For this reason, I support the Final Proposal for a Law on Areas and Seats of Courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12139	Thank you. Mr. Representative Damir Sesvečan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12140	Dear Vice President, State Secretary with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. So here is the final proposal of the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts in the second reading. They are therefore proposed to streamline the network of courts in accordance with the Justice System Reform Strategy, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted on 20 September 2005, the strategy also envisions the creation of a network of courts that will be rational but will not reduce citizens' right to access the court. As is said, when setting out this rationalisation proposal, the burden of individual courts was taken into account, the number of cases received in view of the type and the number of judges needed to resolve these cases during the year, which is precisely defined by framework criteria for the work of judges. It was also taken into account the geographical position of courts, the number of inhabitants and the density of population in a given area, the distance to the nearest court and the traffic connection. In my first reading of this law, I talked about a proposal relating to the merger of certain courts in the Zagreb County from which I came, and I am therefore particularly interested in the proposed solutions. Thus, this law proposes the merger of municipal courts in St. John Zelina and Dug Selo to the Municipal Court in Sesvedi. It is explained that when proposing this merger, it was found that according to the established criteria in the courts in St. John Zelin and Duh Sel, there are more judges than the required number, four, and three of them are needed to resolve the number of cases received, while there are two judges missing in the Sesvets. In my debate, I pointed to any problems of joining the court in St. John's Green, especially those in Long Village, so I'm going to repeat them this time. So, Long Village monitors intensive settlement and a very positive natural population growth. According to the 2001 census, the area of Dugi Sela numbered 14 thousand 400, and today the number has been increased to nearly 19 thousand inhabitants. With the associated municipalities of Rugviz and Brckovljani, that number is rising to 35,000 inhabitants in the area, so I think that the proposer of this fact should certainly consider, therefore. But regardless of the outcome of the merger, it is important that both in Dugi Selo and St. John Zelina remain grantovnica, because the majority of citizens come to court precisely because of data from land books. Of course, the need for physical arrival in grantshops will eventually decline, as almost all data will be available in electronic form, and we know that by the end of 2007, 98% of land-book cartridges have been copied into the digital database and more than 45% have been verified by then. In concrete cases of merger of courts, it should also be used in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Courts, the possibility of establishing permanent services or departments, as well as the determination of judgment days outside the court's seat. In any case, I want to repeat that I think that citizens are more concerned with the quality and speed of judicial protection than the very distance of the court, whether the court is 10 or 20 kilometers closer or further. The length of the length of proceedings, i.e. the inability to exercise the right to trial within a reasonable period, is one of the main reasons for the citizens' perception of the ineffectiveness of the judiciary and the eclant problem on the way to the rule of law and the rule of law. Therefore, one of the objectives of this rationalisation of the network of courts is also the specialisation of judges that will reflect precisely on the quality, and thus the shorter duration of the court proceedings. There will be improvement in the management of court cases, more equal burden on judges, more equal distribution of cases, faster resolution of lagging cases, more uniform court practice, and, regardless of the higher initial costs due to the equipment of courts, greater economicity, or long-term financial savings. Here are the reasons why I will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12141	Thank you. Mr. Representative Kresimir Gulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12142	Dear Vice President, the Secretary of State is gone, here are the co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here is a Law on Areas and Seats of Courts. Politically this is definitely not an easy job, it's not popular because when other things get something different, it's not popular anyway. But what's important to say is that this isn't a law that abolishs something, or takes away some right of citizens, this is a more quality trial, a faster trial and a more effective trial, which is what we all want and purpose. According to the current Law on Areas and Seats of Courts in the Republic of Croatia, we have 115 municipal courts, 107 of which work, and 8 courts of the Ministry of Justice have made no decision on his work. The law established 21 more county courts and 13 commercial courts, and such a large number of municipal courts and their existing network proved ineffective and of course it is not economical. The Republic of Croatia is listed among one of the European states with the highest number of courts, the highest number of judges and administrative staff, but on the other hand with the highest number of court delays. The analysis carried out also showed that the causes of ineffectiveness of the Croatian judiciary can be found right in the current structure of the courts. This also led to the need for a network of municipal courts in the Republic of Croatia to be rationalised. The criteria which have been taken into account for the merger of municipal courts have been adopted during one calendar year and the number of judges required according to framework criteria means at least 5 judges, then the number of inhabitants, away from the nearest judge of the circus 50 kilometers, with exceptions such as the geographical specificities of the courts on the islands. The objectives expected to streamline the network of courts in the Republic of Croatia are effective modern and rational judiciary, even burden on judges and court staff with cases without solving the cases left behind, as well as making court decisions within the development period. After the merger of the courts at their headquarters and during the year of retirement of the court staff, a higher economicity of the courts is also expected. The rationalisation of the network of courts is, of course, a multi-year process and everywhere in the world where it is done took a certain number and many years. We are scheduled to be implemented until 31 December 2019, and depending on the dynamics of ensuring the work space and technical equipment of the courts in their seats. The entry into force of this law would be 65 municipal courts, thus the courts would continue to work until they were joined in the seat of the courts as departments of the courts in which they are joined with any possibility of managing such courts or would already, as there would already be one president of the court, one joint office, one accounting office, and there would already be a possibility of specialising judges in certain types of cases. This is one of the unequivocal big projects, this is one of the great conundrums within a network of municipal courts, but most importantly, we think that one better organisation of a different and much more quality will discuss this burden of trial, because what we have today, we have in large cities of courts that are overloaded by the application of the case, and in smaller cities there will be courts that live much more comfortable where judges simply have time, if there are 100 to 200 litigation cases in one city, of course they can meet their standards, and we have Zagreb as well as 700 to 800, and it is difficult in that, it is difficult to meet such a norm. It is with this new network of courts that we will achieve that we will have a better and more equal burden on judges and, of course, the possibility of providing judges with specialization. Specialization will have judges who will know, meaning only to judge certain segments of law, which means we will also have procedures that will be conducted faster, we will also have better judgments that will not be brought to an end in a second-degree court, we will have a uniform court practice, and these are all the goals that are actually for the reform judiciary and for which I stand. What I'd like to say is, four years ago, we had cca million and 800 pending cases, here today, thank God, we have cca somewhere about 900 thousand unsolved cases, where one big confession should be given to the Ministry of Justice. This new bill will reduce, we hope to hold a hearing that we have now held 15 to 20 hearings, that this will be reduced to some 3 to 5 hearings, and I think that citizens do not care how far the individual court is, but how quickly its case can be resolved. Because when we talk about distance, if someone walks on the hearings 15 times, I don't know his court 15 km away, I think if his court is still 10 or 20 km away, he's going to have a smaller number of hearings, that he's going to save not only on time, he's going to be out of work, not just on lawyers, and everything that comes with that expense, I think it's more important that his case is resolved as soon as possible, even if he was still. What's important is to say that here's this new amendment and addition proposal, this proposal on courts, there won't be job cuts, so no one gets fired, everyone stays in their jobs. And what's also important to say is that here's the government in its budget provides 40 million kuna, already this year right for restructuring and a new network of courts. For all the above, I will support the changes, i.e. the adoption of this Law on Courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12143	Thank you. Mrs. Representative, Nadia Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12144	Dear Vice President, ceases from the government, colleagues and colleagues. Already during the first reading of this Law on Court Headquarterss, all the representatives who come from Međimurje County were dissatisfied with the proposed network of courts for the reason that the Municipal Court in Prelog joins the Municipal Court in Čakovec and so the county with 23 municipalities and 3 cities from over 120 thousand inhabitants will have only one municipal court, so the one in Čakovec. What we fear further in Međimurje is that in one of the following rationalisations the County Court in Čakovec will also be abolished, since the County Court as a second-degree court cannot judge only one municipal court. I'm going to repeat some of our common arguments, which is why we should remain the Municipal Court in Prelog. A municipal court in Prelog was established in 1990, because there was absolutely a need for it. I must say again also that the Prelog had its Municipal Court from 1850 until 1945, and it was as the Royal Court of Kotar, until 1963 as the Court of Kotar in Prelog. Thus, the Prelog court was not abolished even during the Hungarian occupation of Međimurje from 1941 to 1945, and today, when we have our own state, that court belongs to the Municipal Court in Čakovec. Today, the Municipal Court in Prelog covers an area of 7 units of local self-government with about 30 thousand inhabitants. It has 15 people, three of whom are judges. The land and book department of this court covers 20 catastrian municipalities with about 58 thousand sad book deposits, and an annual growth of about 10 thousand land-booked items, not to mention other court cases. What problems will cause this court to be attached to the Municipal Court in Čakovec? First of all, a spatial problem will arise because conditions for the functioning of the court and the county court have barely been created in the municipality's court's area of court in Čakovec after the misdemeanor court has been moved. So you're going to need to provide extra space, which will be a clear new cost. Is that rational? And the key word in this bill is rationalization. The municipal court in Prelog has now a functional space in the building owned by the city of Prelog and which, if necessary, can be extended and completely free of charge. I'm out, completely free. The city of Prelog is a local environment that has been developing very intensively since 1990. Prelogous entrepreneurs record the highest economic growth rates in the county. Moreover, it is a strong export-oriented economy based on new technologies and such a successful environment, you will agree with respected colleagues and colleagues to provide all public services needed for even faster development and progress. The abolition of the municipal court will lose a very important part of the public infrastructure needed by the economy and citizens of lower Međimurje, and one of the main attributes of the city will be lost. So, the Prelog will also have a misdemeanor court and tax administration, state geodetic administration, police station, pension insurance facilities, employment services, state administration offices, administrative department for spatial planning and construction, secondary school, banking institutions, public records and law offices, but will not have a municipal court. Leading by a series of arguments presented, the Međimurians are looking for a new network of municipal courts to remain the Municipal Court in the Prelogo by extending its jurisdiction and territorial work in a way that is added to the existing 7 municipalities and these are: Donji Kraljevec, Donji Vidovac, Donja Dubrava, Gorjan, Kotoriba, St. Mary and of course the city of Prelog, which together counts another 6 municipalities of Belica, Dekanovec, Domasinec, Mala Subotica, Orehovica and Poturen with another 20,000 inhabitants. In this way, we would have two municipal courts in Međimurje with equal jurisdiction and territory and with a more even deployment of population. Of course, in the Municipal Court of Prelog, there would also be an increase in the number of judges who could clearly submit more cases at that time. Such an organisation of courts, at least from the point of view of the Međimurje services, would make it more accessible to the citizens, and that is absolutely the most important, and in that sense, my colleague Zgrebec and I have submitted the corresponding amendment and, of course, the fate of this amendment depends on our support for this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12145	Thank you. Mr. Representative Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12146	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Secretary of State, of course, that we as Parliamentarians mean that we really understand the situation in which you have found yourself as a person who is obliged to adopt one of these draft laws, or the final draft of the law, in the manner in which it is proposed to us and with arguments that when we neutrally observe them, we can say that in any case the arguments are good that this law establishes municipal, county and commercial courts and determines their headquarters and areas of jurisdiction and general conclusion that we really have too many, too many courts in Croatia and that this excess courts obviously did not bring that quality, and that is that the disputes before these courts are faster, more effectively, more efficient and all to the satisfaction of our citizens. It was also difficult and I believe that this is only the top of the dream because these courts that remain will also be too many according to the number of inhabitants, so it is obvious that we will also have to go to an additional restructuring in due course of time and I would not, the restriction, apologize. I would not say anything if we were to follow one logic that is apparent in the fact that the bill had some criteria as to how we came to the fact that some of the courts would not speak, but we would bring them together and attach them to some other courts, and I believe that, apart from the statistics that were conducted by the representatives of this law, that they should also appear to have had conversations with representatives of units of local self-government such as cities and municipalities and, of course, they also spoke to judges, county judges and judges of cities that these courts were being abolished or attached, and that they could only imagine how this debate and these proposals were the way they were. I'll try to say it on two or three examples that I said last time that I might be bad, but unfortunately I don't want to be bad. I want to see if there's any logic and that some things try to come down to some logical whole. First of all, in the Primorje-Goran County, the court in Vrbovska, the town of Vrbovska, which is as it is because we know what the court is like in Vrbovska, but, behold, the court in one town notes when I was about to say that it could be bad and I won't be bad, we will use it safely in the pre-election campaign because surely, be sure not me but some others will use it that HDZ's rule at the state level has abolished courts in cities and municipalities in which HDZ is in power. That's what any normal opposition representative or one who shows up in the campaign will say, I think it's unnecessary and it's not good, but basically that's how it is. And now an explanation of why this court is attached, so it's not abolished, it's attached to Ogulin, it just doesn't hold water. The conversations you've had and I know you've done with the judge or judge in Delnice, with the county judge Mr. Miskolin, I'm afraid they couldn't say no, they couldn't refuse you. They got an offer they couldn't refuse. The fact is that the court in Ogulin is what it is, that in Delnice it would be more logical that in the same county citizens of Vrbovski where the existing highway can come really faster. Even that distance is no longer so important and crucial. In Delnice, a court that has a regulated space, which has a sufficient number of high-quality judges and in Delnices where these cases are solved at once envious speed, it is by the assessment of all those who were in that court. So that's where we already have the space. We also have judges who can do this, but we're not moving that court in Vrbovska to another county. You said here at the beginning that, there'd be garters and cadastres. Now I'm not an expert... Mr. Secretary of State I'm no expert, here I apologize I'm really not an expert, but as a layman try to tell me I'm meeting the court just as well as the citizens, and then I knock on the door and what it looks like if the cadastre and grantovnica stays in the Primorje-Goran County. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Is it in Vrbovska or is it in Delnice? But then I have to get that thing out of the catastra and the garter and then I'm going to court in Ogulin. I don't think that's going to be so good and it won't be, that this approach to the court is then closer and that even though life has changed as you say it is, we have some habits and some needs that should follow one logic, which is that the Municipal Court in Vrbovska, if there's any meaning and logic, does it have to be attached? If it has to be attached then in, to the Municipal Court in Shares. I will not say what I think is also something that seems wrong to me, that in Lika-Senj County there is only the Municipal Court in Gospić for the local units, for the area of the municipalities as indicated here and that an old Croatian town of Senj has liked that there is no more to be abolished than to join the municipal court in Gospić, which in my opinion would have some logic or by, for the municipal court no longer left in Ličko-Senj County, which my colleague used to say than there is a need to go to the Municipal Court in Crikvenica. It's closer to them. Will it please the citizens of Senj I doubt. So it seems to me that it may have taken after all these discussions of satisfaction and dissatisfaction, both on one side and on the other, something a little louder on this side, something quieter on the other side that it might have taken this initial phase of accession, at least follow some logic of the courts that at least stay in the same county and I won't repeat what my colleague said about my native Novalja in which the court exists, but then they'll be in another county now they'll be in Pag and then still related to a higher instance, to the County Court in Zadar, and not elsewhere. I think the need for this kind of life to change is that it should have made difficult decisions to do something like this, this kind of law that would make the seat of courts and attaching some other courts to the judiciary more effective, but I don't think life has changed so much, that we couldn't follow one logic because you can't tell me that quality, which is why we're doing it, that a better trial will be for the citizens of the town of Vrbovski in Ogulin than it will be in the town of Delnice where, as I said, they have a building, have qualified judges who have so far proven that this job can work and have room for it. It is obvious that there was something else that prevailed here other than just some professional decision-making and conversation you had with county judges and municipal judges, and that seems to me it is not good if something else prevailed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12147	Thank you very much. In 18.47, it was time to report a ten-minute debate. Now we're going to interrupt the debate and continue tomorrow because there would be no time planned for the next MP, it's Mr. Representative Arsen Biuk, but there's another one. Bauk, I apologize. Yeah, well, there's a secretary of state. So, tomorrow at 9.30, we'll continue the debate, and tomorrow will be for the national holiday, ahead of the state holiday by 3:00 a.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12148	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, good morning to everyone. We are continuing with the session and agenda point that we launched yesterday the Final Proposal for a Law on Areas and Seats of Courts. It's Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12149	I would like to thank Mr. President, my colleagues and my colleagues, the MPs, the honourable secretary of state. In my presentation, I will only touch on two cases, i.e. two amendments, which I have proposed to correct, or improve, some solutions, in the context of the existing measures of the courts. I did not have the ambition to change the basis of the law, so some municipal courts are still being added, but only within the framework of an existing attempt to make it easier for citizens to have access to quality legal protection. Because of course, I hope that everything we do, we are doing to make it easier for the citizens, not to make it difficult for them. So, in this context, since we are as islanders, we are already framed by the sea, and I will try to keep in it. So, I filed two amendments. One is that the Municipality court in Vrgorec joins the Municipal Court in Makarska, not Metkovic, and I see that Mr. Mayor Vrgorca also discussed it yesterday and I see that he has submitted the amendment. Vrgorac has been leaning on Makarska since a long time ago and belongs to the Split-Dalmatia County and we think it would be a better solution if the court had to connect with some court to connect with Makarska rather than Metkovic. Of course, the best merger of Vrgorca will be on the highway in a few months, and by then, here if it can be connected to Makarska, instead of Metkovic, I think that would be a better solution. There's a building built ten years ago, it's new and it's even better than any solution for this Parliament to bring, it's a better building than any of these two courts. But it doesn't matter. If that's what it takes, I think we should at least make a better solution. Some of my colleagues also discussed the crossing of the county borders in some cases. For me, it's not a very big problem, and I think that, at least as far as the solutions that are in the bill of law for municipalities and cities on the islands are concerned, I think they're good, that the promoter also respected the specificities of the island. For example, in the Primorje-Gorski County of 7 courts 3 are on the islands and should not be less. So, Krk, Mali Losinj and Rab. In Zadar County, the municipal court in Pag really includes part of the town of Novalja. However, if that is the will of the citizens, it is certainly easier for them to go to Pag for court, than for Gospić, Senj or where another solution would already be possible. Also in Dubrovnik-Neretva County. We have a municipal court in Korčula which also includes part of the Peljesac peninsula which is also situated on the island of Korčula and is closer to coming. So in this sense, I do not see any major and significant changes as regards the island courts themselves. My second amendment would be, is the product of a conversation with one part of the citizens of Lastovo municipality. So, the island of Lastovo belongs to Dubrovnik-Neretva County and is placed under the jurisdiction of the Municipal Court in Korcula. My proposal is to define the jurisdiction of the Municipal Court in Split for the Municipality of Lastovo because, due to the traffic connection from Lastovo, it is much easier to come to Split than to come to Korčula, in the town of Korčula. If he were in Greater Luka, it'd be kind of easier. Here, I'll give an example. The only connection in the winter months of Lastova with the mainland and with Korčula and with the island of Korčula and with Split is one catamaran and one ferry. The ferry goes at 4.30 and the catamaran at 4.55 or 4.25 isn't that important now. And when citizens who need a court service get to Korčula it's five or six o'clock in the morning to Vela Luka. And then they need another 54km to get to Korčula in order to return to Vela Luka in the afternoon as well with the same ferry or catamaran going back from Split. For them, a much simpler solution is if they already have work to do in court to go to Split. There they come at 7 o'clock in the morning or at 9, depending on what connection they go with and don't have to wait 2 hours after dark in the winter months to search for transport 50 km because they immediately come to the city where the court is, they can do some other things in court and go back the same day with the same ferry which, then fits into Vela Luka which is 54 km from Korčula where the court is. I think that this solution for the citizens of Lastovo would be better, and Mr. Secretary of State, I am asking you to vote and consult with local self-government, because I think that's a better solution for them right now. As for other solutions, of course everything we said in the first reading, all those remarks remain. So, the network of courts. Obviously, we've been given some kind of assignment that we're trying to find ourselves in. I see that HDZ colleagues also have some amendments, some that are the same in terms of facilitating citizens and others to establish new courts. I hope that if you accept such amendments that you will then be equal to the amendments regardless of which side of this assembly they come from, because it would not be a good idea for some small town to get a municipal court again, and that some other major would not get just because the amendment was filed on the wrong side of the assembly. Also, I hope that these amendments, which within the framework of the existing network of courts will indeed make the proposed networks of courts really easier for citizens to access to justice, that you will consider them and hope to accept them. And here's another amendment for Lastovo Island. It's owned by about 800 residents. So, it won't be much, we won't have much burden on the court in Split when we've already given Kaštela and Solin who have about 50,000 inhabitants together, and it won't change any world trends, it won't affect the price of oil or the entry into the European Union, and the people, in any case, will be easier to get to the court in Split than to the town of Korčula who said 50 km away from the nearest point on that island where the ferry is coming, so please Mr. Secretary of State to think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12150	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12151	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor. I really may find it difficult to speak today as a man who comes from Požega-Slavon County, and when it comes to courts, especially the court in Pakrac. It's hard for me to say for reasons I know that even in the proposal, that in Pacrac in a given meaning, the court still remains in operation, but knowing that there will be no court seat in Pakrac my pleasure is a team bigger. Especially because I know that the court in Pakrac was founded in 1877 and because all this time it worked and worked. We know the horrors Pacrac experienced during the Homeland War and we know they wanted to destroy that same city. But at the same time, these defenders have preserved the same city, their dignity, but at the same time today I want to say that regardless of the court's seat in Pakrac, that the court will function further and that nothing special should happen. Of course, our pleasure to the people who come from Požega-Slavon County would like the court to continue to have its seat. But given the rationalisation of the judiciary, given other cities in Croatia which are also dissatisfied as we are, we must simply agree that the rationalisation of courts above all. But one thing is certain, that people living in Pacrac will not be denied because there will be no court seat in Pakrac, they will not be denied because they will have to go to another city. It is also here in the proposal for the city to be Daruvar, a town in the second district of Bjelovar-Biogorska, and we want that court, if not already based in Pakrac, to be attached to the court in Požega. In Požega because Pakrac is in Požega-Slavon County and because regardless of distance by looking in kilometers, he is certainly in Požega because Pakrac is also in Požega-Slavon County. It would not be good if after this suspension of the court's seat, the court was the only one in Croatia to be moved to another county. It will be really difficult to explain this to our citizens, but what is important is that we explain exactly how rationalization is, as I said above all, but our goal and desire is for the court to stay in Požega-Slavon County and not to move to another location, i.e. not to be attached to Bjelovarska-Biogorska rather than to be attached to Požega-Slavon County and to stay in Požega-Slavon County. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12152	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zdravko Ronko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12153	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here I would like to join this debate on the Proposal for a Final Law on Areas and Seats of Courts. Article 2 of course provides that the County Court in Požega would only cover the jurisdiction of the Municipal Court in Požega, hence, that the Municipal Court in Pakrac would be attached to Daruvar. For us it is absolutely unacceptable, and also from the title of the so-called. rationalization, because the rationalization of the network of courts is because there are supposed to be criteria. I believe we should stick to them. One of the criteria is 50km away, not more than 50km away. The number of judges, the number of files, traditions, etc., and the Municipal Court in Pakrac has fulfilled all this. The municipality court in Pakrac has 5 to 6 judges, so there is the possibility of forming an extra-judicial council, there are enough cases per judge, and you must know that the distance of Pacrac and Lipik from Daruvar is so much that it would make it impossible for citizens to access that new court anyway. The courts in Pakrac and Daruvar are equal by the number of cases, but here I would say well-known politicians, and now I hear MPs from our end, even trying to change the original proposal that went after Novska to join Pakraca, and you know for a fact that Minister Lovrin at a meeting of the Association of Judges said that the court in Pakrac remains. Why it's changed, of course. In addition, when it comes to the county, the county represents one whole, the cities and municipalities within the county are connected and it is insane for us to move the court and bring it together with the court in another county, and I also think it is inappropriate that the court from the Slavonian region belongs to Podravje because again by who knows which time we open the question of the status of our troubled Slavonia. Besides, there are several renovated buildings in Pakrac, and a lot of money has been spent on it. There's certainly a court in them. There is room in it or in those buildings for both Novska and Daruvar and therefore there is no basis to move the court to Daruvar, because in Daruvar we would have to build a new building and with all that infrastructure that already exists in Pakrac. It should also be said that the Government intends to abolish the court in Pakrac even though the court, as well as the Požega court, has existed since 1741 when Maria Teresa established Požek County with the cities of Kutina and Daruvar. In addition, it should be said that this and this bill of law is a bad solution for the County Court in Požega because it remains only a senior court and only for this municipal court in Požega and it is evident that such a political bureaucratic and party-colored decision does not have much to do with reality, but it aims at a small door to push through great things. I thought I'd ask the MPs from our neighborhood if they might vote for a decision like this. I believed he wouldn't, but from this exposure, I saw that he would even lobby for it. And I'd say in the end that, here's my colleague talking, the rest of the courts on the islands, I support it, and it's known for what reasons. But I ask the question why can't the court stay in Pacrac? He's in the field of special state care. The Pacrac was greatly destroyed in the Homeland War. That's where we're going to stay now and without 15 graduate lawyers, so much professional equipment, or they're going to be on the desk or we're going to get people back into retirement. This isn't a good solution. I'd like to think about this in particular when it comes to Pacrac with all the status, attributes he has and tradition since 1741. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12154	Thank you. Finally, on behalf of the club for five minutes, Mr. Damir Cain, IDS.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12155	... MPs. [[Specially enabled.]] I really don't understand why this law. The law on the seat of the courts followed the territorial division of former municipalities and as far as the seat of those areas is concerned, it certainly was one of the most logical solutions. My impression that such a single law of Croatia is absolutely unnecessary at the moment. I don't believe he'll bring anything. Someone will say that that's how I speak because the court in Buzet is abolished, clearly it's not far from the truth, but in the same way I spoke when it was proposed to abolish the court in Poreč or in one Rovinj. I claim that one of the most prospective cities may be in the country today, one little Buzet. In doing so, I mean security, the fact that there are no unemployed, that they import labour from Slovenia, which has exports per capital per capita of over 20 thousand dollars, and only through the processing of metals which is Croatian unique, and all this would not have been if the city had not had its own institutions. It means he didn't have his seat in the municipality or the city, the catastra, the police, the court, and I know who not. Now, while there may be some rivalry between individual institutions elsewhere, there has been one full consensus, one consensus, and this has proved to be one perspective policy. I personally hold that the loss of any institution, let alone any court, is not good for anyone. How am I supposed to try and explain it, maybe it's best for that folk to always keep the hair where the cargo is fit? And that's why it's not good for gentlemen to lose those institutions. Let's let it go now that one Buzet court may be one of the most pressing in the Republic of Croatia and now we bring it together with each other, also on an up-to-date court, the one in Pazin. I don't think that's wise. Otherwise, I'll calm the Buzicans who think it'll completely lose their ability to use that court. No, he won't. He almost won't lose anything. So if that's the case, if the citizens almost lose nothing, then why change the seats of Buzetski or any other court? Namely, the garter will still be in Buzet where it is, the ZK excerpt will extract where they extract it, the debate will continue to take place in Buzet, and then the question of what is changing is raised? There's a change in that board on the building where the City Court will no longer write in Buzet, but in Pazin. The municipal court in Buzet will no longer have the President or President of the Court, but, for example, On the other hand, some beliefs about impunity, and for every public tender you must have today, you will have to do so the next day in Pazin, not where you have always done so. So, in my opinion, the costs will increase for all of Croatia, travel costs for judges, that board, and the other will more or less, as well as efficiency, remain the same. So I'm saying that this law is unnecessary at this point, and what may have been needed to do, infringing courts connect with municipal courts. Whether this country will have 108 municipal courts as many as there are today, 75 or 55, I think it is completely irrelevant for both our citizens and for Croatia and for the European Union and for the world and for humanity and the universe, and I don't know what else to list here. What I welcome, however, in this legislative proposal is the strict application of bilingualism in Istria. I think it should be a model for some other environments in the Republic of Croatia, especially after some concerts here in the centre of the Republic of Croatia's capital began to re-candidate "Kill, kill a Serb" etc. Only means using strict bilingualism can preserve one co-existence, you can preserve the combination, but clearly without double rights and it will be a farce. In my court, the minority is ghettoized, assimilated, and minority parties are largely fined. So, for the last time, the IDS club really doesn't keep this legal proposal logical. We think that he is unnecessary and that simply in this world of trial and "availability of justice to the citizens" nothing fundamental after the adoption of this law will change.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12156	Thank you. And finally, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Mr. Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12157	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I thank everyone who participated in the debate. Once again I want to emphasise, this is one necessary step in the reform of the Croatian judiciary, this is one step that we create a new and institutional and normative framework for much better, for a fuller quality trial in the Republic of Croatia. To all those who fear that this is a matter of abolishing some courts I want to order once again from this pay phone, it's not an abolition, it's a merger, it's a creation of more respectable, new courts in which we're going to have specialization. Mr. Ronko, there's no fear for Pacrac. In Pakrac, people will continue to come to the same garland, there will continue to be discussions in Pakrac, only they will be led by judges specialists who are who we are at that point before this, and these are the amendments to the Law on Prosecution, which we have given the tools to lead these proceedings faster and to lead more effectively. This law should be seen in the light of the others we have proposed in this House, and this is also the amendment of the Law on Courts and Amendments to the Executive Act and the amendment of the Law on the Procedural Procedure, and I will also come into the process of this debate a new, completely new Law on Criminal Procedure and we are really taking very decisive steps in the reform of the Croatian judiciary. This is just one in a row. Already this year, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has provided 40 million kuna for construction, for the adaptation of existing buildings. In this project we will also provide better conditions, material conditions for the work of our judges. So to all who have submitted the amendments, we will again analyse them and even come to the field and look again at how much they have meaning and justification and prepare for the vote to see if there is anything else we can do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12158	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. They'll decide when the conditions are met. Now I'd like to make a suggestion. I would suggest that we work without a break today until 3:00 p.m., if we finish the session, then I would like to inform you that the materials arrived in the boxes yesterday for 14 points of the agenda, of which is 6 so-called. The European laws, when we will continue to sit on the agenda for a week of 2.07 on Wednesday, so we will continue to put these points on the agenda, so please, as it is a week's break to take over the materials and prepare for the continuation of the session on July 2nd. So that's what it would be. If we agree, then let's move on. We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts. The second is reading, P.Z.E. No. 30. The debate is closed. The review of the amendment has been submitted to you on benches. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to show up on the amendments. State Secretary Drazen Bosnjakovic. Amendment 1 to the Council of Representatives... is withdrawn. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The second is the amendment of the Club of Representatives of the CNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12160	The amendment is not accepted. So when we entered this whole project, we set very clear criteria, we put the courts together where the inflow of the case is less than five judges. And that it's moving within a 50-mile radius. If we put the court together in Pakrac and the court in Nov, then we wouldn't get a court that had enough inflow of cases for more than five judges. But in any case, as far as Pacraca is concerned, that organisational subjective on the ground in any case, that means both the existence of the grant and the department of the court, but of course those fateful days to carry out the debates further. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12161	Thank you. HNS Club, Mr. Representative Vincelj, Vincelj Zeljko.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12162	So I would like to conclude that the Croatian People's Party considers the rationalisation of the network of courts, i.e. the abolition of certain courts of localities, especially those who have a long tradition and efficiency in resolving court disputes, to be literally a cosmetic measure of the Ministry of Justice which Europe wants to present with the vision of action and will not result in a faster and more effective verdict. All we're gonna do is walk the court records into another courthouse in another city. And probably the same judge is told that no one will lose their jobs, but we will have to travel a few dozen kilometers, but that judge will have to travel a few dozen miles further to work than those citizens who will spend both the time and the money and the nerve to go to another city with which they may not be connected by public transportation. The abolition of a court should also be the result of careful analysis of the effects and effects and talks and agreements with court workers and leaders of local self-government, I do not think you have asked for the opinion of the responsible people of Bjelovar-Bilogor, Sisak-Moslavina, Požega-Slavonska, but also Krapina-Zagorska or any other county, because they, like us in HNS, would tell you that you are not doing well.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12163	Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 3 to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12164	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12165	It becomes an integral part of the bill. 4. Representative Frana Lucic has been withdrawn. 5th legislator Emil Tomljanovic has been withdrawn. 6th Representative Zdravko Ronko.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12166	It's the same explanation as for this second amendment with that I'd just like to supplement. We have certainly conducted consultations on the ground and with the profession and the mayors and the mayors and made good analyses and we believe that such a system as we propose will certainly bring good results.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12167	Mr. Zdravko Ronko is gone, so we'll vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The amendment of Mr. Boris Matkovic's 7th representative is withdrawn. 8th Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12168	The government does not accept this amendment either. We propose to connect the municipality court in Vrgorec to the municipal court in Metkovic, where we will also connect the municipal court in Ploča. We will build a good infrastructure, however, given the configuration of the terrain in any case organisational subjectivity on the ground yes. So both grant and debated days so that it wouldn't happen if people from those farthest settlements were traveling. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12169	Mr. Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12170	Thank you, Mr. President. In an explanation of the rejection of the previous amendment, you said you were consulting among other things and with representatives of local self-government. I was present here when the mayor of the city we're talking about also submitted the same amendment so he withdrew it, which I am very sorry that the party's discipline above the citizens' interest gave the same amendment. So it's simply that most citizens of Vrgorca local self-government and everyone else wants that if they already have to connect with someone, and there the building was installed recently, perhaps 10 years ago and is probably better than the building in Metkovic, a building in Makarska, that if they already have to connect to the municipal court in Makarska. And here, I am very sorry that the party's discipline is above the citizens' interests, but there are more MPs representing both these citizens and I am asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12171	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 9th Amendment of the same agent, Mr. Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12172	We don't accept. Here it is proposed that the municipality court in Split be responsible for the island of Lastovo, not the municipal court in Korcula. The Korčula municipal court has a total of about 900 cases annually, meaning total litigation and fines, from 900 to 90, concerns the area of Lastovo. So far, there have been no problems related to the functioning of these items related to Lastovo. And so we don't think we need to change this system. Eventually, if the number increases, we can talk about the days of debate or some form.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12173	Thank you. Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12174	Thank you. Therefore, in the light of this amendment, I was not guided by the number of items, but only by the traffic connection of the island of Lastov and by comparing its traffic connection with Split and with Korčula. So let me tell you, here's when a citizen from Lastov wants to go to court, he has to go, if he goes on a ferry, then he goes at 4:30, and if he goes to the catamaran at 4.25. When he comes to Veli Luka, it's 5 o'clock in the morning or 6 o'clock in the morning, it doesn't matter, he's got to worry about another 50 and a few kilometers of transportation to Korcula. When it comes to Split, it is 7 o'clock, so the court opens at that time, then goes to court, can do other things and come back on the ferry at 3 o'clock. So this has nothing to do with the number of cases and nothing but making it easier for citizens to get a favor in court. So the court in Korčula is still much more uncomfortable than the court in Split. So, it's 80, 90 items, the island of Lastovo lives several hundred citizens, and I don't think accepting this amendment would in many ways disrupt global world flows for these 90 items. I'm very sorry that you didn't show understanding exclusively so that citizens could get to the court and ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12175	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. The 10th Amendment of MP Dragica Zgrebec and Nadice Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12176	We do not accept this amendment, we do not have the existence of the Municipal Court in Prelog, indeed the Municipal Court in Prelog, there are cases directly for one judge and therefore there is really no condition for the Municipal Court in Prelog to survive.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12177	Mrs. Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12178	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, this court, and when it was established a few years ago, had so many cases, but we suggest that the court remain, and the amendment actually extends the area of jurisdiction of this court, so that the Court of Justice in Prelog and the Court of Justice in Čakovec would have about the same number of inhabitants that they are gravitating, given that they have arranged the spatial conditions, so the city has given room for the court in Prelog, and that the Municipality court in Čakovec is in the building where the county court is, that it is overcrowded, practically no more free space at all. The building that was planned 10 years ago was never realised because no funds were provided in the state budget. We believe that this would actually solve the problem and the court, but also make it easier for citizens who would use one court or another, so I ask that votes be voted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12179	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. 11. The Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12180	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-23-0.u12181	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the proposal. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Areas and Seats of Courts. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This law was passed with 76 votes for, 36 against and 5 abstentions. We move to the 8th course in this last agenda, it is - Proposed Law on trainees in judicial bodies and judicial examination, with the Final Proposal of the Law, is an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 113 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. The proposal for an act has been adopted in boxes pursuant to Article 159. Rules of Procedure, an emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session, and the amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Mr Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
