ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u14687	Mr. President of the Parliament, since this is still the Croatian Parliament and it is a very important topic and there are probably clubs that want to say a few sentences, I suggest we agree that whoever is interested in speaking, that we time-limit it, appreciating time for us, our work, our task but also the time of the prime minister who came to the Croatian Parliament and that well.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u14688	Thank you very much. We think that, I think the situation is that everyone should do their job, actually we all do that and we ask that everyone does their job, the prime minister will address the Parliament, if it is possible to bring down the club reporting to, if possible to avoid it, I am to avoid it, but if you insist, then let it be limited address and it should be for the club representatives because everyone should do their job and we should finish today's session of Parliament, voting and so on. Then some clubs that need to turn around for five minutes, and I think we'll be able to handle it that way. Do we agree? If we agree, I give my word to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u14689	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and on my personal behalf, I would like to express my condolences to the families, friends of the journalists killed last night, as well as the "Nationals". We are just coming from a meeting of the National Security Council which the President and I, as co-chairs, invited not only members and the Presidency of the Assembly, but also all representatives, or presidents of Croatian political parties represented in the Croatian Parliament. First of all, in these moments, I want to say on behalf of all of us who were on the Council, on behalf of the Government, that Croatia and after this tragic murder yesterday, no matter how we characterized it, and we will characterise it as it ends the investigation, whether it is a mob shooting, murder, whether it is terrorism or some other qualification that Croatia will be a safe country, and that is the first message I want to send from this pay phone. There is no need, it has also been discussed, the introduction of a state of emergency or the conduct of an operation similar to that of a neighboring country of “sabre. ” But there are needs, and that's what we're all going to do together, instead of the state of emergency, we're going to introduce full-scale mobilization measures for all relevant state institutions. The National Security Council in its extended composition has also reached some conclusions, it says Purgatory, but I will read them here, as I have now, although the purgatory will be the final, final version. Since the first session of the Council and after the murder of Ivana Hodak, permanent coordination has been established between the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice, the police directorate, security intelligence agencies and, of course, the State's Attorney's Office. We include in this coordination and the Office of Presidents, National Security Advisors, in order to exchange daily information on what steps are being taken and what moves should be taken in the constant fight against crime in all its emerging forms from street violence through financial crime to drug trafficking and people to acts of typical terrorism. Police Director, these are the conclusions adopted unanimously at the National Security Council session, the Director of Police will, on a weekly basis, report directly to the President of the Republic and Prime Minister on how the work of police authorities is going and on the steps taken to make the police act better and more effectively under the current conditions. The National Security Council will be composed until further notice at shorter intervals and at least once a month in its regular composition alternating the Office of Presidents and Government spaces as usual and discussing only one issue of the fight against crime, mafia and terrorism, assessing what has been achieved in this fight so far and giving guidance for its further developments. Where necessary, and on the basis of a joint assessment by the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister at the National Security Council meetings, representatives of parliamentary parties or other civil servants and experts whose knowledge and experience can benefit from the efforts undertaken to establish permanent internal stability, security and peace throughout the country. Investigations and actions already being conducted and yet to be conducted must, at the same time with equal energy and equal determination, be focused on both direct perpetrators of criminal acts and acts of violence and on the commanders and those who draw the strings from the background where no area of life or any public activity will be and no individual must be excluded from those investigations and proceedings, regardless of whether they are current events or those from a long time ago which have long closed their eyes and where the roots of the situation that we are facing today are no doubt present. All investigations and proceedings must be extremely transparent and the public must be fully and adequately informed of them, respecting the need to achieve the ultimate objective in the interest of achieving the ultimate objective. the success of certain data which, which occur, are not published at the same time and even if their publication is temporarily and prevented all in order to succeed in the investigation. In the shortest time-consistent ministries are already working on it, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior will consider the possibility of amending the relevant legislation so that, without prejudice to fundamental human rights and freedoms, they create a basis for taking faster, more effective and comprehensive measures in the fight against crime and violence and with the ultimate aim of establishing an atmosphere of security and stability throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia. The processing of clarified criminal offences and their perpetrators and employers must be carried out as quickly as possible, but at the same time fully consciously and in accordance with the highest standards of European justice. These are the conclusions of the National Security Council in the extended composition. I would like to remind you that we have strengthened the Council and the decisions we have made and the conclusions we have reached at the previous meeting of the Council, which is that we are urgently and are now bound by these conclusions, that the law is urgently passed, not at the expense of the quality of the clear Law on Police Powers, Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure, Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code. To form also on the legal basis and DNA collection of convicts. To go in as fast and efficient as possible to form a judicial academy. To establish the necessary departments on, for the trial of organised crime and corruption in this 4 large court; Zagreb, Osijek, Split, Rijeka. And to include more intensively state institutions especially the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration in countering organised crime and corruption. And before I move on to that part, I'm going to say that we're all calling on the power of judgment together, and this isn't interfering with the power of judgment right now, but we're calling on them to solve cases more quickly and efficiently. I have already made 1031 indictments in courts for organised crime and corruption here in the Croatian Parliament, and about 400 other cases that are being prepared. We expect the courts to solve these cases more quickly and efficiently. In this sense, the Minister of Justice has completed preparations, and in the framework of his powers and we will neither wait until Wednesday to do so yet, but rather will go before the new Rules of Procedure will be adopted to establish the USKOK share, departments in the county courts in Zagreb, Split, Rijeka and Osijek and the rules, it is a new document on the benefits of prisoners. When I spoke earlier about the part about financial activity, we want to do so and for the whole state administration to network the entire state apparatus, it is about networking so that the Law on Personal Identification Number can be applied to its full extent. And in that sense, we will include in this group that will have weeks and days of consultation and the Ministry of Finance, i.e. where applicable, the tax administration, customs, financial police or any other institution. At the same time, I would like to thank the presidents of the parliamentary parties. Last night, Zoran Milanovic called me SDP president and thus showed me as others, both Josip Friscic and Đurđa Adlesic, Silvano Hrelja community in difficult times. We show everyone together, I also want to thank those who may have thought or intended but have not arrived today, but have shown the unity that is needed at a meeting of the National Security Council today. A community that exceeds the particular party interests. This isn't about party interests, this isn't about a particular political option. This is about Croatia, the safety of Croatian citizens, security on the Croatian streets from Zagreb to Vukovar, from Osijek to Pula. And that is why this unity and this joint determination to make Croatia a safe country and to deal with crime by the end will not be used by us in the government and in the executive and relevant institutions as an alibi. It's our responsibility, but it's good to have full support. And so I proposed to the National Security Council that, so there were different opinions but I will present both proposals which I have made, however, there is an opinion that this first proposal should not, I thought and I suggested that it be formed on the council that perhaps within the Croatian Parliament one "ad hoc" body composed of representatives of all parliamentary parties that will be either on a weekly basis or as we agree on the results reported not only of this investigation, not only these two cases I mean yesterday's tragedy and the murder of Ivana Hodak but all unsolved cases. Or that, but since we have a Committee on National Security and Internal Policy then there is the opinion that we do not need such a "ad hoc" committee. I accept that, too. And I have suggested as a second variant that we intensify, we have so far met the presidents of all parliamentary parties regardless of the parliamentary majority or minority to be, and that I and if the President of the Republic should be with me to call on the presidents of all parties and inform them about how the investigation is going and how the fight against crime is going. I would also like to take advantage of this opportunity and say that the changes that have come and supported the Croatian Parliament and those who have not voted for the new ministers but have shown their trust in their work, I would like to say that, that two cases have been solved. One who, for a few months, pressured all of us and the Croatian public for about 6 months, primarily the family of young Luke Ritz, that the case was resolved and that the murder was solved in the Sparrow that took place several days ago. We cannot talk about the details at this time, but it is certain that in a day or two, when the procedure ends with the Croatian public, they will communicate who is the killer of Mr. Mr. Mrvell who was killed in Vrapč. Ladies and gentlemen, I finally think that this is a time in which, there have been various and media and various proposals, but we believe that there is no time regardless of the severity and tragedy that has occurred in both cases, that there is no reason for any state of emergency, but that there is reason for the extraordinary and full mobilization of all relevant state institutions and that is what the Prime Minister can do here in front of the High House and promise. No one can sleep peacefully after this in Croatia in a criminal mile. All state institutions will strongly enter into the fight in this final account. We will not allow Croatia to become an insecure country, that Zagreb or any other city or municipality or place is insecure for our inhabitants and since I have heard some statements by European leaders about whether this or not will prevent our journey to the European Union or be an obstacle. It could be an obstacle if we didn't deal with it if we didn't investigate this all the way. But surely this tragedy no matter how severe it can be and there will be no obstacle for Croatia to join the European Union. It will only be unfortunately repeated because there has been another additional incentive to finally deal with everything we do not want in Croatia. And that is why I am sure that in the coming times, and even in the days ahead, we will properly inform our colleagues in the European Parliament, the European Commission and the Member States, and the less important for them, the more important it is for our citizens to show that it is about the determination of all state institutions to put an end to such crimes and crimes. I express my gratitude to all those who came from last night to this morning for the support of all the institutions and I call on the Croatian Assembly for this fellowship, which has already been expressed by the leaders of parliamentary parties and I thank you for this community.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u14690	Thank you very much to the Prime Minister, Mr. Ivy Sanader. And now Mr. Zoran Milanovic, SDP president and parliamentary representative. Here you go. The president of the club too.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u14691	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, Prime Minister, members of the government. You're calling for a final reckoning, and I'm calling for an endless reckoning. Because what's happening just can't take it anymore. It takes strong will, impudence, determination to put an end to it. And I can think of a sentence from one of Winston Churchill's historic speeches saying that everyone has a day, but that someone's day lasts longer. Now what we have to do is that this black day lasts as short as possible, at least through winter solos, and everything else is a long, warm summer for Croatia. You have a majority in the Parliament, you have instruments for legislative and any other innovation, you have an existing framework that, by our deep conviction, has been giving opportunity, a framework and a swing of action so far. But if it takes more, if it's more sustainable within our constitutional order not to touch any rights, though I said freedom has no price, but sometimes it has a price, safety sometimes has a price. If this is a condition, SDP support is a priority and has always been and will never be questioned. You have a sword to express figuratively, saber, you have a wallet. You've chosen associates who are good, but at the end of the day, short or long, Solstice or Equinox, polar night or polar day, it takes will, will, impudence to those who do these things that destabilize not our order. Because it's not a matter of order, it's not a state of emergency, it's not a threat, but it's a threat to the feeling. Something we've been taking for all these years for granted has been compromised. The way of life is threatened, and the way of life is a highly sensitive plant. The feeling that you can walk freely in your city, the feeling from my youth that Dubrava is as safe as the center of the city, that the Black Man is the same as the Cross. This in Zagreb, and I speak because this happened in Zagreb, because by birth and by life, Zagreb was not possible before. I'm not gonna tell you who's next. I believe no one's next. I believe I will no longer have to contact you on this occasion and in this atmosphere. The SDP Club and I, personally who attended the National Security Council meeting, are making our contribution to resolve this difficult situation, to make this an infinite state of mind, so not of the current account because this did not occur overnight. In that sense should you say whether or not we have spoken in recent weeks and months and where we stand you have our support at this time, but that is your will, your strength, your determination, your impertinence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u14692	Thank you very much, Mr. Zoran Milanovic. And now the word has been answered by Mrs. Vesna Pusic. Here you go. President of the HNS Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u14693	I thank Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. In a crisis like this, the consensus is good. We need a consensus, but we need to know the content of that consensus that we agree on here. All the structural measures that the prime minister has talked about today and that we have talked about in this House concerning institutional reforms and amendments to the law are good and important and should be implemented. But it's not enough. In this regard, the situation is too serious and too acute to address only changes in institutional arrangements by introducing new institutions and introducing new laws. That's necessary, but not enough. Something needs to be done right now. I am convinced, since we who live in this city and this society only know from conversations that there are leaders, key mob people in this country. I'm sure the state's attorney's office has much more concrete knowledge of that. And we believe in the HNS club that it's crucial that it reacts immediately and that based on the knowledge the state's attorney's office has has, these people are being located, that the talks they need are being held, because without that, without urgent intervention, we cannot achieve this goal. The public should not be informed of who this applies to. Only VONS may be notified, but such measures should be taken. We believe in the HNS club that the Prime Minister and the Ministers of Justice and Home Affairs are due to brief this House on Wednesday on what measures have been taken from today to Wednesday in concrete moves. Not specific people. This is a matter of course in the interest of the investigation that needs to remain within the institutions involved, but concrete moves that are being taken from today to Wednesday. Otherwise, changes in legislation and changes in institutions will not achieve the goal we need at the moment. That's why the HNS club is looking for a consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u14694	Thank you very much to Mrs. Representatives Vesni Pusic. It's on behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u14695	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Ministers, the Gentlemen Representatives. Shortly before VONS, now Croatian Parliament then Croatian Government, Croatian policy orders Croatia will be a safe country, Croatia does not surrender, Croatia simply cannot win. As I said on VONS a little while ago, I read this murder of Hodak and Pukanic, whom we all made fun of as a man who, for God's sake, put a gun to his temple, pulled the trigger and missed. I can also just tell him from this place I'm sorry. What's the mob just telling us about these murders? Let us go, let us do as we've done so far, that we can continue to invest, spend, build, crash, I don't know how to shop because as you can see, we can get to anyone. If you do not touch us, it is their message, neither will we. But we have to tell everyone, it just can't go away. One who destroys the safety of this country, our children, our mothers, women and so on cannot pass and should say we are not afraid, perhaps we are afraid, some more mothers may cry, but we simply have no choice at this time. I said this morning after this pay phone, Mr. Shakespeare repeated it on VONS, neither did he take my idea, nor did I take his mind, the shot at Miss Hodak in any way was a message to the prime minister, the shot at Mr. Pukanic was kind of a message to the president. The mafia in this country is creating chaos. She's trying to go to institutions, that's their goal. I'm saying no one kills for nothing. There's a goal. He wants to tear down institutions. Let's not give these institutions and the bad government in the crisis is better than no government. The mob's goal is chaos. Today this is happening in Zagreb, seven, 15 days ago in Medulin near Pula, all the luck that the police prevented those who were planning to set up an explosive device in Rijeka, maybe tomorrow something will happen in Osijek, Slavonski Brod, I don't know Varazdin or anywhere else. This is not the time to bring down institutions, to bring down authorities, this is the time, as we have just heard of a full political consensus. I'm sure the underworld won't give up. It will defend itself, it will retaliate. The harder we move towards them, the harder they'll be. Why? Because they may feel maybe for the first time in a long time that something concrete has started to happen in this country and they are afraid of it and that's why they're nervous and that's why they might be shooting more at this time than they've ever shot before. They also thought that there would be an additional decomposition on our political scene, that Croatia would step into new shifts for these benches, new shifts of ministers and so on, and that would mean blockade, it did not happen, and that is the strongest message that we can send to the Croatian public today that Croatia does not share. I said what the American ambassador told me yesterday. Well, Mrs. Karamarko, Mr. Shimonovic didn't get a chance, and this entanglement now needs to give them and everyone else a chance. There can be no position on this either, there can be no opposition. There's no more authority of the opposition. We're all one thing, because as Mr. Ostojić just told me, we can all be ideal targets in some way. Croatia, I agree you do not need an emergency, but one extraordinary engagement for all, certainly yes. The destruction of not, the community yes, and it will not be easy, it will not be easy because the mafia will certainly not stop, but after every blow that hurts will become weaker and the consensus in this assembly and among Croatian citizens will make it weaker on the other hand, and the institutions will grow stronger. And we'll all be able to do it together later. It will be difficult, but eventually Croatia will also win, although it is clear to everyone that what was left to do 10, 15 or 18 years cannot be compensated in 2, 3 or 4 months.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u14696	Thank you to Mr. President of the IDS Club, Mr. Caine. Mr. Josip Friscic, president of the Croatian Peasant Party and vice president of the House. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u14697	Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We are certainly too often in the last few days behind these speakers to express compassion with families, friends, acquaintances of those who have been killed in the streets, those whom many say are vices, that they are vices about what is happening and what could happen. Surely all of us together and our public all follow it, but also look for an answer in which way and how we will respond. And that is why I would like to say immediately in the introduction that the cube of the Croatian Peasants' Party supports all these conclusions that we have agreed together today, but also through this debate, and also by addressing the prime minister, we are aware that this bitter fruit that has now been put before us is being harvested from a tree that has not been fucked for a long time, and it is now up to us that these branches that give and produce such fruits are being broken. For that we need both strength and will and determination and unity. And that's why I'm also advocating what the Prime Minister here said today, which we talked about last night, and that's the assessment. There are many who speak this is a time when a state of emergency should be introduced. No, gentlemen, that would mean surrender. The capitalisation of the legal organs and bodies we have established and of which action we expect. We need it, and we will support extraordinary activities, because this is the kind of time it takes. But in order for such activities to be carried out, we need both unity and determination to support these activities, because surely one of the principles of functioning, or by which not only does our overall political democratic scene work is that if one doesn't die, the others will not get caught. But these aren't areas where we should share ourselves by these principles if we don't want one day not to get all of us killed together. And that's why I support that, and that's part of the conclusion, that we open up a debate next week on all those proposals that we've heard about today and that we want to definitely bring together, adopt and create assumptions for an even more efficient functioning. Because I also want to thank this occasion and the services, not all of this has been solved in four or five days, but now it's ended and solved the question of the murder of this young graduate and within three days of a murder that could have been stretched like a ribbon, etc. I believe that yesterday's, last night's crime will be quickly discovered and solved in an equally effective manner, and that's the best and most powerful messages. So I appeal, we put all our heads together, and when we send messages like that, then there's no doubt that they'll fall on fertile soil, and we'll all inherit the fruits of it together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u14698	Thank you very much to the president of HSS, Mr. Vice President Fristic. Mr. Vladimir Šišljagic, president of the HDSSB party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u14699	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The strategic interest of Croatia, one of Croatia's strategic interests, is security in any case and Croatia must remain a safe country. I'd say what happened last night, what's been going on in the last few months is actually a kind of culmination. The events in the Republic of Croatia since the war and here show that we have not been persistent enough no matter who was in the executive power, in sanctioning crime. In sanctioning war profiteers, in sanctioning during those savage conversions and privatisations, in sanctioning everything that's happened in public procurement and then individuals, and now it's individuals in organised crime, or organized crime and mafia, now they're quite financially powerful. And now organized crime and mafia are dealing with legal affairs. Legal affairs that happen in a variety of illegal ways. What message was what happened last night, not only last night, but two or three weeks ago, street killings, beatings, intimidation, beatings, blackmail and of course murder, not only in Zagreb, in Croatian cities. The message is that the message is of course organized crime and mafia. We're strong enough, here's what we can do. This is a threat to politics, a threat to the executive government, but also a clear warning to the media, don't dare write about crime, don't dare write about illegal acts and everything that happens in black in the area of crime, in the area of mob action. It's a message. Threatening and messages and media when we're talking specifically about last night's case. We could elaborate a lot on this, I would like to say that the Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja is absolutely supporting the fight against crime, corruption, organised crime, mafia, executive government in the Republic of Croatia. But it is up to you who spend and who have instruments, that you consistently, resolutely and ultimately participate in this struggle. We have no opposition to these instruments, but you will also have support here in the Croatian Parliament as regards the HDSSB, of course, in everything you intend to do in the area of the judiciary, in amendments and additions to the law, but you are determined to oppose it because there is also crime in the judiciary, both in politics and in the police and in other institutions by individuals, not in general, by individuals and it should be sanctioned. The HDSSB Club gives full support to what was concluded at today's VONS session, which I took part in, but expects the executive to proceed consistently. And finally, I expect action these days. I have to say in person, I expected to read or hear in the morning on the news that all the Croatian cities are, and according to the information the police have, that people have been detained, that their personal accounts and accounts of the company they operate in and everything that is actually in the works of the police under existing and valid laws are possible. Therefore, cut off financial flows or cut off crime, organised crime and the mafia, and we'll have a pretty good result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u14700	Thank you to the president of the HDSSB, Mr Vladimir Šišljagic. Mr. Milorad Pupovac, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u14701	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister. My colleagues and colleagues. It's not possible to say anything special new that we haven't said in the past few days and weeks, but I'd like to say three things on behalf of the SDSS club. First thing, to repeat our support for the government's efforts to adjust its mechanisms for better action in a series of aspects of our lives and expectations of our citizens, so we do so both at this opportunity and at this particularly sensitive moment for our entire public and of course for what our role is here in the Parliament. Another thing I'd like to say, aware that I'm not going to say anything new, but that I'm just going to add to my words what many before me have already said, including the Prime Minister. We have an obligation to regulate our country. And we need to prepare ourselves for some kind of long march, for some kind of long walk to arrange our state institutions. Some of it will be done in accordance with the urgency of the current circumstances, and some of it will be done both by them and everyone else in the government and by us in the time ahead. There should be no illusions that it is possible to do so within 24 hours, but that we should show determination every day of today that we are attached to this noblest goal that we can be attached to, anyway. And the third thing I would like to say, saving time, is that when we've already decided on some kind of gathering, for some kind of consensus, then the second and most important next task is actually to see what it is that needs to be done that political pluralism is really democratically effective, so that it's not just a confrontation and what measures it is, which areas we're going to give the government unreserved support to show its actual and effective results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u14702	Thank you, Mr. Milorad Pupovac. It's the president of the HDZ Club, Mr. Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u14703	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The moment we are in, we agree absolutely, and we are in the club of the Croatian Democratic Community, it is not extraordinary, it is not a crisis, but it is a difficult one. But in Croatia, in this young country, we are used to difficult conditions. These difficult conditions have marked our history since the war on here. What's so hard about today? It's hard to see that in the first step of all our postwar arrangements of our country, organized crime has been imposed. An organized crime that sends stronger and stronger messages from day to day. We thought the scariest message was the murder of a young girl who was completely innocent in the most brutal way. Yesterday's event, I'd say, is another step forward. Two journalists were killed. People who carried what was happening were killed. The voice that informs, the one that must be absolutely spared in the democratic world, any kind of repression and rudeness. Two journalists because they were passing information and news. So it's an extra weight to these organised crime actions that need to be answered. What kind of answer? Well, here he comes. As in all the difficult moments of our short history we have found what is one and only, the most important framework, and that is the community in actions, it is the temporary burial of its small private or larger party interests. Emphasis in the first plan of state interest. That's what happened in the war, and that's why we got out of that situation successfully. In the postwar period, we also have a brilliant example of community. This is a major task of accession to the European Union. Without a minimum consensus among the parties, there would be no successful road that will eventually prove to be crucial to Croatia's future. This is the third, I'd say, difficult task and I'm glad there's a desire for consensus on it, too. Not in the sense of forgiving someone's mistakes, but in terms of supporting the current government, because we chose it with the majority of votes to implement and solve this crisis in terms of constructive contributions to this work and, of course, constructive criticism. That is why I am encouraged yesterday's move by Mr Zoran Milanovic, the SDP president who showed that we are on a good track. We've got construction, we've got chains with a series of linkages that can do it well. The weak link needs immediate repair. A thousand and 60 cases in court, says that one part of that chain works well, 300 new cases that are already almost in court, also works well. If some link doesn't work well with the common forces, we can fix it. We at the Croatian Democratic Community club, give full support to this attitude and believe that this is the main and only thing organised crime is afraid of. They wanted to separate us, they didn't make it. This has been repeated in our history in even more difficult circumstances than these. Their biggest blow is this very day, and these recent developments from the government's constructive proposals, through the National Security Council, the government's co-operation with the president of the country, the additional blow, and that's what they're most afraid of, is that they haven't been able to break us down, but that we're going to solve this difficult situation together. With that message, the Croatian Democratic Community club gives full support to such an approach and we are ready to contribute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u14704	Thank you to the president of the HDZ Club, Mr. Andrija Hebrang. It's Mr Furio Radin, president of the National Minority Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u14705	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, the Club of National Minorities joins the compassion of the Pukanic family we knew, but also of the Franic family. Was there a terrible act yesterday, and we also think that it is, in fact, probably the most difficult thing that has happened so far. Although other things are particularly difficult. The National Minorities Club welcomes the unity of parties in the fight against organised crime, but also the Prime Minister's decision not to suspend human rights in this fight, that means not to be in an extraordinary situation. Because any suspension of basic human rights, and under such temptation, we can truly come after such acts, actually represents pain, is the defeat of democracy and the victory of the mafia, or organised crime. But mobilising an institution is something that is understandable in itself and we support it. We think it was something that had to happen a long time ago. That includes what you mentioned to Mr. Prime Minister and what the President of the Republic mentioned in his statement today and stricter financial control. Don't let anyone think that he's going into his privacy, that his human rights are being violated if it's being sought in certain cases from the origin of his money. We support the meaning and what the President of the Republic has said, because the enough capital has moved in this country and used it so far without any control. If anything bothers you, it's organically affecting crime and the mob around the world, then it's touching their wallet. Every time he responds to it, he uses it every time in the fight against the mafia and against crime. Also, Mr. Karamarko, people who are in special danger should be far better, stricter and more seriously protected. No threat of violence must be underestimated, let alone the assassination of Mr Pukanic. We don't understand how the late Mr. Pukanic was taken down. One current Italian minister for 15 years, meaning 14 years when he was not a minister has 24 hour protection because he had one single threat to the Red Brigades, because it was taken seriously. We believe that protection must be far, far more stringent and generally protected and in people who especially need it. And finally, we hope that today's determination that we welcome will also remember emotionally and intensely and tomorrow, if I talk about political emotion and political determination, if so will be the support of the National Minorities Club, will be complete and further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u14706	Thank you very much to Mr Furia Radin, president of the National Minority Club. And now it's Mr. Antun Korošec, president of the HSLS Club, HSU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u14707	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, the Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Minister. Let us, on behalf of the club of respected colleagues and colleagues, join in on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and HSU, join in these opinions not out of the court, but really out of sincere need that here all parties and all MPs in this House demonstrate community as one message to the public that this really is not just a principled community, but a real and true community in the fight against crime, against the mafia and against the evils that it brings with it. The club of HSLS and HSU representatives fully supports the conclusions of the VONS session, and I find it particularly important to highlight what Prime Minister Sanader said as a special value of full mobilization of all institutions and the very quick launch of mobilisation measures to combat organised crime, corruption, mafia. The cooperation of all institutions and the coordination of these institutions to that end, regular reports to the President of the State and to the Prime Minister on the fight against terrorism, the mafia, organised crime, the rapid and effective processing and, certainly, the extremely important timely day-to-day public reporting with a fundamental objective in order to restore security at all and to restore the sense of security needed by all citizens of this country. In this behind this payphone should be said and commended to this community that we have demonstrated, I hope truly and really hope at the return of that security and I want to say clearly and responsibly, whenever there was a commonity in any matter then there was success. Communion gives birth to success, unity when we respect each other always brings results, but community self-determined if we demean ourselves, and we don't respect it doesn't bring that result. But I think that respect is indeed not only today, but also in the last debate in distrusting the government and the Prime Minister, that it has indeed been shown that the debate is being conducted in a civilized and tolerated way. In this regard, on behalf of the HSLS and HSU, I would like to say unequivocally that all these measures need to strengthen democracy, they need to strengthen system institutions, they need to strengthen expertise at all, and in this particular case, in this case, special expertise in the judiciary and the police today. Strengthening the system is what the mob and organised crime don't want, they want a state of emergency, they want an authoritarian leader, as an environment that suits the mafia and crime. In doing so, I would also like to say, let's not speak to the Government and let's not ask anyone responsible in this system for hasty solutions, and for this speaker, this has now been the case because hasty solutions do not deliver results. Here, thank you for your patience, we fully support the proposed measures, the conclusions made by Prime Minister Sanader and we want a lot of success in implementing this action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u14708	Thank you Mr. Antun Korushec, president of the HSLS Club, HSU. And ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, it's a good practice that, since there are independent representatives, to allow them to address on such occasions, so here's Mr. Dragutin Lesar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u14709	Thank you very much, Mr. President, certainly what is happening in Croatia, this last few days, especially last night, in my opinion, is an organized attempt to destabilise the state and society as a whole. And it's good to have organized and shared answers as one of the methods and means. The choice of a moment, a place, a way and a person, of those who stand behind it, sends a message that they do not intend to stop. And I'm not sure their next choice will be someone from a political mile. And that is why it is terribly important that when Ministers Simonovic and Karamarko come before us on Wednesday, that three things are certainly clear, concrete, but also this consensus from them we hear and we accept. Priority is a move, which is both consequences and only a matter of profession and one and the other. Priority is the number of people the new system obviously needs. And what is ours, that already this year, and certainly in the budget for next year, we provide obviously far more resources for police, justice, USKOK, DORH and all, because now it has been proven that these services are at the beginning of the fight chain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u14710	Thank you very much, Mr. Dragutin Lesar. Ladies and gentlemen, we have here a proposal for a conclusion, which was submitted by the Club of Representatives of the CNS on these further actions of ours. So I ask the Prime Minister to show himself on this proposal for a conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u14711	So, with all due respect to the club of HNS and Ms. MPs Vesni Pusic, I think that this proposal that you presented to the Croatian Parliament, and here on behalf of the Government, and I am saying, I put it in my opening statement that the ministers, we also said on the National Security Council, would conclude that Ministers Šimonović and Karamarko on behalf of the Government, the two of them, if necessary and someone else would come before we predicted them, and that was somewhere on November 12th, there was a deadline that we were in the Assembly, which you brought to the Parliament and we accepted in the Government, so the proposal is that those two were not waiting, but that on Wednesday at the beginning of the meeting, if the Assembly accepted, there were reports of measures and everything they took. Well, it seems to me that this proposal of yours is too high.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u14712	Thank you, Prime Minister. So, really, we're the 10th, I'm going to give an explanation, on the 10th of this month we've come to the conclusion that within a month, they're going to turn to concrete proposals and measures of the two ministers, and that would be about 10. 11. Yesterday, the Prime Minister announced that it would be sooner. So, that's how it was discussed at VONS. And I don't think there's any need to draw any specific conclusions, the ministers will address the 29th exact date, as you wrote here, so on Wednesday. Because I think we should have a session of 29th, 30th and 31st that would have concluded, so we can continue this session on Tuesday 28th, so 29th and 30th. On Friday we wouldn't have a session because the Day of the Dead, etc., we all have our own human and other obligations, so instead of the 31st session, we're on the 28th, 29th and 30th. 29 would be ministers, according to the Prime Minister and 2nd, if necessary to address these measures to the Croatian Parliament. Is Mrs. Pusic enough to explain this to me? ... Would you like to add something else? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u14713	Thank you very much, Mr. President. With all due respect, Mr. Prime Minister, you haven't, we've been waiting for you to report to the beginning of the session, you haven't said you'd come to report on the measures that have been taken, and that's why we've put into the procedure the conclusions we've prepared. As far as the HNS Club is concerned, a report to be submitted by the government, resolution ministers next week in the Assembly, should be a specific report on what will be taken from today to next week. This does not exclude the programmes and policies that we have obliged the government to present to the Parliament within 30 days of the election of interior and justice ministers in the government. Therefore, it refers to policies that are longer-term, this Wednesday refers to moves that are being taken directly. As far as the HNS club is concerned, if the government is obliged to report to the Parliament, so early next week's session, about what it did from today until then on these jobs and preparations for further work, we accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u14714	Thank you very much. So, the ministers, if necessary, will address those which we have talked about and others to the Croatian Assembly about these operational and emergency measures, but this does not exclude the possibility that ministers should not put out one longer-term programme, etc., which we will listen to and probably accept on Wednesday. So we can... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Go ahead, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u14715	Okay. Thank you to Mrs. Representatives for these still explaining words. I think now it's about making a deal here what are we gonna do? I drew conclusions from the National Security Council which were unanimously accepted in which, among other things, it was said that we, instead of one inter-party body, would report to the presidents of parliamentary parties. It was an agreement at the National Security Council on this investigation. So you are proposing not to do so but to report to the Croatian Parliament what has been done since today i.e. from last night from the very act of murder until Wednesday to report to the Croatian Parliament. It's a new proposal that was not discussed at the National Security Council. I personally believe that it is enough and these are the conclusions to inform party representatives, whether it is on the Committee on National Security and Internal Policy or the presidents of the parties at the invitation to my office in the Government or, secondly, we have two, two possible approaches. In any case, ministers will address the meeting at the start of Wednesday when it comes to all the measures taken in these portfolios. That'll turn around. Maybe you can, maybe you can include what you can say to the public at that point, which is also possible to say about itself, the course of the investigation itself, and then we'll reconcile both, both things. Is that how we accept it? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u14716	I think it's okay. ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u14717	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, it is to inform the Parliament because the public is also being reported through the Parliament. To report on these... /The speaker has been disabled./ about the type of measures taken from today to the middle of next week and of course everything that would compromise the investigation is not public, but before the Parliament because through it is reported in one I would say the most appropriate way and the public. [[Intruder: Please be sure to engage.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u14718	Thank you. It was accepted that the ministers and someone else might turn around on Wednesday, and that's how we consumed what we were talking about. If we agree? Thank you very much. Please continue the session, have you answered? You're not.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19376	We're moving on with the session. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Defence, the Committee on Environmental Protection, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary, Reverend Nikola Ruzhinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19377	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. Here you are today facing the proposal for a bill to confirm the sub-regional intervention plan for the sudden pollution of the Adriatic Sea of larger scales. So it happens just at a time when there was a certain pollution yesterday, which, fortunately, is not these great proportions, and hopefully we'll be able to resuscitate it very quickly. Otherwise, the Republic of Croatia is a party to the Convention on the Protection of the Marine Environment and the Coastal Area of the Mediterranean, signed in Barcelona in '75. A year. It's so-called. The Barcelona Convention. In 2003, the Republic of Croatia ratified one of the protocols that is part of the Barcelona Convention. It is a Protocol on the cooperation and prevention of pollution from ships. The Republic of Croatia, the Italian Republic and the Republic of Slovenia in the field of protection of the sea and coastal areas cooperate through the Joint Commission for the Protection of Waters of the Adriatic Sea and coastal areas. It's so-called. A trilateral commission. The Trilateral Commission, therefore, concluded between Slovenia, Italy and Croatia that a sub-regional plan for intervention in the sudden pollution of the Adriatic is needed to enable the agreement to intervene and be ready to react together in the sudden pollution of the Adriatic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19378	Just to inform the Parliament, I have submitted the request of the clubs to the prime minister and the prime minister will address this High House in the Croatian Parliament after the meeting of the VNS. Go ahead, move on. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19379	It is therefore a joint response to these sudden pollution of large scales where a mechanism is in place for national authorities in Croatia, Italy and Slovenia to coordinate, combine their actions and jointly respond to sudden pollution in any of these countries so that they can be made available to funds available in another country and one such joint action shall be established to minimise the damage to the minimum possible level. At the 14th meeting of the Barcelona Convention in November 2005, this agreement was signed in Portorož, which is the subject of today's law, confirming agreements covering the area of responsibility of the parties to the agreement. An agreement relating to the transport of ships and aircraft, therefore access to other country vessels and aircraft within a very short period of time, if it concerns intervention in the neighbouring country, type of assistance, system of communication, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19380	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? As far as I can tell, no. I'm opening a debate. First, it's a club debate. on behalf of the HSS Club, Honorary Representative Zdravko Kelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19381	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. The HSS representative club will support the confirmation of the Agreement on sub-regional action plan for prevention, preparedness for and response to sudden pollution of the Adriatic Sea with a view to establishing a mechanism of mutual cooperation by which the competent national authorities in Croatia, Slovenia and Italy would cooperate to prevent and react to the sudden pollution of the sea affecting the territorial sea, coasts and related interests of one or more of these countries. In the HSS, we believe that the rules of all the Adriatic countries need to be leveled, and we need to work on their joint declaration. Finally, it should work to adopt a Adriatic Convention as set out in the Baltic or Black Sea Convention. We are in the HSS in favour of declaring the Adriatic a particularly sensitive area. This means the introduction of additional safeguards covering the mandatory application system for ballast waters. Mandatory management of ballast waters before boarding the Adriatic and banning the exchange of ballast waters in the Adriatic for ships coming from other marine areas. In all this, the most important measure is to ban any changes to any ballast coming from other seas to the Adriatic, and we hope that the International Maritime Organisation will accept this because it will be a major contribution to the protection of the Adriatic Sea. It is our view that the inequality of regulations in the countries of the region benefits shipowners who sail the routes where the weakest regulation and protection is, and that is in our part of the Adriatic. About 7,000 ships in international navigation annually come to Croatia's port. 539 yachts and 103 thousand 945 boats were registered in Croatia, and the annual Republic of Croatia visits 54 thousand foreign yachts. About 7,000 ships with dangerous cargo pass the Adriatic on a yearly course towards Croatian and Slovenian ports. About 300 search and rescue actions at sea of port captains and outposts a year. About 70 million tons of oil is transported annually by the Adriatic. About 90 ships from the Paris Memorial blacklist enter the Croatian ports. In the last 15 years, 174 major traffic accidents have occurred on the Adriatic. According to satellite analysis, the total average amount of oil stains every year in the Adriatic corresponds to the triple surface area of our largest island, i.e. a thousand 228 square kilometers. There are alarming contaminants as a result of the washing of tanks. Despite this Adriatic Sea, it is still one of the most preserved European seas. This sea of Croatia makes not only a coastal land, but it gives it a chance to use this unique phenomenon to become more and more conscious of its citizens and indeed a maritime country open to the world. This beautiful sea, however, represents a great commitment and responsibility for the present and all future generations to protect and promote its purity, flora and fauna, landscapes and submarines, in short all its natural resources and economic advantages. It is the duty of the Republic of Croatia to protect this sea in accordance with the requirements of international rights and European standards, and to extend its care and protection. its jurisdiction up to the agreed divided line of the environment in relation to neighbouring Italy, which also relys on its legislation on the environment line as a basic criterion for demarcation. I regret to remind you that Croatia has once again given up the application of not only the fishing component of its right to an exclusive economic zone, but also its ecological dimension, although none of it should have asked it to take part in the protection of the Adriatic Sea against pollution caused by the harmful spilling of natural oil and other dangerous substances of washing out tank ships. Now that Italy's neighbouring two years ago without any consultation with other coastal Adriatic countries, has adopted its Environmental Protection Belt Act and cited a baseline criterion to final agreement on demarcation, it can be expected that illegal harmful spills occur more frequently in the Croatian part of the Adriatic, a part that is more ecologically complex and more sensitive and which represents a significant source of good and income for Croatian citizens and for the Croatian state itself. Once again, I will repeat that the Croatian Peasant's Club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19382	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, the esteemed representative of Gary Capelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19383	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of an Agreement on sub-regional action plan for prevention, preparedness for and reaction to sudden pollution of the Adriatic Sea in greater proportion to the Final Proposal of the Law. The Adriatic Sea as a semi-closed sea is exposed to a constant and increasing risk of pollution due to increased maritime transport, transport of raw oil, old tankers to a refinery on the northern Adriatic, growth of nautical tourism, pollution from land, etc. Therefore, any solution to the issue of possible pollution of the Adriatic Sea must be sought in a carefully balanced approach between the necessity of environmental protection and the need to ensure the sustainability of maritime transport. I must mention that 90% of the world's trade in goods is taking place in the sea, which is ultimately one of the most environmentally acceptable forms of transport. In order to protect the sea, international regulations have been adopted, including for the Adriatic, the Convention on the protection of the marine environment and the coastal area of the Mediterranean is of particular importance. The 1976 Barcelona Convention and its Protocol on cooperation in preventing pollution from ships and in the event of a threat to the pollution of the Mediterranean Sea in Malta in 2002. The Republic of Croatia has ratified the Barcelona Convention and, in 2003, has ratified a protocol on the cooperation and prevention of pollution from ships and in cases of threats to the prevention of pollution of the Mediterranean Sea. In 1976, 16 countries of the Mediterranean and the European Communities signed the Convention for the Protection of the Mediterranean Sea, etc. The Convention of Barcelona, which was updated in 1995, was amended on the Convention for the Protection of the Marine Environment and the Coastal Area of the Mediterranean. The Barcelona Convention constitutes a legal framework for the work of the Mediterranean Action Plan, which is the first in a series of regional seas programmes to ensure quality lives for the inhabitants of the Mediterranean Sea, and to establish and strengthen mutual cooperation and bring the management strategy into line with the common natural resources. The Adriatic countries, i.e. the Republic of Croatia, Slovenia and Italy have drawn up their national intervention plans for sudden sea pollution. It should also be noted that these three Adriatic states in the field of protection of the sea and surrounding areas cooperate in quality through the work of the mixed Commission for the Protection of Adriatic Sea Water and coastal areas against pollution. Their special focus was on the Adriatic Sea survey, cooperation and direct mutual assistance in countering incident pollution and special protection. The Ministry of Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development has constantly encouraged co-operation with neighbouring Adriatic states to achieve optimal solutions for the Adriatic, and has made it possible to develop maritime transport, but with a high level of protection for the Adriatic. The annual Adriatic is over 5 thousand tankers, and by statistics, a thousand accidents occur. There are five times more maritime accidents on the Adriatic than on the world seas. And according to these surveys, the surface area of the Adriatic oil pollution is three times larger than our largest island of Cres. If we add this data to the Adriatic Sea, about 2.5 thousand tons of balance water will be released annually. These data, they encouraged the Republic of Croatia to head towards the world maritime organization and... the initiative to declare the Adriatic particularly sensitive marine area. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, in order to protect the Adriatic Sea more effectively in the event of sudden pollution of larger scales, and taking into account the obligations of contractual positions... The Conventions had to be drawn up a sub-regional plan covering all three Adriatic states, the Republic of Croatia, Italy and Slovenia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The sub-regional plan was developed as part of an initiative to create a sub-regional system for the entire Adriatic Sea. The text of the plan is drawn up with the technical assistance of the Regional Emergency Intervention Centre in the event of pollution of the Mediterranean Sea and the Mediterranean Action Plan, the United Nations Environment Programme. The purpose of the sub-regional plan is to establish a mechanism of mutual cooperation by which the competent national authorities in Croatia, Italy and Slovenia will coordinate and unite their actions in the field of prevention and response to sudden sea pollution affecting or affecting waters under their jurisdiction of the coast and related interests of one or more of these countries. Or accidents that cross the available ability to react to each of these countries individually. In order to minimise the risk of sudden sea pollution to a maximum extent, this law lays down policies and responsibilities in the area of preparedness for immediate and effective response, to sudden pollution of seas affecting or potentially affecting the areas of responsibility and/or the areas of interest of three interested countries, and to act in order to prevent such accidents. The law seeks to regulate the following issues, the scope of the cooperation of the competent authorities of the Parties in the field of preventing the sudden pollution of the sea, the extent of the cooperation of the competent authorities in the implementation of plans in cases of hazards at the operational level, the areas of responsibility of the parties to the agreement, the distinction of responsibility and the provision of the transfer of responsibility from one country to another, the establishment of the principle, which is very important, the command and maintenance of the link, and the establishment of an appropriate organisational form, the establishment of the type of assistance that can be provided and the conditions under which it will be provided, the identification of the notification and reporting systems. An operation to respond to the sudden pollution of the sea occurring within the area of responsibility of one party will be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the national intervention plan or party as set out in the text of the plan. The Agreement also provides for the additions to the Agreement, which shall specify in more detail the procedure for the operational implementation of the plan. These additions will later be drawn up after all three countries, Slovenia, Croatia and Italy produce and adopt updated national intervention plans that should be in line with the sub-regional plan of interventions to prevent preparedness for and react to the sudden pollution of the Adriatic Sea of larger scales. Certain parts of national plans, interventions, will become an integral part of this agreement. Therefore, the Democratic Community Club will support the proposal to pass this law by emergency procedure, uniting first and second readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19384	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, the esteemed representative Dino Kozlevac. He's not here. He's losing his right to debate. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Honorable Representative Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19385	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a law on the certification of a sub-regional plan for interventions to prevent preparedness to react to the sudden pollution of the Adriatic Sea needs to be adopted as soon as possible to prepare and amend existing laws and regulations to reduce the possibility of sudden pollution of the Adriatic Sea. Since the Republic of Croatia was among the first countries to ratify the Barcelona Convention in 1998, the Law on Confirmation of Amendments to the Convention on the Protection of the Mediterranean Sea against Contaminants and on the basis of the Protocol on the Prevention of Contamination of the Mediterranean Sea, Diversification of waste and other substances from ships and aircraft. On the trail of concerns about the protection of the Mediterranean, and since the Adriatic Sea is even more closed and shallow, and if we have in mind the dense transport of tanker, oil tanker in the upper part of the North Adriatic, it seems the logical concern of the three countries to further organise to reduce the sudden pollution to the least possible extent. This law lays down policy and responsibility in the area of preparedness for the current action on sudden sea pollution affecting the responsibility of three interested countries, and action to prevent such accidents. The law lays down the scope of cooperation in the implementation of the emergency plan, the area of responsibility of the signatories of the agreement, the transfer of responsibility from one country to another, the establishment of the principle of command and the maintenance of the relationship. All three countries have developed their national systems for preparedness and response to sudden sea pollution and have their national plans, interventions and personnel trained to combat oil and oil spills. A conscious threat that threatens if severe pollution occurs not only for the Adriatic Sea's ecological system but also for all economic activities and what these activities mean for all three countries, representatives of all three countries at meetings of the Regional Emergency Action Centre in the event of pollution of the Mediterranean Sea have begun working on the creation and adoption of a sub-regional plan of interventions covering the Adriatic Sea. This initiative has already received support under the Adriatic-Ionian Initiative, its Round Table for Environmental Protection and Sustainable Development, for a sub-regional plan of interventions that all three countries have started to build together have requested financial assistance from the Regional Centre for Emergency Interventions of the Mediterranean Sea and the centre of funding needed for the project has been provided under its budget. At a meeting in Malta held in 2003, representatives of all three countries decided that the future plan should be based on a model developed by the Regional Emergency Intervention Centre and already adopted in other areas of the Mediterranean. The plan also included a section dealing with the prevention of accidents. The purpose of this intervention plan is to establish a mechanism of mutual cooperation within the framework of the Protocol which is part of the Barcelona Convention and in accordance with the obligations of the Contracting Parties to this Protocol, through which the competent national authorities in Croatia, Italy and Slovenia will cooperate to coordinate and unite their actions relating to preventing and reacting to sudden sea pollution. Influenced by the territorial seas, coasts and related interests of one or all three countries or by accidents that cross the available ability to react to each of these countries individually. Therefore, if we know that the Adriatic is particularly sensitive from the point of view of the conservation of the eco system and with a very slow change of water, it makes it particularly sensitive. That is why this agreement should be accepted because protection is never too much. All we can think of is an accident with a set-up ship not far from Pula. So the ship said the bouquet would have been a few miles from Pula and imagine now that we had this agreement. Fortunately, we found, the intervention was hasty and high quality and there was no major ecological disaster but if we had had had this agreement then it would not be just the problem of Croatia. That would be a problem for both Croatia and Slovenia and Italy. So you'd know who's in charge, how much, what resources we have, and it's certain that a more efficient way of preventing such a disaster would be, and that's why I'm going to support this bill, and I think it's a promotion because protecting me to tell the Adriatic that's particularly sensitive is never enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19386	Thank you. Dear Representative Dino Kozlevac. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Honorable representative Zvonimir Puljic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19387	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is listed as a value of interest to the Republic of Croatia and therefore has its special protection. Accordingly, the Republic of Croatia has signed the most important international Conventions on the Protection and Management of the Seas because we are aware that the Adriatic is exposed to an increasing risk of pollution and that constant care and control is necessary to reduce this risk but that it is necessary and organised and prepared reaction to any sudden sea cleaning involving equipment and trained personnel, plans and other means. The Republic of Croatia is a signatory of what I said earlier and for the reasons I cited "Agend 21", a programme for the 21st century covering the protection and management of the seas in point 17. The Barcelona Convention on the Protection of the Mediterranean and its 4 Protocols of 1976, 1980 of which is a particularly important Protocol on the protection of the sea against pollution from land. Then the "Marpol" Convention on the Protection of Seas against Contaminants from Ships and Airplanes from 1973, 1978, and the London Convention on the Disposal of Wastes to the Sea from 1972. United Nations Conventions on the Law of the Sea "Unclos" then the Mediterranean Action Plan as an integral part of the UNEP, a programme for the protection of the environment of the United Nations adopted in 1975 in Barcelona. Croatia is also a signator of the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment across national borders. The ESP Convention of 1991 ratified by the Law on the Confirmation of the Convention, April 1996. Conventions on the Control of Transboundary Waste and its Disposal, the Basel Convention. Then she is a signator of the 1994 Kretska Declaration, which provides a unique programme for the protection and optimal use of the Adriatic biodiversity along with the countries with which we share the Adriatic Sea. The countries with which we share the Adriatic Sea, the Italian Republic and the Republic of Slovenia have developed their national plans for intervention to prevent and react to sudden sea pollution and have formed their national systems, trained personnel and material resources for such situations. The necessity of cooperation and joint action has been achieved through the work of the Joint Committee on the Protection of Adriatic Waters and Coastal Areas against Contaminants. The mixed commission has so far been working on issues of a joint continuing survey of the Adriatic Sea. Then cooperation and mutual assistance in countering incident contaminants. Special protection of sensitive areas. The adoption of a common sub-regional intervention plan and the establishment of a separate navigation system, i.e. sailing routes, of the Adriatic Sea. The Mixed Commission then worked together to identify and combat pollution due to inadequate handling and disposal of solid or hazardous waste. The questions of ballast waters, the resolution of the most endangered areas, the cooperation in the implementation of development strategies with the purpose of preserving the value of the Adriatic and information activities. The text of the sub-regional plan contained in this legislative proposal, which, without that contribution, has only 5 articles, was agreed at a meeting of the Joint Commission in Portorož in May 2005. Since it is undoubtedly the benefit and need of such a plan, and the law that passes it and since it is no doubt the interest of the Republic of Croatia to bring it I will support this legislative proposal as my colleagues have said earlier.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19388	Thank you. Dear Representative Zivko Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19389	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It is therefore about the agreement of three countries – Italy, Slovenia and Croatia, about how to be prepared, both preventively and quickly reacting in the event of major pollution of the Adriatic Sea. It is immediately evident from this that any agreement with such a intent of praise is worthy. The value and importance of the clear Adriatic Sea for all three countries has high significance, and for our country, I would say has a priority over priorities. Each of these countries has its own national prevention systems as well as for sudden pollution. But it is an extremely important and joint mixed committee, because without co-ordinated continuous joint action in the event of a disaster, the consequences would be inconceivable. Again, I say we would be inconspicuous for all three countries, and for Croatia in particular, given the possible consequences for tourism and the importance of tourism in our country. In order to avoid sudden major pollution, and if God does not give rise to this proposal, the law prescribes the participation of the competent authorities of the parties in the agreement, the implementation of the plan in the event of danger, the responsibility of the parties, the way in charge and the maintenance of the links, the determination of the type of assistance, the determination of what is very important of the notification and reporting systems. Here, you'd say all the way to the funding system. So, there's not much to talk about and emphasize without any doubt. This bill should be adopted as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19390	Thank you. And we have a final word on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club for five minutes, the esteemed representative Dino Kozlevac. He's gone for the third time. He's losing his word. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote, pardon the motionors. Would you like a word? Here you go. Dear Secretary of State Nikola Ruzynski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19391	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I would like to thank the clubs and individuals who have supported the adoption of this important law. And I would like to say that we have received an amendment from the Legislative Committee which improves the text of the law in Article 3 and I would like to say that we support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19392	Thank you. I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19393	The final proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on sub-regional action plan for prevention, preparedness for and response to sudden pollution of the Adriatic Sea of larger scales. Emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 146. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. The proposer accepted the amendments at the session and became an integral part of the final proposal. I am voting on the final draft law confirming the Agreement on sub-regional action plan for prevention, preparedness for and response to sudden pollution of the Adriatic Sea. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that, unanimously with 113 votes, this law has been passed along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19394	We move to the seventh item of the agenda - Final proposal of the “Croatia for Children” Foundation, second reading, P.Z. No. 33 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. This law will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was held: the Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. You received the reports at the sessions. The amendment was submitted by representative Milanka Opačić. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Stjepan Adanic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19395	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen. In front of us is the Final Bill on the “Croatia for Children” Foundation. The basis for the adoption of laws, as you know, is the national population policy that this High House brought in 2006 and this is the area of child care, measure 10, where we are instructed to establish a non-profit foundation “Croatia for children” whose resources would contribute to the development of the preferredest trend and empowerment of families with a higher number of children. Here, the Government of the Republic of Croatia fulfils its commitment from the national population policy in 2006. The deadline for implementing this measure is 2008. So we're here in time, too. The objectives, the main objectives for the adoption of this law, first create spatial, human and other assumptions for the application of childcare and tailored to the different needs of parents and children, and the age of children. Furthermore, raise the quality of institutional and extra-institutional care for children. Ensure equal availability of services intended for children in the Republic of Croatia, strengthening social care for children, improving the quality of life of children from numerous families and promoting social care for children and families as the highest social values. The purpose of this law. It is primarily the provision of financial and service support in the family for child care, especially families with a number of children from the areas exposed to emigration as children from families exposed to the risks of poverty and social exclusion, and enabling children from these families to raise the quality of personal life that enables education and completion of studies, the use of educational, sports, cultural and other services that contribute to the strengthening of their personal competences and the acquisition of skills necessary for successful inclusion in the world of work and their independent life. What are the possible users of resistance based on this bill? These are primarily families with numerous children, families with children and children are exposed to the risks of poverty and social exclusion, families with children living in sparsely populated areas and areas away from educational, cultural, sports and other institutions and gifted children of parents who have no material opportunities to ensure further child development and education. According to the estimates of the family ministry, defenders and intergenerational solidarity, the total number of children who would fall under this foundation is according to our estimates is 20,000. What are the possible forms of support? It's very important for the prominent. These are support in money, such as one-time cash aid in certain unexpected family situations where a family is found such as multiple delivery, one or both family fosterers or more monthly support in the form of scholarships, scholarships or the like. Support in money for the purpose of ensuring further education and specialisation, the development of personal potential in sport, culture and the like outside the place of residence or family residence. Supports in nature, means the procurement of school equipment and other assistance necessary for the success of the child at school, the purchase of building materials and the equipment of the household with children who do not have the expected level of equipment of the house with the facilities of suitable care for children. For example, family assistance in the supply of furniture or teaching intended children, building sanitary space, plumbing, especially in rural and poorly populated areas, islands and the like. And support to ensure the use of relevant facilities for children and youth in cooperation with local self-government authorities and relevant institutions authorised to provide services to children and youth such as universities, educational institutions, cultural, sports, tourist institutions, associations of citizens and others. The bodies of the trust. The bodies of the foundation are primarily the board of directors and trustees. The Management Board shall appoint the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Minister responsible for Family 3 members, the Minister of Science, Education and Sports of one member, the Minister of Social Care of one member, the Working Body of the Croatian Assembly responsible for the family of one member, the Working Body of the Croatian Assembly responsible for the social care of one member. The term of office of members of the Management Board shall be four years with the right to re-election. It is very important to highlight the funding of the foundation. The Fund shall be financed from the revenue of gambling, in accordance with Article 17(5). The Act on Foundations and Foundations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and other incomes is revenue from assets, gifts and other incomes in accordance with the law. It is worth noting that the Government of Croatia's regulation on user-determining Quartets and how to distribute part of the gambling revenue in 2008, means published in the "National Journal" of the number 86/08 of Article 3(3), provides funds for the needs of the foundation 10 million and 450 thousand kuna. The revenue shall be allocated to a trust fund in accordance with this law and to the general acts of the Foundation. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19396	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, the distinguished representative of Zeljana Kalash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19397	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Today, as well as in the past few days, we MPs in the Parliament and the public have spoken to the media too much about security. Security is certainly important, I would dare say even necessary for the growth and development of the child. And we're all kind of always sensitive to the problem of kids and taking care of them. Today, in the context of the debate on the proposal for a law on the "Croatia for Children" Foundation, we are talking about security again. But this time about safety in improving the material and social safety of children. Under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, it is the duty of the state to protect motherhood, children and youth and to create social, cultural, educational, material and other conditions that promote the right to a decent life. Under the Convention on the Rights of the Child, States are bound by appropriate legislative and administrative measures to provide child with the protection and care necessary for his well-being, taking into account the rights and responsibilities of his parents or legal guardians and other persons legally responsible for the child. The national population policy adopted by this very House of Commons among other measures is also the establishment of this non-profit foundation "Croatia for Children" whose resources would contribute to the development of a desirable innovative trend and empowerment of families with a higher number of children. The aim of the establishment of this foundation as stated in the discussion materials on this point is to sensitize social needs and raise the quality of family life of multiple families that would be achieved through co-financing of individual programmes such as summering for families with more children, school trips, sports meetings, visits to cultural institutions and events, scholarship of gifted children, extracurricular activities, purchase of information equipment and programs, etc. It follows that the primary objective of implementing this measure is to focus on the immaterial forms of family support with a higher number of children and on providing material forms of support aimed at gifted children. In this and last term, the government and the family ministry treated the issue of population policy as a first-class national and political issue. The population policy is a matter of national and political nature. The right argument would be figures on the minimum rate of natural growth after the suspension of the benefit for maternity benefits during the coalition government, which may have been best manifested after 7 years when the smallest number of first-graders was enrolled in grade primary schools. It was a "cycle of life" or a circle of life that we were making one bad decision then, after 7 years of such an unpopular decision by the then coalition government felt with the lowest number of prime ministers from the draft Croatian state. And that is why today, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I stress the importance of passing this law. I know that there are colleagues who will say that this law is not in the focus of their political action and interest, but this policy, which the HDZ Government will make through the proposal to set up a foundation "Croatia for children" and through the adoption of measures for children from multi-member families, but also for gifted children, this policy will determine in this "cycle of life", that is, the circle of life of fate and our families and family to your children Croatia. I will list a few, taxing few things that the Government adopted in the previous term and at the beginning of this term, which in the last term has increased the amount of maternity benefits and returned the right to a three-year maternity leave that the former government has reduced, in fact, abolished. After 12 years, a single aid for newborns is doubled and now stands at 2330 kuna, an increase in child's allowance, an innovative 500 kuna supplement has been introduced for each 3rd and 4th child in the family, making it possible to use more flexible working hours, i.e. the ability to work at the home of new parents. Employers are encouraged to receive special incentives for the employment of parents with young children, school textbooks, dormitories and the transport of students have become free, de-mining the maternity benefits that have been applied since the beginning of this year, perhaps one of the freshest measures of this government. Of course, it should also be said that from 1 January of next year only those unemployed mothers registered on the stock market will be eliminated, but the mothers of the householders will be equally involved in the system in the future. And now as I stand behind this pay phone, I remember a lady named Maria. In fact, my mother, the mother of four, then underage as in early 2000 with anxiety standing in front of the television and listening to this debate. Today, I am proud to say, speaking on behalf of the HDZ Club, that the consequences of our decisions will be seen in full realization perhaps only in a few years, but it will be felt by tens of thousands of children. By establishing this foundation that will take care of gifted children and children of multi-member families with the aim of increasing the birth rate, raising the quality of family life of multiple families and helping families of poorer property, families exposed to risks, social exclusion, it is clear that the follow-up of measures and efforts taken during the previous term have been made to help families and children, i.e. to encourage the growth of birth. Raising the level of family support with a number of children is a clear message to many families that the Republic of Croatia gives these families and children an increasingly important place. The HDZ Club will certainly support the adoption of the Law establishing the Children's Foundation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19398	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Tatjana Šimac Bonačić. She's gone. He's losing his right to debate. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is the honourable representative of Perica Bukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19399	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow MPs. The proposal of the Law on the Fund "Croatia for Children" is in some way a continuation of the measures and efforts that have been taken for a long time in an effort to help families and children, and thus fosters birthright growth in the Republic of Croatia. The foundation of this foundation is an additional incentive for families that are complemented by already adopted measures, as we have heard from my colleague, and an increase in the amount of child support and the number of children entitled to it, the introduction of an intrinsic 500 kuna supplement for every third and fourth children in the family, as well as the demining of maternity benefits, but also measures such as the introduction of free textbooks and other benefits for schooling children. It has been estimated that there are around 20,000 people in Croatia who need this type of support. In this regard, it is important that although it is especially related to families with five and more children, it does not exclude those children who need help and live in a number of smaller families. The establishment of this foundation is therefore a positive shift that sends the family a message that the state is concerned and wants to ensure the social equality of all children in the Republic of Croatia. We live in times of violence and alcoholism among young people on a growing scale, which is accompanied by both apathy and the aimlessness of young people. It is therefore particularly important that different forms of immaterial support at the level of local communities, associations and institutions operating in them, such as the acquisition of school equipment, support for cultural and sports events, the equipment of schools in smaller urban areas, in which there is a lack of... for young people, the foundation represents a big step forward towards getting them off the streets and directing a constructive and healthy life. [[You don't understand.]] In addition, many talented children live in Croatia whose parents are unable to provide an opportunity to develop their abilities because of their poor property conditions. By passing this law, the state will take care of these children. If they are properly directed and allowed to develop their talents, one day they will return to the state multiple times their knowledge and resources. Otherwise, these children are at great risk of social exclusion, and we especially think about children living in rarely populated areas of Croatia. When a young family decides to have a child, it also poses unpredictable risks. Daily newspaper columns full of cases of children born with marked health problems. These can be congenital anomalies, but also diseases that develop later in life. If families with five or more children experience such a thing, parents often find themselves puzzled. They must choose between caring for the child and meeting the basic needs of the rest of the family. We are witnessing that in the inability to address this situation, parents are increasingly addressing media who, through state mechanisms, are pressuring the media to address the situation or by appealing to pity, are collecting money for the treatment of such children with voluntary contributions from citizens. The "Croatia for Children" massacre, which provides for the possibility of individual payments, will make it much easier for parents to deal with these difficult situations, but also to reduce the criticism of the state health system through the media. In addition, they will ensure that those less courageous parents who do not dare bring their problem to the public get the necessary resources. This foundation also provides for single assistance to families if they lose one parent, and in Croatia it is often the case that only one parent is in need, so it is often the one member of the foster family who is a foster parent who leaves another spouse and children in a difficult social situation. The one-time aid this law will provide them is not small and will allow the family time needed for social stabilisation and ensuring a steady flow of funds for life. Ladies and gentlemen, according to the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, every year the average school in Croatia enrolls about 2,000 students of champions less than a year ago. We have before us a proposal for a law that covers major problems that prevents a significant increase in the birth rate in Croatia. No doubt, when it comes into force, the law will encourage young families to choose to have more children with far less fear. It is an extremely significant legislative proposal that can greatly affect the resolution of an unfavourable demographic picture in our country. I therefore believe that the Law on the "Croatia for Children" Foundation should be supported and I am convinced that regardless of party membership, as we have done on the parent board unanimously, we will do so today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19400	Thank you. Dear representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19401	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President and Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs. The proposal for this law is to give support to families with a greater number of children with a clear message to many families that the state, except for these families and children, gives all the more significant places. Although the deputy and vice-president of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports Mrs. Željana Kalaš, as well as the representative Mr. Bukić, has already pointed out what all of Croatia has done and done so far to move and promote the quality of life of these families with a higher number of children, I also believe that it is not burned, although every time it is necessary to recapitulate what we have done, and a strong step towards the country's commitment to ensuring conditions for better development of children, it is necessary to say that in 2007 the basis of the Children's Supplement Act is granted 1.9 billion kuna and 519 million kuna respectively, respectively, more than during 2006. Also, the State Budget Act for 2007 prescribed the minimum amount of maternity benefit of 50% of the budget base, i.e. 1663 kuna, and one-time cash aid for the newborn child raised from 1360 to 2328 kuna. About 450 million kuna is provided for the purpose of obtaining textbooks for all primary school students and first grade secondary schools, as well as providing free transportation for high school students. The increased allocations for maternity benefits and children's allowance in 2007 by 38% compared to 2006 and by 1.1 billion kuna, respectively, led to a slight increase in the number of newborn children, which ultimately puts motherhood and parenting at the heart of state policy. Ensuring the non-profit foundation "Croatia for Children" contributes to further developing the preferred innovative trend and empowering families with more children, raising the quality of life of multi-member families. The same would be achieved through co-financing of individual programmes such as family holidays with more children, school trips, sports meetings, visits to cultural events and institutions, extracurricular activities, scholarship of gifted children and successful students. But the establishment of a foundation also strengthens families with a number of children exposed to social exclusion risks, as well as the promotion of demographic development and maintenance in the ultimate maintenance of poorly populated areas in the Republic of Croatia. It is important to say that units of local and regional self-government as well as associations of citizens dealing with this problem would be included. It's about immaterial forms of help. A significant step in family promotion was also made by introducing a 500 kuna maximum value supplement for the third and fourth children to the child extra for children. But the systematic measures did not include families with five and more children, except for the exceptions made by the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity intended for about 530 families with eight and more children. Here, dear colleagues and colleagues, these are all the reasons why I will support another contribution to our most intelligent, national, strategic policy and support the adoption of the Law on Children's Foundation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19402	Thank you. And finally, distinguished representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19403	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. I welcome the Final Proposal of the Law on the Foundation of "Croatia for Children" which the Croatian Government has delivered to this High House for discussion and adoption, because the adoption of this foundation is aimed at the welfare and empowerment of families with a number of children. In particular, families with five and more children and gifted children from rural and less urban settlements. The adoption of this law was founded in the national population policy, the Children's Care area, measure 10, which reads "to establish a non-profit foundation "Croatia for Children" whose resources would contribute to the development of a desirable innovative trend and empowering families with a higher number of children". What I particularly want to stress is that possible users of financial and service support provided for by this law, along with families with a number of children and families with children and children, are exposed to the risks of poverty and social exclusion, families with children living in sparsely populated areas and areas away from educational, cultural, sports and other institutions, as well as gifted children of parents who have no material opportunities to provide further children with development and education. And such families and children are supported under this law, the estimated number is 20 thousand. When talking about financial support, one-time cash aids in certain, unexpected, but also living situations in which such families with more children, one or both foster parents, multiple delivery and so forth, or several months of support in the form of scholarships, scholarships and so forth. I am pleased to point out that through the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, the Croatian government has provided free textbooks for all founding students and the first two classes of high school, and this measure will apply in two years' time to all high school students. But in addition, free transport for first and second grade students has been provided. By the way of the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, students of third and fourth grade secondary schools living in areas of special state care also have free transport as a temporary measure by 2011 when the Ministry of Education will cover all students or students of all four secondary schools by free transport. But we are aware that today there are families with a number of students who are not covered by these measures. And therefore, I am sure that it is in everyone's best interest for this law to be passed and that the foundation "Croatia for children" works as quickly as possible to help children from many families. Of the many planned support in nature, from the purchase of the necessary school equipment and other assistance necessary for the success of the child at school, I particularly welcome the support in the acquisition of building materials or the equipment of the household with children who do not have the expected level of equipment of the house, the content of suitable care for children, such as the purchase of furniture or teaching of children intended, the construction of a water connection, etc., because daily we are witnessing an appeal and calling for help not only families with a number of children to the inadequacy of the conditions in which children and young children grow up. The funds for the implementation of this law are secured in the State budget for 2008 because the foundation's funding is foreseen from the revenues from gambling, in accordance with the provisions of the Foundation and Foundations Act, as well as from the income from assets, gifts and other revenues in accordance with the law. Namely, the Government of the Republic of Croatia Regulation on criteria for the identification of users and the distribution of part of the gambling income in 2008 planned for the purposes of the Foundation 10 million kuna, and the distribution of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity for the Fundamental Property of the Foundation provided 100 thousand kuna as provided for in Article 15 of this Law. And I am sure that in my Brod-Posavina County, the adoption of this law and the establishment of the foundation "Croatia for Children" will also welcome members of the Association of the family "Croatian Future" which brings together 66 families with seven and more children from the entire county with a total of 559 children who each year from their budget of Brod-Posavina County and Slavonski Brod help in co-financing of vacation costs for children from these families, as well as at the beginning of the school year by purchasing part of school supplies. Part of the members of this Brod-Posavina Association are so far users of the incentives of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity intended for 530 families in Croatia with eight and more children, especially grateful Deputy Prime Ministers and Ministers, because they have benefited from the assistance that the ministry has given to these families in the past. And to conclude, with all the measures that the Croatian Government has adopted so far, and which my colleagues and colleagues have spoken of, and this year adopted the Law on Family and Parental Assistance, the Croatian Government and we here in this House have sent a positive message on family empowerment in Croatian society and have contributed to the creation of a positive atmosphere towards family, marriage and children. I therefore believe that the proposed Act on the Foundation of "Croatia for Children" for the Croatian public, especially families with more children, as well as those who will be in the future, contribute to the development of the desired and Croatia so much of the necessary innovative trend, confirming our responsibility for the future of the Croatian people and the Croatian state. From all of this, I support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19404	Thank you. And a distinguished representative, Boro Grubisic, also appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19405	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. In any case, this is one proposal for the Law on the Foundation of "Croatia for Children", so something which is ultimately aimed at helping multiple families who have five or more children or under some other conditions that are listed here in this bill with fewer children but clearly with small incomes, i.e. incomes that are below average regulated by members of this law and some other positive laws, is to be welcomed. However, I must point out that, in my opinion, it was better to frame it in the legal frameworks instead of the foundation. So the foundation is a trust, and the law is the law. This was about how much everything has been done in the Republic of Croatia in particular in recent years in terms of helping parents and children from free school textbooks, free transportation of students, first two high school classes, so two generations later. Furthermore, there were children's extras, increases in the number of children's extras, but also an increase in the amount of money for child's allowance. I also have to say that when I talked to a number of parents, and I am also a parent and a grandfather, then many have expressed their disfavor, but have made their proposals in terms of saying both pornic policies and relief to parents who have three and more children, so the goal is to have one plus, the positive one to have a population increase, then three children is the first limit that it takes for the family to say, let me put it this way, in some positive regard to the ultimate policy. Well, these same parents say it's true that the textbooks are free of charge for school, but when it comes to buying shoes, when it comes to buying a jacket, when it comes to buying them, they're really, really, so does Mrs. Suzana, my colleague, really huge prices. It is not possible to reduce VAT on products which, therefore, wear clothes and equipment for children, but it is the way it is. And those prices are really enormous, I'd almost say they're more expensive shoes for a baby or for a little child than for an adult. Furthermore, in previous discussions when we talked about pedagogical standards, then I discussed how only 45% of our children were affected by kindergarten, so by kindergarten. Whether for material reasons or for some other or some other existence of grandmother service, it's hard to say. But in any case, that participation, I know that kindergartens are the jurisdiction of local self-government and regional, or regional self-government, so municipalities, cities and counties, but the part that parents participate in is also a monetary part. We're talking about money again here and here. If we were to sum up these participations that parents are participating to have their children attend kindergartens, then it is not for this country a large amount, and never for our children it is not a large amount, for ours, I speak for our Croatian children or children of Croatian citizens, however you will. But yet here's what I'm talking about and talking about, but there's still no talking about it, I wouldn't say hearing it, but there's no talking or talking about it. The foundation itself as a foundation has its own board of directors, as mentioned in Article 7 is seven members of the board of directors, of which the government of the Republic of Croatia is a feather, and of the two members of the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. It seems little to me that, what I may have missed to say yesterday, and today I am taking the opportunity that when it comes to the Public Private Partnership Agency, the administrative board is from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the agency is responsible to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So, the administrative council is made up of ministers and these same ministers correspond to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I don't know who makes the government but ministers, do they? So somehow there is an analogy here, even though I don't believe there can be any, I don't want to believe there can be any malfeasance, abuse, etc., in the establishment or at work, or in the work of the "Croatia for Children" Foundation, because it would indeed, indeed, be a sin. Anyway, the idea as an idea of establishing a foundation, and there were these trusts and more and there were them. We see that every day on our Croatian television and on others, simply one begging, a little sophisticated form, is not exactly a hand on the square provided, or in front of the church, but whether you are giving this number 3.66 kuna plus VAT. So is this a call to help a particular group of children, usually about children, so does the Croatian state collect VAT on that call. So is that exactly how it has to be? Are we so much, I know that everything can be, but by regulation, by any government, whether thinking about us here would not have to be, at least when it comes to it, I say ads, which many associations of children and parents, which, therefore, parents, by means of public electronic media call for help? Starting with severe diseases, from deformities and those that are indeed, who are really in a difficult situation in any form. It would be, how can I say not politically, or counterproductively not support this bill where I say, whenever it comes to children, whenever it comes to helping children, it's always something that's useful and good. But here's some remarks I had to make. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19406	Thank you. A representative of the government? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19407	The final draft law on the “Croatia for Children” Foundation. Second reading, P.Z. No. 33. The amendments were submitted by representative Milanka Opačić. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be shown on the amendments to Stjepan Adanic, State Secretary. Here you go. Amendment to Article 3 of the first amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19408	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the Croatian Parliament adopted on 24 November 2006 the National Population Policy, which came out of the “National Journal” 132/06, which sets out the area of care for children by measure 10, the purpose of establishing a foundation, I quote: “Institute a non-profit foundation “Croatia for children” whose resources would contribute to the development of a desirable innovative trend and empowering families with a higher number of children”. It's the end of the quote. The adoption of the proposed amendment would also mean an amendment to those measures of national population policy, which has already been declared by the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19409	Thank you. Mrs. Milanka Opačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19410	I don't think any foundation should be discriminatory, not even this foundation for children of Croatia, and I really think that children without parental care are children who need additional support from society and I don't think there's any reason why these children are not somehow covered by this foundation and I'm therefore looking for galsing.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19411	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The second amendment to Article 4 is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19412	The amendment is not accepted. The explanation is next. In accordance with the provisions of Article 3(2) of Law Article 4(1), it was necessary to determine which family, within the meaning of the law, is considered a family with a number of children and children from that family. It is also intended to open up the possibility that all other children from a family with fewer children, depending on their social and other circumstances, which put them in a social exclusion situation and take the risks of poverty or are endowed with the right to trust.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19413	Thank you. Ms. Representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19414	I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19415	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you very much. I am voting on the Final Bill on the “Croatia for Children” Foundation. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The law was passed by a majority of 106 votes in favour and 4 abstentions. Thus, the proposal for a Law on the “Croatia for Children ” Foundation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19416	We move to the 8th point of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Law, First Reading, P.Z. No. 178 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. When adopting this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply to Articles 144 to 150. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was held: the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Marina Dujmovic-Vukovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19417	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. The Law on the Area and the headquarters of the State Attorney's Office has put an end to 71st Municipal State Attorney's Office and 21st County State's Attorney's Office. Of the 71st Municipal State Attorney's Office, 61st State's Attorney's Office has indeed been established and 20 of the 21st County's are working. This large number of municipal state attorneys followed the areas and seats of municipal courts. Since in July of this year, the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts has reduced the number of municipal courts by 108 to 67, the need for the existing municipal state attorneys' offices to be in line with the territorial jurisdiction of municipal courts has also been demonstrated. It was therefore necessary to approach the process of rationalising the network of state attorneys. As a criterion for the implementation of the rationalisation of the existing network of state attorneys, the criteria set out also apply to the rationalisation of municipal courts. This law proposes that eight municipal state attorneys be joined and of the 10 municipal state attorneys established by the law so far, if they did not begin with the work of 8 state attorneys, they are not established. For the other two state attorneys, the Minister of Justice in Korčula, New Zagreb, will determine when the conditions are met and decide on the start of their work. By the start of work of the county's state's attorney's office in Virovitica, the affairs of the state's attorney's office will be carried out by the county's state's attorney's office in Bjelovar. This law proposes that the justice ministry provide work space and technical equipment for state attorneys in new seats, which will be created by merger by 31 December 2019 at the latest. The Minister of Justice will decide to establish permanent services outside the seat of the State's attorneys until the decision is made that the conditions for the work of the State's attorney's office are ensured. Regulations laying down the deadlines laid down in this Act shall be adopted by the Minister within 60 days of the entry into force of this Act. The law is proposed to enter into force on 1 January 2009. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19418	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? I see you don't. I'm opening a debate. They're clubs first. Club representatives. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, distinguished representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19419	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a law on the areas and seats of the state lawyers we are discussing today is a logical sequence of legislative activities of the Government of Croatia, taking into account that in this year, the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts was in the process and that the Croatian Parliament adopted it in July of this year. The law reduces the number of municipal courts in the Republic of Croatia with 108 courts, the state of courts, to 67 municipal courts. I would like to remind you that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted a strategy for reform of the judiciary and has set for one of the objectives a rationalisation of the network of courts in the Republic of Croatia. It should also be stressed that implementation of a series of strategy measures depends on the future network of state lawyers in the Republic of Croatia. The adoption of the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts has changed the areas of municipal and county courts and has therefore been approached by the drafting of a draft law on areas and offices of the State Attorney's Office in order to amend the areas of municipal and county attorneys' offices. As these issues are sensitive and it is normal to challenge discussions between the professional and other public, the applicant set the criteria for carrying out the rationalisation contained in the following: the number of cases received during the calendar year and the number of state lawyers and deputy state lawyers required according to framework criteria. The number of inhabitants, the total number of resolved and pending cases, the assessment of the inflow of cases and the ratio to the number of state lawyers. According to the current state, the Republic of Croatia has established 71 municipal state attorney's office and 21 county state's attorney's office. And it was founded and really works 61 municipal state attorney's office and 20 county state's attorneys. The bill is set up by 55 municipal state attorneys and 21 county state's attorney's office. The weighting of the number or more precisely 7 of the state's attorneys is being joined because the courts they were competent to handle have been joined. And one merger was proposed for economic reasons. The newly established County State Attorney's Office in Virovitica, the Municipal State Attorney's Office in Korčula and Novi Zagreb will begin work when the minister of justice determines that they meet the conditions. The proposal further regulates the local jurisdiction of the county’s state lawyers in the cases covered by the trade court’s division under the jurisdiction of the county’s public lawyers governed by this proposal, regardless of where the commercial court is based. We believe that it is good that the applicant has determined that the implementation of the rationalisation process takes longer, both in terms of ensuring the necessary working space conditions and technical support for state attorneys in the headquarters of the merger and in terms of the insurance and dynamics of the necessary funds. It is important to point out that the Minister's decision will establish permanent services outside the seat of the State Attorney's Office until the decision is made that the conditions for the work of the State's Attorney's Office are ensured in its seat. We believe that the applicant has set an appropriate time limit for the entry into force of the law, taking into account what preparatory actions should be done. We also know that the date and date of entry into force of the Law on Areas and Courts and that the implementation of those two laws implies joint activities in the implementation of both the courts' networks and the network of state attorneys. Given the importance of reforming the judiciary of commitments undertaken in the accession process of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support this proposal in its first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19420	Thank you. We are moving on to an individual debate and the first is Commissioner Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. She's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Then it's up to the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Then it's up to the honourable representative Damir Sesvečan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19421	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So before us is the Proposal for a Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State attorneys in the first reading which will certainly support, above all, the reason why this law establishes municipal and county state attorneys who are in line with the new network of courts established by the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts, which this Assembly adopted in July this year. The area of jurisdiction of municipal and county state attorneys shall be determined and their seats determined. I would like to remind you that the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts established a total of 67 municipal courts, which is lower by 41 courts compared to the present situation. The rationalisation of the network of courts through the accession of courts of the same kind as the proposed rationalisation of the state attorney's network shall be carried out in accordance with the judicial system reform strategy adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in September 2005. In the proposed rationalisation of state attorneys, account was taken of the burden of certain national lawyers, the number of cases received by type and the number of state lawyers or deputies needed to resolve them during the year, which is precisely defined by framework criteria. It was also taken into account other criteria also used to establish a network of courts such as geographical location, population number, population density in each area and so on. So I will repeat what the State Secretary has said to propose to establish 55 municipal state attorney's offices and 21 county state's attorney's office in relation to the current state of affairs where 61 state's attorneys and 20 county state's attorneys work, with 10 municipal and one county state's attorney's office being established but has not begun work so far. This law, as provided for in this Regulation and for the courts, obliges the Minister of Justice to adopt a regulation laying down the dynamics of the provision of conditions for the merger of state lawyers, which means the provision of adequate space and equipment, and not later than 31 December 2019. For these reasons, I will support this Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Law in my first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19422	Thank you. Dear Representative Vladimir Ivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19423	Honorable Vice President, respected State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. Any rationalization is welcome in this area is desirable. We have already said this by adopting the Law on the streamlining of courts, and since we are now amending the Law on Headquarterss and Areas of State Attorneys, of course it is logical that from 71 and 61, respectively, how many of them are in fact doing to reduce this number by offering this law to new 55 municipal state attorneys and, of course, 21 county state attorneys. The aim of rationalization is not to reduce activists who and, professionals who will work because at this time and these days might say that it cannot possibly be the goal. The aim is, in fact, specialisation and state lawyers, as was the specialisation of individuals in courts, also the greatest contribution of this rationalisation and merger in courts, is the possibility of individual personnel dealing with special criminal acts or special civil acts on which they have legal powers, so if we look only at the width of the areas in which they have to act today from complicated financial relations, complicated and civil, accounting, criminal. These are also the rights of companies that are often affected by various abuses of one owner at the expense of other owners with elements of criminal activity, then representing local self-government in all works that may occur in civil litigation, so that we can say, in fact, the State Attorney has to cover all the branches of life, and it is always more effective that one who specializes in a particular area and the merger of courts is able to enable judges, and this merger will allow the state lawyers to specialize in a single narrow area, so that in a narrow area they can act quickly, effectively and to act according to the courts, to achieve that ultimate objective, and this is rapid justice and rapid detection of acts that should still be done, complemented and thus enable the rule of law to act. That's why I'm going to support this law, because I think it definitely contributes to the quality of the total judicial system, the judicial system, and especially the state's attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19424	Thank you. Dear representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19425	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Republic of Croatia is during the construction of documents for the opening of Chapter 23. – The judiciary and fundamental human rights have drawn up strategic documents in the field of justice and the fight against corruption and together with them implementing action plans so that these strategic documents can be implemented consistently. As part of these strategic documents, there was certainly also a very intense government activity in proposing legal texts and proposals which then allowed for the implementation of strategic documents. This is how I must say that this Croatian Parliament, this High House, has since the beginning of this year passed 18 laws on the government's proposal right from the area of judicial reform. Of course, the strategy of judicial reform and the consistent implementation of it is primarily aimed at strengthening the rule of law, the spatial independence and impartiality of the judiciary, strengthening the efficiency of the judiciary, in particular by reducing the deadlines for the conduct of disputes and strengthening professionalism and expertise in the judiciary. These 18 laws have not been a purpose for themselves, but were precisely the purpose of achieving the results that have been put on the target and so far these results have been achieved in such a way that the number of pending cases has been significantly reduced by 41%, that in criminal cases in the period from 12 months 2006 to 30.6.2008 the number of outstanding criminal cases older than 3 years has been reduced from 11000 to 6300. In civil cases, cases older than three years have been reduced from 175,000 to 129,000. Especially significant results have been achieved in the reform of enforcement and in the reform of land-book law, where the number of remaining cases has been reduced by more than 75%. Of course, one of the action measures and one of the measures outlined in the Justice Reform Strategy is certainly the rationalisation of the network of courts and the rationalisation of the network of state attorneys, so I strongly support the proposal for this law which we can call the Law on the rationalisation of the network of state attorneys. Just as it happened with the passed Law on streamlining the network of courts. Since these laws are first and foremost expected to allow citizens better access to justice, to deal with lagging cases faster, to make better judgments, to carry out better quality of the state-of-law business, in any case faster and more thoroughly, and by doing so by streamlining the network of courts in which we have reduced the number of municipal courts from 108 to 67, and in this case, the proposal for this law reduces the number of state attorneys by the same principle. Therefore, the inflow of cases for at least five judges, i.e. in the case of state attorneys, shall be at least 5 deputy state attorneys per state lawyer. That's what you get. First of all, more effective and rational treatment is obtained and specialisation is made possible both here and in the case of state attorneys. In fact, this law actuates the provisions of the previous law which established state attorneys who had never actually functioned, since they did not have enough cases in their field to bring this state's attorney's office into practice at all. The physical dynamics of the merger of state attorneys follows that logical merger is physically, the dynamics of the physical merger of municipal courts. But what I must stress and what is extremely good is that municipal courts will be joined formally and legally in 1.1.2009, and I would like to stress that the purpose of rationalising both municipal courts, so in this case and the state's attorneys' offices, is not only a physical merger but actually a formal legal merger that will happen immediately in 1.1.2009. What's that gonna mean? This will mean that since 1.1.2009 all the joint courts will start to work as unique courts with single offices, and these cases will all become cases of one court, the judges of all the joint courts will become judges of this newly joined court, which will mean that from 1.1.2009 we can expect the effects of rationalisation in terms of faster, more effective, more impartial and professional trial and doing the affairs of the state's attorney, above all because of the possibility of specialising in certain types of cases and because of the possibility of more valid education of judges and state lawyers for certain types of cases, and at this very moment when we talk so much about security in the country, when we so much about the need to establish and respond to the situations that are taking place we believe that this rationalisation came at the right time for specialisation and special education for the management of specific types of cases. So I will strongly support it, and I believe that it will be done with consensus by all members of this high house. I will strongly support this law on the rationalization of the network of state attorneys. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19426	Thank you. And an individual debate, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19427	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary. I'm not an expert on justice and in this one of ours, to tell the legal system, but I can't help but notice that this rationalization of the areas and headquarters of the state's attorneys is, in some ways, a continuation of the story of the rationalization of the network of courts. In fact, we know that we all understand that the county borders are not administratively firm borders. Clearly, the state of Croatia is a unique state, but in the area of our 5th electoral unit I must specify one example that is now reflected in the headquarters of the state's attorney's office, or state's attorneys, municipal and county. Namely, in Slavonski Brod, the municipal court of Požega was generously assisted by the Municipality of Požega because of the large number of cases that the Ship had, the Slavonski Municipality court, and not only the municipal court but also the other courts in Slavonski Brod was assisted by a court in Požega which was less crowded or more up-to-date, which I would not judge because I am not competent to judge about the professionality and quality of work. Since the fact that the municipal county court in Pozega was also expeditious and had fewer cases and cases left behind and did not actually have them at all. That's why it's not clear to me in that first case when it comes to a network of courts, it's either "deceased courts" in Lipik and Pakrac or attached to the Municipality court in Daruvar. Daruvar is in Bjelovar-Bylogorje County, and Lipik and Pakrac are in Požeko-Slavon County. Furthermore, the senior instance following the municipal attorney's office or the state's attorney's office or the municipal court's court is the Bjelovar County Court. Let's go further than Požega. I was talking about the reasons why it's illogical that, through these arguments, when I say that a very effective court in Požega is, and we know what number of residents, which number of people are working on, the Municipal Court is working on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19428	Your Honor, I must warn you that this is a proposal for a law on areas and centres of the state's attorney's office and I ask you to stick to the subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19429	That's right. Let me finish just because it was only the opening part, but I didn't run out of time, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19430	Keep the discussion on a topic that is not on the agenda, so please stick to the topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19431	Here, I'll stick to the subject. Therefore, since companies will be involved in cases of criminal offences, there is clear that they are, therefore, local self-government units, so the cities of Lipik, Pakrac, the Municipal State Attorney's Office in Daruvar are responsible for such cases. Col. Ivkovic was just saying that Lipik and Pakrac, not about it, but in this example, it is precisely from his speech that the units of local and regional self-government are quite certain, and in connection with the work of the state's attorneys, they function better if it is a known community, if it is known who acts here, who works, which companies and which units of local self-government. This is how the State's Attorney's Office in Daruvar and then the county's in Bjelovar is responsible for the crimes in Lipik and Pakrac. Thank you very much, I think that's the taste of it all, isn't it?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19432	Thank you. And I'm closing the debate because a representative of the government doesn't need to be obvious. We'll vote when the voting conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19433	Proposal for a Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Lawyers. First reading, P.Z.E. No. 178. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. Firstly, the proposal for a Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Lawyers is adopted. Secondly, all comments, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be addressed to the applicant for the preparation and final proposal of the law. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that most of the votes, 98 votes for and 7 abstentions and 3 against the adopted bill, i.e. the conclusions for the Proposal for a Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Lawyers.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19434	We move on to - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 175 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government, the Committee on Environmental Protection, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction and the Committee on Development and Reconstruction. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Herman Sušnik, Director of the Ministry of Regional Affairs, did I say right? State Secretary at the Ministry of Regional Development. [[Intruder: Secretary of State.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19435	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. Here, before you there is the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Forests. All forests and forest land are located in the forest-economic area of the Republic of Croatia. The forest law regulates that certain forests or forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia can be separated from the forest-economic area for other purposes, if that is the interest of the Republic of Croatia. The proposed amendments and additions are amended in accordance with Article 51 in the property-legal work in a way that the construction of an entrepreneurial zone is considered of interest to the Republic of Croatia. Article 51a is added to which it is prescribed that certain forests and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia may be singled out from the forest-economic area only in favour of units of local self-government for the purpose of the construction of an entrepreneurial zone and on the basis of the urban planning of the arrangement. The implementation shall be carried out on the basis of a parceling elaborate drawn up on the basis of the urban planning of the arrangements for which the approval of the competent authorities of its compliance with the urban planning and technical correctness has been issued. Local self-government units mainly planned in their spatial plans for the construction of business zones by drawing up an urban planning plan, rather than by a detailed plan of arrangements as provided for by the forest law. Also in the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, the detailed plan of arrangements no longer replaces the location permit. This has led to some delays in the realisation of the construction of business zones, which we want to remove by this amendment to Article 51. The creation of new entrepreneurship zones opens up opportunities for further development of small and medium-sized enterprises and for the creation of new jobs that we need in any case, and this is particularly important in rural areas in order to maintain the domestic population. On this proposal, the final proposal for a law has been tabled an amendment of the Committee on Legislatives, in accordance with Article 2 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In Article 2 of the introductory phrase, the word "new" is deleted. So nomotechnically edits the expression and the government accepts this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19436	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. They're clubs first. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Branko Boxti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19437	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The adoption of this law is proposed as a matter of urgency for the speedy resolution of the already started, as well as for greater interoperability in the resolution of future deforestation or forest land procedures from the forest economic area in order to build entrepreneurship zones. The proposed amendments consider that there is an interest of the Republic of Croatia in the construction of entrepreneurship zones, the process is also prescribed and allows for the construction of planned business zones in the phase of urban plans, the arrangements and land parcels and the implementation of the process of detached forest or forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia. Conditions for deforestation of forests and forest land, i.e. the transfer of ownership rights to a third party is taxed, and it is necessary to carry out the exemption for which compensation is paid to a commercial company which manages forests and forest land. Issuing needs to be done in order to establish the right to build. Issuing is a special administrative procedure specific only to forests and forest land which aim to extract from the forest economic base. The law uses the term "separation" to transfer ownership rights, and in fact it is the type of sale under the assumption that there is an interest in the Republic of Croatia. The interest of the Republic of Croatia is determined in the manner and in the procedure prescribed for the exemption and it precedes the separation procedure. However, there are a number of situations where interest is assumed, or where it is established by law. It is considered that there is an interest in the implementation of a detailed plan of arrangements which is justified by a local authorisation or by a certificate that replaces it. The defence of the Republic of Croatia as arguments by the competent ministry and the marking of the site of mass graves of victims from the Homeland War. Several ways to make forest and forest land available are owned by the state under the Law on Forests. It's the foundation of service, the lease and the establishment of the right to build. The right of service in the forest and forest land can be established for the purpose of the construction of water, sewerage, gas pipelines, electrical waters, exploitation of mineral raw materials, the operation of tourism activities, livestock and game farming and the rise of years of plantation on unprocessed forest land or land grown in the initial or degenerational stages of forest ingredients. The forest law also provides for the possibility of renting certain forest land to the purpose set out in the forest-economic plans. The way and criteria for the lease of forest land are prescribed by the Government, and prior to the conclusion of the contract on the lease of forest land, an opinion on the legal validity of the contract by the competent state attorney's office should be obtained. The right to build is an institute that is determined by the provisions of the Law on Property and other real rights, but in our practice it has not brought about to a greater extent. The government prefers this institute instead of selling state land and expects contracts on state land to be concluded more and more frequently. In order to be able to conclude a contract with the state on the establishment of a right of construction, forest land from a forest-economic base should be previously singled out, then a contract on the right of construction will be concluded which will enable the forest land authority to build an object on which it will be owned. This Regulation shall enter The forest law describes the transfer of ownership rights and the establishment of the right of construction on state land. The government, or body authorised by it, may separate certain forests or forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia from the forest-economic area and transfer ownership rights to another legal or natural person or establish the right to build if there is an interest in the Republic of Croatia. The process of transfer of ownership rights and the establishment of the right of construction shall be initiated at the request of a legal or natural person whose benefit changes the purposes and the transfer of rights over a particular forest or forest land. Forest or forest land, forest owners shall be separated from the forest-economic area in the extradition procedure in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Execution. Forests and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia cannot be alienated from the ownership of the Republic of Croatia unless provided for by this law, and foreign legal and natural persons cannot acquire the right of ownership in forests and forest land unless the international contract provides otherwise. The amendment of Article 51 regulates the determination of the interest of the Republic of Croatia to distinguish certain forests and forest land from the forest-economic area for the purpose of building an entrepreneurial zone. The current formulation determined the implementation of spatial order documents of interest to the Republic of Croatia, assuming that the construction of an entrepreneurial zone would be dealt with more quickly. The legal solution prevented a faster settlement of property-legislative affairs in the area when an urban planning was developed for a particular entrepreneurship zone. Furthermore, the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction provides for a procedure for the establishment of a local authorisation when a detailed plan of arrangements for a specific entrepreneurship zone is in place. By adding Article 51a. allow units of local self-government to realise a specific entrepreneurship zone for which an urban planning of arrangements has been adopted. The legal solution prevented the demarcation of forests or forest land from the forest-economic area owned by the Republic of Croatia for a specific entrepreneurship zone and the resolution of property affairs and the registration of those in the land books. The project of building entrepreneurship zones aims to encourage and faster build entrepreneurship zones in units of local and regional self-government and as a function of even development of the Republic of Croatia, faster growth of entrepreneurship and increased employment. Direct investment in entrepreneurship zones creates preconditions for introducing a series of incentives for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, primarily through the benefits of entrepreneurs when building a business space on a fully-infrastructured land. The application of the law in practice has shown that there are a number of obstacles that slow down the construction of entrepreneurship zones in the forest or on forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia by means of a detailed plan of regulation. Therefore, the amendment of Article 51 allows the Government of the Republic of Croatia to speed up and complete procedures for the issuance of forest or forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia from the forest-economic area for the purpose of building entrepreneurship zones. The Croatian Democratic Community club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19438	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. He's the first respected representative of Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19439	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. This Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests responds to the need for daily practice in the realization of entrepreneurship zones provided for in the spatial planning documentation of units of local self-government. Under the current regulation, the entrepreneurial zones envisaged by the adopted spatial plan could not be brought to life without a relatively long and complicated procedure, and the key obstacle represented the establishment of the approval of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to which forest land was to be used. In any case, entrepreneurship zones are a category that is very important for the economy, not just a unit of local self-government but a Republic of Croatia, which is best proven by several already realised entrepreneurship zones from almost nothing, and some in fact from nothing like Dupolje where we see a huge economic development at that time. There are certain concerns that such almost automatism would devastate forest land for entrepreneurship zones, actually devastate the area, reduce the surface area of forest land. However, we must say that the category of assessment of cost-effectiveness, opportunity, the conversion of certain areas of non-building into construction, or in this particular case only in entrepreneurship zones is already regulated by spatial planning documentation. Therefore, such a decision to raise entrepreneurship zones has been verified from the point of view of the profession, the planning profession, and not only is the planning profession foreseen but all control mechanisms for the adoption of spatial-planned documentation confirmed by such a decision. Therefore, these amendments and amendments to the law actually want to regulate only one practice that has so far been very tropical and slow, and therefore many entrepreneurship zones that have had good preconditions, economic preconditions, developmental reasons and possible high economic income have not been achieved for the simple reason that this mechanism of implementation of such a decision has been too slow because it was based on the development of more detailed spatial plans for which time was required, and it was doubtful whether when certain entrepreneurial procedures are to be made to adapt to it or should be done in this way. There was one opinion that such decisions were made, public opinion was that such decisions were made in favour of one unit of local self-government, and some were made in favour of other units of local self-government. This way everything happens very transparently. They were all given equal opportunities at the beginning, and the decision to make or re-use forest surfaces into building surfaces was shifted to the level where all of this was defined by spatial-planned documentation. But the forest surfaces are also of great value to the Republic of Croatia and should be kept in mind that such areas disappear, especially if they are valuable. But we need to figure out which areas are really valuable, whether they're worth just as aesthetic value, whether they're worth economically, whether they're important because of some biological basis. And I support efforts to make one map of values, different values of forests as soon as possible, and to make such maps one of the bases for creating spatial planning. But I would draw attention at this point and something that comes from the other side, which is that certain surfaces that may fall under the forest economy or forest surfaces are actually pure stonesmiths, without any utilitarian or even aesthetic values. Here already almost 2,000 hectares have moved to certain areas that have their economic value as agricultural areas. And one more thing in the end only, it is important to say that in the existing Law on Forests in Article 37, there is one fuse, one mechanism that says that all together can happen exclusively for an entrepreneurial purpose, for no other purpose, so that there is no danger that by resuscitating spatial plans, this changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19440	Thank you. A representative of the government won't answer for a word. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19441	Final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Forest Act. It was an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 175. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee, the IDS Representatives' Club. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to show up on the amendments. Mr. Herman Sušnik, State Secretary. First Amendment 1 to Article 2. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19442	The government accepts this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19443	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. And the IDS Representative Club on Article 2?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19444	The amendment is not accepted. As a special regulation, the forest law prescribes a parcel for the purpose of demarcating a particular entrepreneurship zone and, on the basis of the urban planning of the arrangement and that parceling establishment must have the approval of the competent authority to comply with the urban planning of the arrangement as well as a certificate of technical regularity, and thereafter there is the possibility to register in the land book.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19445	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, the amendment has been withdrawn. Thank you very much. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the forest law. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that most of the votes, 103 votes for, 2 abstentions and 1 against the adopted Law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests, together with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19446	We move to item 10 of the agenda - Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Austria on the Completion of the European Convention on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters complemented by the Additional Protocol to the European Convention on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters and on facilitating its application, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 177 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Marina Dujmović Vukovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19447	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. The law confirming the contract between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Austria supplementing the European Convention on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters complemented by the Additional Protocol of the European Convention on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters and on facilitating its application shall ratify that Treaty. The Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Austria are the European Conventions on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters of '59. and an additional protocol from '78. A year. The Convention provides that Contracting Parties may enter into mutual assistance agreements in criminal matters with a view to supplementing its provisions or facilitating the application of the principles contained therein. The Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Austria signed that contract in Zagreb on 20 November 2003. Following the signing of the contract in the text of the originals in the Croatian and German languages, certain discrepancies and technical errors agreed to be corrected in the procedure provided for in Article 79 of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 have been observed. Vienna Conventions on the Law of International Contracts. The exchange of notes of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integrations of the Republic of Croatia and the note of the Embassy of the Republic of Austria after longer correspondence with diplomatic channels reached an agreement on the correction in the text of the contract as signed in the original in Croatian and German, replacing the corrected text with the earlier wrong text. Following the agreement reached in the Confirmation Act, the corrected text of the contract in Croatian is published. The Party shall complement the provisions of the Convention and facilitate its application in order to simplify and speed up the procedure of providing legal assistance in criminal matters and to resolve such cases which have a significant number between the two States, and consist of the introduction of a wider scope of legal assistance through direct communication between the courts of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Austria, communication in its own language without the need for translation, direct delivery through mail, as well as some other reliefs. Confirmation of this Treaty will not require the adoption of new or amending laws or additions to existing laws. By confirming this treaty, the Republic of Croatia will improve co-operation with the Republic of Austria in the area of providing international legal assistance in criminal matters, which is particularly important in the joint fight against terrorism and organised crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19448	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. We're moving on to a debate. I'm opening a debate. And we have one individual hearing application. Dear Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. She's gone. He's losing his right to argue at this point. I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19449	The final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Austria on the Completion of the European Convention on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters complemented by the Additional Protocol to the European Convention on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters and on the Facilitation of its Application was an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 177. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of this law. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that most of the votes, 108 votes for and 1 abstentions have been accepted by the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Austria and so on I do not read.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19450	Point 11 will be skipped, given that we do not have the conditions for discussion, because they are representatives of the government, or the Ministry of Interior at the National Security Council meeting. Moving to point 12. - Proposal for a decision to set up a child rights award committee. Proposer of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, and Article 6. It's a child rights award law. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Committee Chairman Željana Kalaš, Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, Honored Representative Željana Kalaš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19451	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President. Here, as vice president of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, I will explain this decision. The Law on the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child, prescribed the Republic of Croatia as a reward for promoting the rights of the child for exceptional achievements in the protection, well-being and rights and interests of children. The prize is awarded as a reward for life's work and as an annual prize. The provision of Article 6 of the Law stipulates that the award for the promotion of the rights of the child is awarded by the Committee for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child, which consists of 5 members, and is established by the Croatian Parliament in time of 2 years. The members of the board are appointed from the ranks of well-known public workers dealing with issues related to the rights of the child, and on the proposal of the parent body of the Croatian Parliament, it is the Committee for Family, Youth and Sports. The mandate of the previous appointed board members expired at the end of 2007. The Committee for Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament at the 12th session held on 1 October 2008 decided to propose to most of the votes for the members of the Committee the following members, the academic Alice Wertheimer-Baletic, vice-president of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, Tanja Radoča, the head of UNICEF's office in Croatia, the professor of science Dr Dubravka Maleš professor at the Faculty of Philosophy in Zagreb, professor of science Alojzi Hoblaj, professor at the Catholic Faculty of God and Dajan Podloski Gracanin music teacher, founder and president of the Association of Children's Rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19452	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. And we have one registered representative. Dear representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19453	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Supporting everything that the Vice-President of the parent committee, Kalash, presented on the basis of this proposal, I call on all colleagues to announce the proposed committee as soon as possible so that the prize for the promotion of child rights could be awarded this year on 20 November to the International Day of the Child and the day on which the General Assembly of the United Nations adopted the Declaration of the Rights of the Child, and we know that the Republic of Croatia is also a signator of this document. On the other hand, it should be said that the tender for applications for candidates is in accordance with the Regulation on the Prize for the promotion of the right of the child and that it is ongoing, and that I call on it that it is high time for us all to be aware that we should appoint this so that we can execute the award on the International Day of the Child on 20 November. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19454	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions for voting are met. So we've exhausted all the points we've predicted for today's debate and we're terminating the session at this point. A break until 12.30, so I can ask the MPs to stay close by. If the conditions are met and as soon as they are acquired and no later than 12.30, we will proceed with the session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-24-0.u19455	Proposal for a decision to set up a child rights award committee. The proposal is from the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, I am voting on the Proposal for a decision to set up a Committee for the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that most votes, 97 votes for and 11 abstentions have accepted a proposal to set up a committee for the child's rights promotion award.
