ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1230	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I am extremely pleased, so I would say, in any case, the special honor to present the fifth budget of my government, the four in the previous term and the first in the new term. In the beginning, I would like to say that this budget has been made under very difficult circumstances for Croatia. First of all, it's two things I want to point out. The first is that there were parliamentary elections and that the budget could not be worked at the usual time, which is autumn, the winter of the year in which every time and so far we held that tradition through all governments is adopting the budget for the next year than we had to go to temporary funding and it was one circumstance. The second circumstance is that macroeconomic indicators were good for 2007, even brilliant and that the situation changed significantly and that such macroeconomic indicators could not be expected in 2008. First of all, it is certainly about the growth of gross domestic product. We can't expect to repeat a growth of over 6% from the first three quarters. We'll see at the end when statistics finish their work as it was all year round, but in the first three quarters it was 6.2%. I hope the statistics show that it was 6% at the level of the year. I'm sure there won't be a case this year for any known reason, but I'll do it again. It is an inflation that is not only a Croatian case or a specific one in these circumstances but also a European one, and also a global one, but it is a fact that the world's population is growing that production does not follow and nor can it monitor the growth of the world population. So the growth in food production is much slower and, in this sense, it will probably increase prices or prices of what we have learned from food products will never be like that again and we will have to face the fact that we will have to answer that. And the third thing is energy. The rise in energy prices is something that affects not only Croatian but also European economic policy. In this context, I would like to point out that we have managed, in accordance with our circumstances and opportunities, to make a proposal for the budget that we present today in the Croatian Parliament and for which I expect to receive the support of the Croatian Parliament because the economic policy of the Government and in it maintains the focus on preserving macroeconomic stability. Our first task was, coalition governments, to preserve as much as we can and how much executive power can affect it, macroeconomic stability, and above all, fiscal measures. And on this occasion, I will say that the macroeconomic stability is also affected by monetary policy not run by executive power, but is managed by the central national bank, so the Croatian National Bank, and we expect them in monetary policy areas to take appropriate measures towards stabilising the situation, especially when it comes to expected inflation, but also when it comes to the fact that we need to preserve macroeconomic stability. We have managed to preserve this macroeconomic stability, ladies and gentlemen representatives, in a much more difficult time, and under much more difficult circumstances, the circumstances of the Homeland War. I remember when the economic reform was launched in 93rd during the government of Nikica Valentiæ, it was at a time when Croatia had almost a third of the country occupied, and we managed to preserve macroeconomic stability in that time. If we were able to preserve it then, there is no doubt that we can preserve it today. And that's why the government, the government, sort of reduced the expectations that were still at the end of the year, or in the last quarter of last year, when it came to economic growth, so that it could be held at the level of 2007, we revised them, these expectations and we expect that growth could be from 4 to 4.5% this year, therefore, growth in gross domestic products. What is important is to say in this context, when we talk since 2007 and when we talk about expectations for 2008 that favourable real sector developments have also reflected positive achievements in the labour market. So according to the Croatian Employment Institute, we had a continuous decline in unemployment in 2007. Now, in order not to talk about 2007, we also have the latest data for January 2008. Therefore, data for January 2008 continue to move favourably on the labour market, thus being recorded in January 2008, and we have this data, almost 38 000 unemployed less than in January 2007, and the number of unemployed is moving at the lowest levels in the last 12 years. Otherwise, the unemployment rate in the third quarter of 2007 was 8.4%, and our goal is to bring it down to below 7% in the next 2.3 years. Therefore, the changed conditions in the environment, which undoubtedly have an impact on economic developments in Croatia, are the response to a cautious approach in planning income and savings on the foreign state consumption. So we continue to fiscally adjust and curb state spending, and we plan a general government deficit of 2.3% to 2.4%, here somewhere, but our goal will be 2.3Z%, gross domestic product. I do not need to say how important this is, given the fact that the criterion for the monetary union is 3% and that Croatia has already exceeded it in the past year, or reduced it below that criterion. We will continue with such a policy, there will be no additional borrowing and the deficit should not be greater than 2.3%, that is our goal, if it is and 2.4 will be, it will be lower than it was last year. What we wanted to highlight in drawing up this year's budget is that we want to distribute budgets, carefully, and keep emphasis on priorities, leading to the account, as I said earlier that the state, that the growth of state spending, is shrinking. The main idea of leadership was to prepare for participation in the single European market, i.e. to increase the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. We want to encourage a stronger take-off of Croatian entrepreneurship by investing significant measures and budgetary, and efforts and budgets to improve the business climate. Small and medium-sized enterprises and crafts will be the main drivers in the new era of Croatian economic development. In 2008, ladies and gentlemen, a billion and 800 million kuna are allocated to encourage entrepreneurship, which is twice as much as when we represented the first budget in 2004, means in four years twice as much incentives for entrepreneurship. And that's what makes us particularly happy. In addition to this direct investment, it is necessary to establish a prerequisite for creating a stimulating business environment, a competitive economy and an effective state administration, which is to promote the knowledge of excellence, the information of society, and the modernisation and reform of the judiciary. The development of these preconditions is the primary task of the state, and such separation for these programmes in the 2008 budget is 15 whole, i.e. 15 billion 800 million kuna, which is 48% growth compared to four years ago. We remain, therefore, at our priorities, that we want to create a knowledge society from Croatia, and therefore investment in education and science is a basic prerequisite for Croatia's development, an increase in the percentage of the highly educated population will allow us to develop and increase competitiveness in the increasingly demanding global market. And so here is the data, investment in science, education and sport in 2008, increased by 933 million kuna, i.e. 8.7% compared to 2007. The government's priority programmes include building an information society at all levels and thus making public administration more efficient and transparent in performing business with citizens and entrepreneurs. Total investments in inforamtisation and availability of information technologies over the last four years have tripled. The second priority, equally, no less important, perhaps even more important, but long... is certainly a knowledge society, an important priority, is judicial reform, modernisation leading to full establishment of the rule of law, resulting in a more favourable business environment and greater legal certainty for citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in 2008, ladies and gentlemen, we continue to invest significantly in the fight against corruption and crime, and the implementation of the national anti-corruption programme. We will continue as well in the next period with further investment in balanced regional development. Encouraging rural development of agriculture and fisheries, as well as promoting tourism, preserving natural and cultural heritage and further investing in infrastructure projects. Which will not only contribute to increasing the competitiveness of the economy but also increase the quality of life of all Croatian citizens. We all often talk about the even development of Croatia together. There is no balanced development of Croatia without the development of rural, rural areas and the promotion of entrepreneurship in agriculture, and therefore they take a special place in this budget. Croatia is not a big country but all its parts have rich natural predisposition and development potential. The well-designed programmes will help the government achieve the additional swing needed for growth and success. And let me conclude: a more detailed presentation will be discussed by the Minister of Finance. In the coming period, the government will keep the economic policy direction focused on achieving high levels of competitiveness in the Croatian economy that will bring us closer to our European partners. We are on our way to the European Union, and here we are near the goal of full membership in NATO. We also want to talk about it in this budget and to point out that. This leaves two foreign-political priorities that are unwittingly reflected in the state of the domestic market. So we expect an invitation to NATO at a summit in Bucharest from April 2nd to April 4th and expect a positive effect from the invitation to the Croatian economy as well. And when it comes to foreign direct investment and domestic investment. And in this regard, we expect that this event will also be one of those incentives for the growth of the Croatian economy, and I can tell you that from Croatian businessmen, even from all other groups in Croatian society, we get positive signals when it comes to NATO which is extremely happy as well as the fact that even after recent surveys of public opinion support to NATO is much greater than it was a year or two ago. Also, when it comes to the European Union, I would like to say that we want to do everything possible to negotiate which is halfway across the way, we are negotiating for the third year, and we think that these negotiations should be completed in the first half of 2009. This is what the European Parliament has also been talking about, and we expect the adoption of a new resolution in the European Parliament that will be encouraging for Croatia, because as much as it is in the interest of Croatia to join the European Union, it is doubtless for ladies and gentlemen that this is both useful and encouraging for the European Union and for Croatia's membership in the Union and for the Union, but also for countries in Southeast Europe. It is therefore our job to strengthen our negotiating capacity through this budget and our position towards future membership in the European Union. I conclude this first part of our debate on behalf of the promoter with the fact and by expressing our satisfaction that we have managed to form, under unsettled conditions and circumstances, a single budget that remains a developmental one, which remains and does not penetrate the rights that have been acquired. So there's no lifting of rights. But it remains developmental with emphasis on the knowledge society, on judicial reform, on state administration reform and on the fight against bribery and corruption. I expect the Croatian Parliament to trust this budget. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1231	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. And now, Mr. Ivan Shuker, the finance minister will continue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1232	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Here is the first coalition budget... The government led by Dr Ivo Sanader and for the third time on your bench you received a short booklet where we want to present the budget in a simpler, more plastic way both to parliamentary representatives and to the Croatian public. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Finally, the leaders of the local self-government unit for the reason that guidelines and methods of governance and fiscal policy should also be a guideline for state public police as well as for local self-government units. So what are macroeconomic expectations in 2008? Due to the known events, the financial market crisis in most of the economic recession, we expect a 4.5% economic growth and 5.2% inflation in our macroeconomic forecasts in 2008. I must also say that when we produced a macroeconomic projection for 2008 we carried out a series of consultations with leading economic analysts in the Republic of Croatia, and in such a way we came together to this kind of projection. What I would like to say in presenting this budget is that the macroeconomic developments in 2008 will also be exposed to possible pressures. Mostly high prices of raw, crude oil on the world market. Turbulence in the financial market is primarily caused by the crisis of secondary mortgages in the United States, the rise in interest rates in the euro zone, the possibility of slowing economic growth in the countries of the economic partners. So these were the reasons why our approach to this budget was quite conservative and as far as economic growth is concerned, but above all, regarding the planning of revenues and expenditures of the state budget. So despite some negative movements in our environment, this government has opted for further fiscal consolidation and responsible fiscal policy. It's a reduction in the government budget deficit. And this year, we propose in this budget proposal that the government budget deficit be 2.3% of gross domestic product. So he'll be at the level of the 2007 deficit or even slightly smaller. But what is the most important deficit of 2.3% is in, at the level of the deficit created in fiscal projections in 2007. But what I would like to say is that in these changed circumstances, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, with the proposal for this budget, wanted to send a single message. Because if we ask others to get used to these new conditions then the government must send a clear message. And you may have left it undetected but I want to warn you of one piece of information. The expenditure of the state budget in 2007 from 2006 grew 13.8 billion kuna. However, in the 2008 Budget Proposal, expenditures in 2008 rose from expenditures of 6.6 billion kuna. And it's a clear message that the government wants to limit spending and so on, if the government can, so can everyone else. It is also a message to local self-government units that not only public service prices, but first and foremost to the owners, must not be stychically raised. Because if you look at the prices of utility services, then you'll see that those in certain parts are the most affected by the economy. What I would also like to point out is what has been the result of our fiscal policy in the past four years and the normal thing that such fiscal policy has produced in 2008. So, in the 2008 budget, the Republic of Croatia achieved a primary surplus. What does the primary surplus mean? So, when you exclude interest from the expenditure side of the state budget, then the indicators say that the state of Croatia with tax revenues covers all its expenditures and still has a billion and 100 million funds to finance the interest on loans raised in previous years. And when we talk about the primary deficit and why we pointed it out, it's actually a clear answer why this government decided on a solid fiscal policy, why it decided on a fiscal policy that goes towards reducing the deficit because every deficit costs. And these 5 billion interest rates that we will allocate from the state budget this year 5 billion funds paid by taxpayers in the Republic of Croatia will go to interest and if we hadn't gone to the state deficit policy in the past 4 years then this amount for interest would certainly be over 6 billion kuna and the state would not be in the primary surplus, but would be in the primary deficit. And that is the best answer to those who say that the deficit should be increased and with an increased deficit respond to these developments and that the increased deficit is one of the instruments of the government's measures to fight inflation. Yeah, the easiest thing to say is the increased deficit, it's the easiest thing to go, to be in charge. However, the increased deficit costs a great deal, not to mention that three, four years ago we had a historic low interest time. Today, these interest rates are not low and, by any chance, we did not come to 2.3, 2.4%, but if it had remained in levels 5.6%, then the borrowing to cover the deficit this year would have cost Croatia's citizens a lot. Because ultimately, it is not excessive to remind that the deficit can only be financed from a new debt or from the sale of companies owned by a state or some other property. There's no third way to finance the deficit. What we wanted to send is a message with this budget, bearing the title and the work title and this booklet, which is for the competitiveness of Croatian society. And when you take a closer look at the individual items in the budget, then you'll see that they're looking at it right now. We can say that even in certain positions more resources could be provided. Yes, more resources could be provided only the revenue side's problem. By providing more resources for certain activities, you can provide funds for a famous deficit that I have already talked about or about increasing the tax burden on Croatian citizens or Croatian businessmen. If we talk about the tax burden of both Croatian citizens and Croatian businessmen, then we are thus directly reducing the competitiveness of the Croatian economy and increasing the cost of working in the Republic of Croatia. That this budget is really going towards increasing the competitiveness of Croatian society is best seen from the funds envisaged to encourage entrepreneurship. So in 2007, these funds were a billion 488 million. In 2008, we propose a billion 872 million or 25% more than in the previous year or 100% more than in 2003 or 80% more than in 2004. Incentives and employment are also projected for eight percent, and I must say that, both the Prime Minister and all of us, from these economic portfolios, have experienced a lot of criticism over the past four years that we do not have an active employment policy. However, the results after the four-year term of the government speak quite the opposite. They talk about 129,000 new jobs and talk about some 60,000 less unemployed, and with this measure announced by the Prime Minister at the “Golden Kuna”, which is that the government will free the employers from paying health contributions for the new employees I want to clarify. Because I've seen it these days, and it actually says today that it's not supposed to be in the budget and it's not supposed to be projections. Well, that can't even be foreseen in the budget, because that's neither income nor expenditure. Because the government will provide health care with the resources that health care needs. And given that even at this point, one minus in health care is covered by tax revenues and these reduced incomes with the basis of the release of health pay for the first employment of young people will be lower incomes at the health income position, and the health budget provided for in this budget will therefore be covered by income, tax revenues, other tax revenues from the state budget. What is very important, therefore, is the constant story of corruption and the assessment of corruption, which is primarily based on perception of this budget, with the announcement of the introduction of a single identification number and the modernisation of the judiciary and the informing of the state administration, clearly states that this government and technical, and by amending the law, has brought about a state administration that can finally introduce a practical instrument that we can effectively fight corruption. An instrument that will accept things in advance, but it also won't aliminate what happened before. It's a matter of other state authorities that can, and have been able to deal with certain wicked acts in the past. Encouraging knowledge of excellence. I want to say something special here because many are criticising both this government and the president and the resolute Minister of the Primorac that the funds of an increase of 8.7% are small for the promotion of science and excellence. However, I would like to remind you that the 2003 budget was 7 billion and 600, 2004. 8 billion and 200, and today is the budget for the same area, because God knows what did not cost some, but simply investment in human capacities, so those who are involved in our children's education, investing in new scientists and investing in school infrastructure. Today we propose that this budget be 11 billion and 700 million or 933 million more than it was last year or almost 4 billion more than it was five years ago. But, therefore, without creating any new costs than within the project of the Ministry of Science towards a single school and increasing the standards of all primary schools in the Republic of Croatia, with the funds of decentralised functions where income tax is if you look at last year's revenues of the state budget and this year's, you will see that income from income tax is growing practically as fast as possible, so the continued revenue of the local self-government unit and this is an automatic response to all those who have criticised the amendment of the Law on the financing of local self-government units, because in such a way the units of local self-government picked up nearly a billion and 400 million kunas last year, and since most of these funds from income tax apply to decentralised funds in primary education, so for 30 major cities and for all counties that have taken over and for smaller units of local self-government around primary education and secondary secondary education. Then we can say that in the past four years this government has invested extremely large funds in this area, no one says that they may have been bigger, but in line with the budgetary opportunities and fiscal capacities of the Croatian economy and Croatian citizens we believe that these funds were adequate and I say in combination with local self-government units can be done very much, and I think that in the past four years we have done very much especially where there has been a positive response from local self-government units where, together with the relevant ministry, there has been a lot to do. Such information of a society without an informed state administration, without informing society very difficult to talk about any structural reforms, is very difficult to talk about that Croatia can go one way or another faster towards the European Union, and informing society is nothing that anyone could not have done before. However, 290 million were allocated for the project five years ago, today 250 million are being allocated for the project. And so these financial indicators on money clearly say that when we say that this is a budget for the competitiveness of Croatian society, it certainly has support in certain positions of the state budget where the funds are secured. Investments in agriculture and rural development, so funds of some billions and 600, 700 from 2003, billions and 900 from 2004 grew to 4 billion and... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1233	Make sure you finish up and you'll come back later.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1234	Here, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your attention, more opportunity throughout the day to discuss all these positions further. Thank you very much again.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1235	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of Finance. I am informing parliamentary deputies and MPs that up until now, seven clubs and 67 individual debates and three debates on behalf of the clubs have been signed up for five minutes. We'll work continuously without a break until this item of the agenda is exhausted, but so we can sort out, in total, so somewhere around, something over 70 discussions. Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. He has a Committee on Health, Social Policy, Chairman of the Andrija Hebrang Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1236	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health at yesterday's session discussed the proposal for a national budget for the Republic of Croatia for 2008 and the Final Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of the State Budget. In the opening statement, the proposaler's representative explained the state budget for 2008 and argued that the basic provisions of macroeconomic policy had an impact on the caution in planning revenues and austerity at the state level. Therefore, the state budget is a response to the moment in which we are located, while achieving the basic objective of harmonising the social and development components. The estimated funding for a health system of 22.5 billion kuna is not a unit of funds for this system. In fact, additional funding from the budget is paid to the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance on medicines, sick leave, compensation and other Croatian hospitals and hospitals in areas of special state care. In a broad discussion followed by most members of the Committee, she supported the proposed state budget, noting that it was a balanced budget that retained social sensitivity and also supported investment programmes. It is evident that the planned funds for health care in this year have been increased by 4.06% and most Committee members thus express satisfaction. During the debate, it was pointed out that additional investment from the state budget in the system of health, debt recovery, investments, etc. in practice, it flows from the national budget to more financial resources than provided for in Article 67. Health insurance laws. Given the state of the health system and the fact that significant resources are missing every year, it is necessary to access health reform to ensure the stability of the health system regardless of the financial situation of the state budget in the future. After the discussion, the Committee members supported the adoption of the State budget for 2008 with a projection of the 2009 and 1010 State budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1237	Thank you very much. The chairman of the Finance Committee, Mr. Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1238	Dear Mr. President, Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Government, respected ministers and members of the government, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the second session held on 26 February 2008 the proposal for the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008 with the Proposed Budget Draft for 2009 and 2010, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in an act of 21 February 2008. Financial and State Budget Committee of the Croatian Parliament on the basis of its competence as referred to in Article 65. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008 with the Proposal for Budget projections for 2009 and 2010. In the introduction, the Government of the Republic of Croatia's representative pointed out, among other things, that the 2008 National Budget of the Republic of Croatia planned the total revenue of Kuna 115.9 billion and the total expenditure of the state budget for 2008 were planned to amount to kuna 119.4 billion. The movement of total revenues and total expenditure of the state budget in 2008 shows that a deficit in the state budget of €2.5 billion is planned to finance the difference between the total income from financial assets and borrowing. In 2008, the government budget deficit is 1.3% of GDP, which will ensure the achievement of a consolidated general government deficit of 2.3% of GDP. After the opening presentation of the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, various opinions, remarks and proposals were presented on the committee, among others that the 2008 proposal for the State Budget was conservatively planned and based on an economic growth of 4.5% and an inflation of 5.2% and an increase of 6.5% of kuna compared to last year. It has been warned of the possibility of treating the deficits of the state budget in a different way than proposed. And the way to increase the subsidies intended for agriculture that is not acceptable, because the planned funds for this purpose are misdirected towards subsidising small production rather than promoting the rounding of food production in the country. However, the discussion on the board has overcome the view that this proposal for the 2008 budget should be supported because it provides assumptions for the preservation of macroeconomic stability and strengthening the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. It is pointed out in particular that the 2008 budget continues the trend of planning for higher growth in revenue from expenditure growth, thus reducing the deficit of the state budget. After the debate was held, the committee voted with a majority of votes, 6 votes for and 4 against decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008 and the following decisions: - Decisions on granting consent to the 2008 financial plan of the Croatian Waters, - Decisions on granting consent to the 2008 financial plan of the Croatian Roads, - Decisions on granting consent to the financial plan of the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks for 2008, - Decisions on granting consent to the financial plan of the Croatian Privatisation Fund for 2008 and - Decisions on granting consent to the financial plan of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund for 2008. At the same time, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament decided without debate by majority of votes, 6 for and 4 against the Croatian Parliament to propose the adoption of the Law on the implementation of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1239	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else on the board? Yeah. Here you go. Chairman of the Agriculture Committee, Mr. Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1240	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Croatian Prime Minister with members of the government. The Committee on Agriculture and Forestry of the Croatian Parliament discussed at its first session held on 26 February 2008 the proposal for a State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008 with the Proposal for a Budget projection for 2009 and 2010 and the Proposal for a financial plan for the Croatian Waters for 2008 with the proposal for a projection of the financial plan for 2009 and 2010 submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 21 February 2008. The Committee held a discussion on those proposals as an interested working body in accordance with the provisions of Article 140 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The opening statement was tabled by the president, the Ministry of Finance representative, the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development and representatives of the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. Following the opening argument, the Committee covered the part of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008 in respect of its work cycle, i.e. Sections 060 and 062. In the debate on the proposal for a state budget relating to agriculture, we assess the good that the funds for the same have increased compared to 2007 and continue with the projects launched. However, some board members suggest that although significant capital investment funds have been provided in the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, small agricultural producers should still be stimulated to engage in cooperatives, cooperatives and be given the necessary funds. This may give better results than the system of fostering the agricultural production that is now proposed. It is also stated that budget planning should take account of regionalisation of agricultural production. Further discussion supported the establishment of the Land Agency but warned that the planning and rounding of agricultural land would be more effective if the land-book situation was settled and the return of agricultural land was finally realised through the Law on Land Communities. As the irrigation system has been positioned within the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy in the debate, it has been stated that it should be encouraged to adopt irrigation projects for the whole country, with a particular emphasis on irrigation of certain agricultural productions, as drought has caused major agricultural damage in recent years. The debate further held that some operational programmes in agriculture that have been adopted over the past four years have produced good results and that this draft budget continues to implement them. In the debate, some board members pointed to the problem of excess agricultural products, primarily pigs, and the inability to place them on the market, while on the other hand imports are increasing. In particular, all agricultural products produced and purchased and placed on the market should be taken into account. It also draws attention to the importance of plant health for agricultural production more because it is related to environmental protection. As part of plant protection, toxic substances, protective agents are used, and it is important to work with them and how they are applied to certain cultures, or to plant production. The draft budget provides for monitoring of the residue of plant protection products, but it would be good if monitoring of applications to technical means used in plant protection were also envisaged. Furthermore, most board members supported the adoption of a Decision on granting consent to the financial plan of the Croatian Waters for 2008. On the basis of the debate held, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry of the Croatian Parliament decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008 and the Decision on granting consent to the 2008 Financial Plan of the Croatian Waters.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1241	Thank you. On behalf of the Justice Committee, President Ivo Grbic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1242	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, members of the government, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The Committee for the Justice of the Croatian Parliament for the 2nd session held on 26 February 2008 discussed the proposal for the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008 with the Proposal for Budget projection for 2009 and 2010 submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in an act of 21 February 2008. The Committee discussed the proposal for a state budget as an interested working body. In its opening statement, the applicant's representative pointed out that the total revenues of the State budget for 2008 were planned from 115.26 billion kuna, to monitor the estimated dynamics of the movement of basic macroeconomic indicators. The specific part of the state budget is made up of software. The Justice Department segment records significant growth in funds in the period 2004-2008. The Justice Ministry's representative stressed that the proposal contains 7.3% increase compared to the 2007 State budget. The Ministry of Justice includes 357 users classified through 14 budget heads. The proposal for a plan was presented through 21 programmes, 65 activities, 53 capital projects and 3 ongoing projects. The increase in budgets primarily refers to investment in infrastructure, judicial reform, the work of the Judicial Academy and significant funds are also planned to equip judicial authorities and the authorities of the prison system and informationisation, the land books and catastra project, the payment of bank loans. The proposal meets the basic needs in the area of justice because the proposal was made in accordance with the specific limit of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In the debate, members of the board gave full support to the 2008 National Budget Proposal by supporting proposals from the Ministry of Justice in implementing the planned programmes and activities, they showed a special interest in capital investments, a project of merger of courts, intellectual services, adjustment of institutions... systems, needs of people with disabilities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After the debate was held, with 6 votes for and 1 vote against, the Committee of Justice decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to bring the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008 with the Proposed Budget projection for 2009 and 2010. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1243	Thank you. On behalf of the Committee on Tourism, Mr. Representative Marin Brkarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1244	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Prime Minister. At its 1st session held on 26 February 2008, the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for the 2008 Budget of the Republic of Croatia with the draft budget for 2009 and 2010 submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia with its act of 21 February 2008. The Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament considered the proposal for a state budget in accordance with Article 140. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as an interested working body in the part relating to the implementation of the tourism development policy and the financing of tourism programmes of importance for the overall economic development of the Republic of Croatia. The introductory explanation and clarification of individual positions and the purpose of the funds contained in the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia in the section concerning the Ministry of Tourism was submitted by Mr Damir Bajs Minister of Tourism of the Republic of Croatia and presented some of the priority tasks in the work and operation of the ministry. In an extensive and substantive debate involving the president, vice-president and present board members, support was given to the newly founded tourism ministry and existing and new projects, with particular reference to the following. That it is necessary to approach the problem of the so - called problem as quickly as possible. tourism land as good for the public interest and in favour of creating conditions for the faster development of tourism and local communities. That it is an unacceptable fact that a multi-year delay in the construction of the golf course is unacceptable, and in order to remove obstacles to this development, it is necessary to submit a proposal for a golf law. In order to consider the possibility of introducing different forms of subsidisation of airlines and individual airline destinations, in line with market competition proposals, that it is necessary to develop and put into place the already existing satellite balance of Croatian tourism, in particular to support the new staff training programme for individual interests in catering, travel agencies, different forms of animation of guests, to fully support the development of a strategy and the main development plan for tourism, with the need to valorise existing resources for the accelerated development of tourism in the continental part of Croatia. Following the debate, the Croatian Parliament is proposed to adopt the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008 with the Proposed projections for 2009 and 2010 as well as the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget for 2008. The proposed conclusion was accepted by most votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1245	Thank you to the chairman of the Tourism Committee. Are there any other representatives of the board? Yeah. Mr. Shime Lucin on behalf of the Committee on National Minorities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1246	My colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a national budget for this year at the 2nd session held on 26 February 2008 and with the Budget projection proposal for 2009 and 2010. The Committee considered the proposal for a state budget as an interested working body. In accordance with its section of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee discussed those parts of the draft budget relating to the funding of programmes and activities aimed at achieving the rights of national minorities, protection and promotion of human rights and support for Croatian minorities in European countries. In principle, the Committee members pointed out the need to review the concept of budget preparation, which should be based on programmes, and to ensure full transparency and evaluation of the financial programmes of the projects. It has been pointed out that such programme planning is foreseen by the Budget Law and that appropriate changes should be made in this regard. In the Committee's part-time work, the interest of a different approach in considering a budget that would not only concern the increase, i.e. the reduction of resources for the part-round of minority associations or individual institutions dealing with these issues but would seek to promote the overall economic and social recovery of the area in which they live, not only the members of national minorities, but also the majority people who need projects and programmes with significant budgetary resources to encourage employment and development. It is about areas far from Croatia's average in development and any other respect. If there are no basic infrastructures in this area, if there is no employment and other basic conditions for a decent life, then it is difficult to talk about respect for fundamental, human and minority rights. The debate also noted that the funds for the needs of national minorities when it comes to the largest item related to the financing of associations and national minority institutions were proposed with an increase of 18.9% compared to 2007, which continued to be a positive trend several years ago. There is also a significant increase in funding for the implementation of projects envisaged by the National Programme for Roma and the Decade Action Plan for Roma inclusion, 2005/2015. which will contribute to the affirmation of the Roma community in Croatia and its integration on an equal footing in Croatian society. In the discussion, the Committee members also pointed to a reduction in funds for disabled persons, in the position of the Ministry of Health and Social Care relating to compensation for assistance and care, one-time assistance and personal disability. Once again, it was pointed out that the need for the Single Law on Hard Disability Supplement to try to sort out the huge differences in the amount of aid and care allowances that people with the same type and degree of disability make in different systems, where these differences are not the result of the established type and degree of disability, but the cause of the disability. It has also been requested to re-imburse a part of the funds in the import of passenger cars, persons with disabilities at the level of paid value added tax that has been abolished for civilian people with disabilities. In particular, it is pointed out that this year all public institutions should have completed works that would facilitate the access of persons with disabilities without providing funds for that purpose in certain budget items. No mention of funds for the Beijing Paralympic Games to be held this year. It is also expressed dissatisfaction with the proposal to reduce the resources of the Office for Human Rights and Civil Society Associations, as well as to reduce health funds in a situation where the budget is overall increasing. As pointed out, fundamental human rights are under threat. The Committee also expressed its dissatisfaction with the budget envisaged, sorry, pleasure, for the proposed budget for the Office of the Attorney General, in particular when it comes to the Office of the Public Attorney. And also when it comes to the child's guardian. It has also been warned that, in accordance with the recommendations of the United Nations, it is necessary to show in particular the means to exercise the rights of the child which has not been done. After the debate was held, the Committee decided, with a majority of votes of 6 votes in favour and 2 against, to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008 with projections of the 2009 and 2010 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1247	Thank you very much. Are there any other representatives of the Committee? There isn't. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, until now 78 have been reported individually, 7 clubs, in my experience and budget, that would be 15 hours without the replicas and corrections and the announcements of the government's representatives, and that should add 2 more, which would be about 1 7 hours. For orientations and expectations of this coming time. I'm opening a debate. The first is on behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club, Mr. Representative Goran Beus-Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1248	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, fellow MPs, MPs. Allow me, on behalf of the Croatian People's Party, to present several more general assessments and objections to the proposal of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008 with the corresponding elements. We also heard something in the explanation of this budget of the so-called the global conditions in which this Budget is adopted, i.e. the opportunities that exist both in the world economy and in our environment, which have a significant impact on macroeconomic indicators which are the basis for the planning of this budget. However, I would ask the question in which our Croatian circumstances bring the State budget for this year. And I would dare say that they are characterized by several important, but unfortunately for Croatia, unfavourable influences on further development of perspective. First of all, this concerns a serious stalemate in the process of negotiating membership in the European Union, as it is in its way disrupting the long-term business plans of our economy that expect more favourable conditions for exit to the European market. But it also expects an active policy to negotiate the Croatian government in the protection of Croatian national, particularly economic interests. This also means that the government's expectations for these negotiations to ensure more favourable conditions for exit to the European Union market are also high. Unfortunately, so far we have not been able to hear anything, nor have we agreed first, and then find out what conditions are optimal for making it more painless to adapt market conditions and rules that will catch up to us when we become a member of the European Union's family, and to prepare ourselves, in time, to educate, to train, to strengthen, to adapt these new conditions. I remind you that only two chapters in these negotiations have been temporarily closed, and an extremely large number of open issues are still waiting as the Government is mostly waiting for European negotiators to prescribe criteria for us, rather than taking care of our own interests and possibilities, setting our own standards, which will be sharper than Europeans, if necessary, in order to lead a proactive policy in this process rather than simply a requirement to fulfil our domestic tasks. Until further notice, this process is covered by certain uncertainty, and that only pleases the entry of speculant capital into our market and the capital used by the fact that we are not yet part of the European Union in order to make extra profits with fast investment and crafts. Nor are banks in debt on the foreign market at one interest, domestically placing loans on citizens by another. Nor do foreign trade chains where workers work under very difficult conditions and for inaccessible small wages. Furthermore, this budget shall be adopted for objective reasons with a full two-month delay. This has made it difficult to plan financially for the whole public sector, which will therefore delay itself or possibly seriously reduce the envisaged development projects. And in many cases, due to uncertain sources of finance in the state sector and because of some delay in the implementation of the new Public Procurement Act, it will also affect the delay of numerous tenders for capital investment. Especially those projects where local and regional self-government needs direct assistance from the state. The government also acknowledged in this budget that its development policy was unable to generate the growth of a 6% gross social product as defined in its programme, so the factor corrected it to 4 to 4 and a half. And the problem so far-registered and threatening inflation, which the government optimistically estimates to 5.2% for this year seriously threatens to devalue capital as it reduces the purchasing power of the population and directly threatens the standard of citizens. In such circumstances it is expected to expect a trend of stagnation in some types of consumption, and this directly affects the realization of planned tax revenues. I would remind you, speaking of taxes, that the HSS and HSLS coalition in its pre-election programme has announced amendments to as many as six tax laws. That, according to the draft of this budget, has nothing to do with it. But neither in the coming years since we have a budget projection until 2010 last week, the prime minister said on a parliamentary issue that the government would consider reducing VAT. Now it turns out he was really telling the truth. Not only will he think in 2008 but he'll think for four years. We from the HNS expected the government to show clearly the methods and measures it intends to encourage the development of the economy, to create new jobs, to reduce the level of corruption in areas that have public money, to increase the efficiency of the judiciary and, in particular, to facilitate the conditions of creating a new value, and then to strengthen the fiscal capacity of the state in order to provide a better service to citizens in the fields of social and health policy. The budgetary policy of our Government obviously has no answer to these challenges, so the proposal that lies ahead does not show the government's willingness to break up with the current practice of budgeting according to the principles of a large consumer whose mind neither is being saved nor rationalised by the state administration. We have before us a proposal for a state budget which is 3 times larger than the one when value added tax was introduced in Croatia. Let us remind ourselves of the state audit data and, in 1997, the state budget was made at the level of about 38 billion kuna. If we respect all the inflation effects, and even if we subtract all the capital investment costs today, the state in Croatia is neither less than two and a half times more expensive and only from the VAT titles, as much as 20% more tax revenues than that year was the total state budget of the Republic of Croatia. If we respect the salary growth in those 10 years, we will again have to ask ourselves whether our administration is really more effective than it was 10 years ago or perhaps under pressure from political interests and the care of the entire army of party merits. Or maybe the money leaks through the fingertips of the state cashiers so that a little bit of work is paid as much as it was actually arranged. At the beginning of last term, the government's respected finance minister announced that the state would tighten the control of the exploitation of mineral raw materials to prevent illegal gravel and rock exploitation. Not only for the protection of nature and water-suppliers, plumbers, but also for the control of those who deprive hundreds of millions of kunas of budget revenue in the name of concession fees from the government and local self-government in front of their noses. What did the state do and what does it do about it? Nothing. Yesterday's newspaper reports us, and today they continue the topic that only in the wider area of Zagreb is the robbery of mineral raw materials at least 30 locations. And that's what the state opposes as many as two state inspectors. Even when interventions by local self-government are achieved to close up the exploitation fields in which illegal pebbles, as was recently the case with Velika Gorica within a few days after the police have closed the gravel shop twice, within a few days, the competent Office of State Administration, the one for the economy issues a document that allows all regulations to continue to be broken and to work in the old ones. And under the auspices of the state, you're doing investment jobs on road construction. Believe it or not, in the area of Posavia, there is an illegal predator against whom more than 20 criminal and criminal charges have been filed so far and nothing has happened to him. I don't know which party he's from, but I know the finance minister knows him personally. When presenting the Government's programme, we are told that there is a serious and consistent decentralisation of funds that will significantly increase the share of local and regional self-government available to public revenues. Last week, the state audit report provided us with information that all the 560 municipalities, cities and counties in Croatia without the City of Zagreb have a slightly higher than 12% of the amount available to the central state. The proposal for this year's state budget does not show that the Government would be real and daily, in order to have any more serious intentions to leave a part of these revenues to those who solve real and daily problems of citizens, or to improve the quality of standards. Look at the effects of last year's so-called. decentralisation, i.e. redistribution of funds collected from income tax and profit tax between state and units of local and regional self-government, will be seen in fact that someone concrete benefited from the redistribution. From the beginning, we from the Croatian People's Party have warned that so-called decentralisation is nothing but redistribution. In fact, the government has increased its share of the income tax collected to municipalities, cities and counties, while retaining its income from profit taxes. Comparing the 2006 budget with the 2008 plan turns out that the state generously left nearly 1 and a half billion kuna to local and regional self-government. However, if we look at how much the central state has planned to collect in 2008 since profit tax revenues, it is seen that it is planning revenue higher by 4.6 billion kuna than in 2006. And when everything is summed up and subtracted, the state budget will profit by 3.1 billion kuna. So much for what the state has given up and for whose benefit so much about decentralisation. The state budget proposal understands that in 2008 only to recover the debt of the central state will it be necessary to allocate around 10 and a half billion kuna. If the debt and 3.2 billion debt is added outside of the budget funds, and 4.9 billion debt, i.e. the claims made by the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance and County Hospitals, the budgets of 560 municipalities, cities and counties including the City of Zagreb in the Republic of Croatia will be higher than all the money available in 2008. Only on interest payments will 5 billion kuna. It should also be reiterated that the central state is planning to be further in charge this year. Only in the foreign capital market is it intended to take a new 5 and a half billion kuna credit by issuing bonds. Furthermore, the budget funds will amount to 467 million kuna. According to the chief state treasurer, neither the finance minister nor the Prime Minister are using their legal right to allocate these funds without the Government in individual amounts of up to 100 and 500000 kuna respectively, but that all decisions on the allocation of budget supplies go to the government. In principle, it's for all praise. But let us remember one of those closed sessions that assigned a few dozen million to the pre-election campaign, when many funds were allocated to society in a very important social spiritual institution. However, the state's chief treasurer says nearly three-quarters of this reserve money is going to be paid off. That's an alarming piece of information. Because this means that about 370 million kunas are lost each year because of the disputes in which its schlemper, irresponsibility, and a poor assessment of the legal consequences of its action are being considered. To compare this money, the 370 million kuna is the same as to add up all municipal, urban and county budgets in the area of Ličko-senjska, Virovitski-podravska and Međimurje County together. So much for the rationality and good management of our government. I'm not going to talk about redistributing the vaults. Something more will be talked about by my colleagues in the debate. However, as a long-standing tourist worker, I cannot show my dissatisfaction and protest that the newly established tourism ministry is this year planned with less than 230 million kuna, and we expect the most from this branch and I will remind it is no less than 4 times less than the next ministry, i.e. the next resort at least. And let me get this straight. The representatives of the Croatian People's Party, unfortunately, cannot support this National Budget Proposal because it is stagnant. It does not show the government's willingness to make serious changes. You can't see the courage to draw lines under certain items that have so far burdened the government's policy. We also don't see a willingness to step radically into helping the economy. We also fear that this budget cannot ensure stable adjustment conditions in Croatia's accession process to the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1249	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Dear representative Dubravka Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1250	Mr. Vice President, I refer to Article 210. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. I am sorry that Mr. Bebic has now left, but President of the Parliament has missed in my opinion to warn Mr. MPs that he has been significantly distracting from the topic by mentioning some facts about personal knowledge. I personally know Mr. Chacic personally, so I'm not with him in some business like he tried to implode to Mr. Secretary Schuker. I find the Rules of Procedure injured.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1251	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1252	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A colleague listed a whole series of incorrect allegations as if he hadn't read this budget. But I'll do a short time three. I'm quoting. “We need to run our own policy, not implement other people’s demands.” This government leads its own policy more than any, because it did not give in to large capital to sell state-owned companies in majority ownership. She didn't sell any on most property. It did not give in to pressure to reduce the burden of the manufacturer on the account of social domicile rights, etc. Second. The state budget is due late, he said. That's not true. It's brought a month before the temporary expires. And third, I quote to the promoter "there is no end to savings and rationalisation". After their budget with a deficit of 6.3% and this in difficult economic conditions with 2.3% should be viewed in a dictionary of foreign words by a colleague, which is a rationalisation under the letter “r”. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1253	The second amendment. Dear Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1254	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The colleague incorrectly claimed that the budget was three times higher than the one in 1997, so he still talked about the 2000 budget, etc. In fact, he should have known that these budgets never showed the costs and expenses of both Croatian highways and Croatian roads and Croatian Institute of Health Insurance and Pensions etc. Therefore, inaccuracy is hardening. The second thing, I'm sorry, but you're not on the city council and I'm sorry you can't stand the fact that Mr. Schuker is the minister of finance in the Croatian government.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1255	Third correction, respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1256	Thank you, Mr. President, Vice President, I'm sorry. In fact, the colleague states that the increased or high costs of court were due to the government’s cremation which is definitely not true. I think a colleague should be reminded that there will still be a great deal of money needed to pay all the costs of unfulfilled collective agreements signed by the former coalition government between 2000 and 2003 in which your colleague and your party participated extensively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1257	Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1258	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, since Mr. Beus is in election education, it's no wonder he's been derailed by a series of mistakes. But I would also like to say that this is an old tried-out system that doesn't work anymore in Croatia, but I would like to remind him that these two predators in Velika Gorica who exist for 30 years have been HNS financiers, but he came to HNS late, so he doesn't know it. But after him for information, the concession register established this government and the Ministry of Finance, and that's the only way to fight for the legal exploitation of mineral raw materials. There's no other way. How long did it take us to get confirmation of concession contracts from you from Velika Gorica? But you also have one seine when we're going to be on local issues, which is being held by a husband of one of your senior officials in the county, so very interesting that you didn't talk about it today, and here you are in the coalition government. If we weren't going to this local part and personal, I'd still say something about the state budget. I had to say this for the reason that Mr. Beus's policy style is even known, he used to have one pseudonym, he's got another one today. By decentralisation, Velika Gorica received 38 million kuna, and when you talk about profit and increase 3.1 billion, then Mr. MP should know that out of that 3.1 billion, only 30% belongs to local self-government units, and of these 30% 70% belongs to the City of Zagreb. So the Great Gorica couldn't possibly get that 38 million if it remained a profit tax. The deficit of the state budget is not 10.9 billion but the deficit of the state budget is 3.8 billion, and 8.5 billion kuna should be used to repay the credits that have been paid back, among other things, during the coalition government. HZZ doesn't owe 4.9 billion. The other thing when you talk about county hospitals then you should know that the debt of county hospitals unfortunately, and that decentralisation law was passed during the coalition government, is the debt that should cover the county and therefore they got a share in income tax. But to say 4.9 billion, not to count what it is, I think it's simply not serious, because you know that all hospitals have a limit and if they make that cost beyond the limit they are basically responsible, but regardless of which the state will cover it and it is not true that the debt of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance or Health is 4.9 billion kuna. But also Mr. Beus should have said that when he spoke about some institutions, they were not any institutions. These are the funds allocated to the Catholic Church, the parishes. However, he also forgets that at the end of the mandate of the Catholic Church coalition government, the coalition government remained in debt to 251 million kuna on the basis of an international contract signed, not on the basis of someone's whim but on the basis of an internationally signed contract between the Croatian government and the Holy See, 251 million. And I think it's very interesting that nobody then asked the question, how the Croatian Church can function, and when money is given to protect cultural monuments, because most churches in Turopolje and elsewhere are monuments of culture, that's the problem. And at the end of the spell and the schlamper. Mr. Beus should know that all these executions are due to the unreasonable decision of the coalition government, on the reduction of wages... About the reduction of salaries, about the failure of pension and health care to overtime Croatian police officers, about the failure to pay salaries to Croatian police officers in areas of special state care as provided for by the law. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You should know that in 2001, the children of employees in the state and public services of the Republic of Croatia were not paid a gift to children, you did not pay them a Christmas card. You should know that you did not pay the Croatian defenders the rights they have, and on the basis of that only in the Ministry of Science last year, over 650 million court duties were paid, not to say how much was in the Ministry of Science, and also for what you denied to Croatian defenders, we have paid 800 million kuna in the past 4 years, and this year we still need to pay one part. So budgets and figures can only be read as they are. And for the end, I left something that basically doesn't know what the budget used to look like. At the time of the introduction of VAT in your budget was not your Croatian Health Insurance Institute, it was not your Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, it was not your Croatian highways, it was not your Croatian roads. So this is included in the budget in 2002, and when you look at the revenue from the basis of the pension contribution, how much income from the health contribution, I'm talking about the revenue side, how much revenue from the fees for Croatian highways and Croatian roads and when you look at the expenditure side of the expenditure on the expenditure of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, when you add the transfer to the Croatian highways, then you will see that it is more than 40% of the budget or if you go down to the level of budget 99. and otherwise there is one known mathematical, actually basic mathematical and economic methodology, when you compare things to the same level, and in order to lower them to the same level, then you have to include what was not then in the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1259	Thank you. A few corrections of incorrect allegations. First, respected representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1260	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister listed the incorrect information that I mentioned two seines that funded the CNS. It's a meal. Never did those two sequins fund the work of the CNS. Furthermore, if it corrects my incorrect assumption that the Croatian Health Insurance Institute is currently on the basis of the required claims, together with the county hospitals, owed 4.9 billion kuna, then I must warn him that it corrects the incorrect allegations made by Minister Milinovic, who spoke at the meeting of the Committee on Labour, Health and Social Policy yesterday. Furthermore, as regards the protection of monuments of the sacral type culture, they are not financed from the reserve but have their items at the Ministry of Culture as well as the payment of certain claims by former civil servants certainly cannot go to the burden of budget reserves but must be shown in other paragraphs as well as payments by court procedures. That's why there are items on every ministry, so it could have been in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1261	Honourable representative Zvonimir Mršić, the next amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1262	Well, Minister Schuker incorrectly said that out of an increase of $3.5 billion in profit tax, 30% belongs to local self-government units. It is true that out of the total income of 8.5 billion would belong to local self-government, which means that it is almost 3 billion. And since local self-government received a billion and 600 million more income taxes and had to pay back 900 million kuna back to income tax, and on the other hand, the state made 3.5 billion more income taxes, it is obvious that local self-government in 2007 achieved 2 billion kuna less tax revenues that remained the old law compared to what we had last year. That's an exact statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1263	Next correction by the respected representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1264	Minister Schuker blames the coalition government for the state's high cost and messy financing for the period from 2000 to 2003. It's completely incorrect. Gentlemen, you have now inherited yourself and are responsible for the state, the functioning of the state back four years. I expect Minister Šuker to blame the Government of Tito – Šubasic by the end of the term of office for this high cost of the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1265	Better than Cvetkovic – Cat. Dear Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1266	... Mr. President. [[Because of the announcement, the speaker does not understand.]] So, exactly something on the trail that my colleague Stazic said, I am correcting the incorrect quote of Minister Shuker who literally said that this is all the result of these irregularities of the performance resulting from the coalition government. The executions came in the last term, and you were also in the government at the time and you were a minister. But it's a smaller part of it than all of us are paying for all the lawlessness that happened by the year 2000. And you should not blame this Tito-Subasic Agreement but perhaps better to call on Turks in the old, good Yugoslav system that blamed the Turks for all the trouble.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1267	Turks? ... The Honorable Agent Iron Flego, the next amendment. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1268	With the same lesson that Minister Schuker taught us, I would give him back a little bit and teach him if it wasn't hard to add up plus and minus. And remind him that the last government that is to blame for what he blames for leaving debts in education and science 64 million kunas if they pay off in the first quarter of 2004, in full amount with interest and court costs below 250 million. And in the achievements of the Ministry of Science and Technology, the Ministry of Science and Technology boasts that it had to pay a billion and 200 million kuna. So calculate the difference and who is to blame for what awaits you today?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1269	Club representative of IDS, respected representative of Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1270	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, the Honorable Mr. Representatives! I'd like to be wrong, but I have an impression, easy to have, but Croatia is in a social crisis, shown by prices, in social crisis, inflation, moral, corruption, political here, now blocking the approximation of the European Union, economic external debt, etc. And now instead of handing out budget candy to satisfy one side of the coalition partner, on the other side of the middle where HDZ received power, instead of telling the people that we have nowhere to go, because today Croatia owes more than 33 billion euros, and in four years we will be obliged as old Greece over 50 billion euros equivalent to 70 billion dollars... What are you excited about? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We're throwing around, we're buying political peace, we're playing drunk billionaires instead of saying there's a time of sobering, this way it can't go on, etc. In 2008, it will certainly be one of the most difficult I would say years after the war, but still better to be in 2008 than to have an entire term of office because of the fear of indemnity. It will be said that the Bible of seven fat and seven skinny cows and seven good and seven bad years also began to apply to Croatia. After the Homeland War, let's take another '99, the NATO attack on SR Yugoslavia when we lost one tourist season, indeed after that Croatia was seven good years old. Since the end of 2007, I'm afraid we've had a rough year ahead of us. So instead of 7% of economic growth as everyone announced in the pre-election campaign, we'll not know, get close to 7% of inflation. Inflation collects products, eats savings, collects loans, crashes the standard, etc. The new government did not even begin to rule, and around it much simply collapses. For the first time, there is also a serious divergence between the president's advisers and the governor of the Croatian National Bank. President-in-Office, Mr. Radosevic literally said in an interview recently that the Croatian National Bank would be exposed to the pressures of very influential groups, perhaps he meant those where Rohatinski worked "Agrokor" before, but also adds that the CNB measures would be aimed at reducing the liquidity of banks, banks, and a firm defence of the exchange rates from depression and not appreciation, etc. Why am I saying that? For export economies in this country, I am talking first of all about Istria, because our exports are twice as big as the export of the Primorje-Gorski County, which has twice as many inhabitants, almost twice as much. Or six times bigger than Zadar County. Thirty times bigger than Dubrovnik County. Now, look. Industry is our first branch. Mahom's exporting her. With it only third place is tourism, which is also 90% of the export product. And gentlemen again, I have the impression that in this country the greatest burden will be paid by those who work. Why am I saying that? If the CNB holds the kuna at 7.25 to 7.35, then someone help the best that Croatia has at the moment and these are exporters. That's the point. Last year we returned 7.8 billion euros. In addition, we had 21 billion-euro imports, a dollar pardon, or a debt service, and we needed about 32 to 33 billion dollars. On the other hand, in tourism, we made a 10 billion dollar circus, the tourism ministry's budget is 228 million kuna, since exporting $11 billion. The incentive for exporters in this budget is shown by an amount of 247 million kuna, 0.3% of the exports achieved, although praise is worth this measure that the economy is going 1.8 billion kuna. Since we're still in charge, let's say 10 billion dollars a year, from the privatisation of a billion dollars... One billion dollars and we somehow manage to service Croatia's dependence on foreign markets but we won't be long. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Finally, Mr Rohatinski also speaks about external liquidity problems and the slowdown of credit growth. And just don't let God happen for Croatia to get into trouble with loan service. People, not to test, would be hungry, literally hungry because the system would fall apart. And why am I saying that? As early as the 11th month in Opatija, President Sanader said that Croatia is not in crisis, that everything is wonderful and I feel that the whole system that was being built in 2007 primarily had a whole series of social rights in it had a time bomb if there was a change of power the burden would be on one new government and of that, the burden today must be normally recovered by Prime Minister Sanader himself. Therefore, the number one measure which the budget does not know must be how to encourage these exporters. Croatia cannot live only on imports of trade because this will end. With the exporters, the budget, if we want to preserve such peace, I don't mean social peace because some union leaders have 39,000 kuna salaries, almost as much as the prime minister makes in two months, I'm already thinking about this civil, political peace here. We need to identify a few of the simplest priorities, clearly encourage these exporters, protect the pension system of that pensioner's dignity, rehabilitate, reform bankrupt health. I can't have counties with their 100, 150, 200 million kuna budgets taking care of general hospitals, I can't. At least the contribution from 15% rose to 16%, but with that 1% going to local self-government for health care. Health has reduced the 2008 budget compared to 2007. All the resistors have increased revenues except for health care, and that's not good. This year, health care will achieve 22 billion 388 million kuna or 0.8% less than in 2007, which is 159 million kuna less. This is likely to replace higher prices of medicines, reviews, higher insurance, etc. And in the end, we're going to have a headache and all of the Apaurins aren't going to help us. We need to take good care of this standard of education. I appeal for Pula to help build a new school that burned down in the fire and which in Croatia will certainly not happen that through one decentralisation we transfer a good part of the social administrative burden to local self-government but also money clearly. What are we doing, though? Instead of saving total revenues are 115.8 billion kuna, income growth is 6.5%, expenditure growth is 5.8%. So, the deficit should stick to 2.3% as in 2007, which is commendable but inflation will be at least 5.5%, economic growth of only 4-4.5% and perhaps less if we ban work on Sundays and so on. Instead of letting people work, we defend them, and sometimes I say that merchants may be in a more difficult position than the workers who work with them. Secondly, Croatia must buy social peace primarily for pensioners. In 2007, 23 thousand 127 people retired, 5,000 more than usual. In addition to inflation, black January 2008 the price has been given another non-famous record. For the first time in history, the average pension was 1998.91 kuna or 38.92% average salary. It was lower than in 2007, it was lower than in 2006, 2005 and a lot of that game with the pensioners. A citizen cannot defend himself from inflation, from an interest blow, from the price, from the cost of life. Our purchasing power is 29th in Europe. Clearly, we know what's behind it, where Europe is and where we are. But I think that someone should answer President Mesic whether we are for ZERP or the European Union, that is also where we should respond. We after we sold the banks, they're clearly owned by foreigners. After exporting to the European Union market 11 billion dollars, we import 22 billion dollars, while foreigners again leave us 5-6 billion euros in tourism, we do not have other alternatives to the European Union. And finally, at the end of the year, the total responsibility of the citizens was EUR 107.8 billion, growing 1.5 billion per month. For the first time, the growth of non-intentional cash loans exceeded the growth of housing loans. And why am I saying that? Because in 2008, it's not an election year. In Opatija, the prime minister made a promise all beautiful, wonderful. I know the Prime Minister was one of the hardest days of my life and I respect that courage to not laugh. And if that speech was and has been electively motivated today, there's no need for us to part rather than simply put our heads together. We are a small country, our gross social product is only 36.5 billion euros or 50 billion euros. There are positive trends. We used to talk about unemployment. And that's where it's supposed to be. We can't have 250,000 people on the stock market and no one will work. What I also support, to clear up what's going on with the fake disabled. I'm reading at the Flash 7 grand 200 people are participating, today we have 7 thousand people with disabilities. I just read that to this crew. ... Okay, it's a lie. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But I'm reading. It's a lie, but I'm reading. I read that this team of 14 who were caught in the diagnosis issued 11,000 of these approvals and 10 thousand 315 false. It was an article that was yesterday. I didn't say it was true. But I'm also asking him to do something here. But before that, let us even release phrases of development, social, balanced budget. The budget is a ratio to the pensioners, to the sick, and that relationship is bad, to the external debt, we're a disaster. The budget is a ratio to budget salaries, and we're not great here. And I dare say in the end that the budget is one message to Istria. In four years, over 40 billion kunas have gone from Istria to the state budget. It came back according to the finance minister's calculations that Mr. Lino Cervar had constantly used 2.7 billion kunas with decentralised funds. At least of all counties, I'm sure. I don't know why that practice continues. I mean, what's here in that budget, General Hospital Pula 15 million kuna, University of Pula, equipment, business facilities 4 million, for school in Rovinj 1 million, regional development of Istria County million and a half, there are still some reconstructions, all together nothing. And so I'm literally asking you to help this school in Pula which recently died in the fire, and once again I'm going to say Istrian County has exports twice the size of the Primorje-Gorski County, which has 100,000 inhabitants more than Istria, at least 6 times the size of Zadar, 30 times the size of Dubrovnik-Neretljanska etc.. I repeat, so let the government not share these candy budgets with its own. It's not just HDZ, HSS, etc., citizens of this country, and it's not just those who fill that budget. Let it stand on a ball with such a practice, not to have some environments like the one that recently broke Eduardo in England. Only this year, one billion euros should be signed for a new weapon. To buy new weapons. I know that only four out-of-date MIGA 21 can fly at this time, but getting 12 new planes is quite brave, as well as getting 10, 12 coastal ships for coast guard, etc. I know, this year, it's going to go out of the budget of 560 million kuna, but if you conclude 1 billion euros in contracts, that's what's going to come to this or any future government sooner or later. And for the end, the cost of life, that is, food. They'll grow, it's natural, we can't get rid of it, we're addicted to imports, and even food, we're expensive, in this country nothing, especially in the country doesn't pay to work. But without bringing the VAT down to the citizens, many will not notice the government's efforts to curb the price of bread and other living goods on food from 22%. I started, not with the governor's criticism, but in order to really appeal to help these exporters, they need gentlemen to help, it's not a game with these 200 and so many million kunas, it just can't. Of course I support those other measures by the governor, price control, budget constraints, less taxes, pay checks to go, I don't know the state by credit outside. This should be supported, but I fear we are ill-written, if we simply burden these exporters in one such way, especially in a country where the price has not been corrected, the currencies of the last ten years and the production prices of those of our exporters formed on foreign markets must be monitored by all these dubiosiss that arise from year to year. I'm saying that among other things, and because of one Cimoz exporting 100 million dollars, three times as much as Dubrovnik-Neretlian County. And I'm really asking these people through certain incentives to try to help, because it depends on survival and creation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1271	Thank you. A few corrections of incorrect allegations. First respected representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1272	Thank you very much, dear Mr. Vice President, my colleague has misquoted, and I quote, 2008 will be the hardest since the war. That's incorrect, because if he just reads this budget, he'll see that the external debt, the share in GDP, is down from 43 to 37%, and that's not worse than better. That GDP is the biggest in the last five years, so, from... 68 grand to 48 grand four years ago, so it's almost 50% already. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The general government deficit is the lowest minus 3% and unemployment fell from 13.8 to 8.9, so it can't be the worst. And another false allegation, he said, health care is, health care is reduced budget from 2007 is not correct, healthcare gets 4.06 more than 2007, but it needs to be read budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1273	Next correction, respected representative Boris Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1274	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I would correct the incorrect allegations of the blockade of Croatia. That's the second time I've heard that before today. That's not true! The truth is, we still have a lot of work to do in the negotiation process. And that would require full cooperation from all political parties, as well as goodwill in Croatia's interest. That's why they're still Dr. Sanader and the late Racan encouraged the draft alliance for Europe. But we ourselves, I must point it out more than so-called. The strict Europe, to which some are called, we highlight some of our faults. And I suggest, and the government's goal is certain, and we all know it, remove it, and they will remove it, and it's been done for a lot of years, and everybody recognizes it, except for the gentlemen out of opposition. And it would be time for those who lost the election to become an honorable opposition, and for everyone to be the end of the great deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1275	Dear Representative Boris Kunst is the next correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1276	Dear Vice President, my colleague, Agent Cain, had a whole series of incorrect allegations. I won't be able to look back on everything because it would take a long time, so I won't mention those allegations that were clearly forecasted by his psychic or fortune-telling abilities for the next period of Croatia. But I must say, it must be an incorrect assumption that 250 thousand unemployed exist at the Employment Service, but that these people do not want to work. Secondly, it is also an incorrect assumption that this government wanted to leave one time bomb in the social area, if the time bomb is that unemployment fell from 300 thousand to 200 and about 60 thousand unemployed today in Croatia, then Mr. MP is wrong. And also, if it's a time bomb that this government supplement on retirement paid off that category of pensioners who retired here since 99th. Also, she returned some of the money to the employers for hiring more difficult employment categories. So it simply states you do not stand, as advocate Cain said.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1277	Next correction, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1278	Mr. President, the Croatian Parliament, I will correct the inaccuracy of fellow Caine, where he claimed that 7 thousand and 200 soldiers participated in the Flash and that there were 7 thousand people with disabilities, which is an absolute inaccuracies that did not stand, because the forces of the Croatian Army, the forces of the Croatian police, the forces of the local authorities, and the forces of the Gresak military-redarity campaign certainly came out 7 thousand people with disabilities who finally got their second-degree solutions, because, as you can see, 43 defenders died and 175 were injured. In a later series of injuries from mental stress and trauma, there must have been more increases and numbers. But the number of 7 thousand 200 soldiers is only from the Croatian Army, not counting the police, not counting the reserve brigades that participated in the military-related operation. So you say it by heart and you don't know the facts. I'm part of a military-redhartic operation flash and I know exactly how it happened and how it happened and what was on the ground.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1279	And the esteemed representative Nevio Šetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1280	Thank you. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, I would like to correct the allegations of Agent Cain. Namely, he said that in the last 4 years, 40 billion left Istria and only 40 billion returned. At least 40 billion, and it only returned 2.7 billion. [[Intruder: Minimum]] I think it's one methodology that I don't know where it's coming from, I don't know, and I want to say that Croatia's unique country is divided into counties, cities and municipalities and when it's learning to function according to what counterpart Cain says, then it would be somewhat different. So he forgot the funds for management, for education, for health care, for the military and so on, and I think it's a methodology that creates only a confusing factor in our country. I also want to say colleague Cain says in one quote and that statistics doesn't hold him water to say Dubrovnik County and Dubrovnik City much less exports, products, products. Then I ask you how the city of Dubrovnik has a budget of 300 million kuna and the whole of Istria County 250? There's something not holding water. 400 million and the Istrian County isn't even 300. So there's something wrong with the sum, and that statistic doesn't hold water, and that's what I wanted to fix.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1281	The Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1282	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We will not react to every step and different opinions because it is a fundamental right in democracy. But some, some things we'll have to react to. Well, here's before I react to something that I don't think is true or that it isn't, that it's not correctly expressed I'll say that I agree with a lot of people that Agent Cain has expressed in his presentation. First of all, when he says that we need to strengthen our exporters, the export-oriented businessmen, and that is something that there is no dispute in Croatia. And for that reason, I have prepared the data because it is extremely important to say that the multiannual trend in exports, the growth of goods exports continued in 2007. And that we'll do anything to make it happen in 2008. And it looks like this, according to statistical data, that in 2007, we reached a rate in dollar values because that is, that is the statistical data of 19.1%, which is the highest export growth rate ever. So growth is compared to 2007 export growth and 2006. 19.1% higher. And that is the highest rate of export growth since Croatia alone. And so it's clear that there's no reason for us from the government, and that's where we all deserve it. First of all, they deserve, of course, that the Government and the Parliament are those who create a legislative, legislative framework and create conditions for the economy to develop and export-oriented. But first of all, the credit goes to these masters who will continue with such an orientation. If such a growth rate continued, a hypothetically-set thesis would now continue if such a growth rate continued and in the next 3 years, exports would reach the amount of the state budget or exceed 100 billion kuna. That's something, that's the goal we have to work on, and we'll work on it. So I wanted to point out how important it is to take care of export-oriented companies, and surely what Minister Shuker said and I will repeat and support it because it was one of our election plans, and surely in the first year we will, perhaps even in the first six months, bring it and propose to the Croatian Parliament, that is to amend that part of the legislation that will allow companies that employ young people as their first job in the first year to be free of health contributions. This will be one of our contributions to both exporters and those who are oriented to the domestic market. So it'll be worth everything. So I'm sure it'll be an extra good measure and she's already been welcomed. Also, when you talk about what I said, I have to react very briefly in Opatija at that counseling session. I didn't say everything was great but I was talking about the results for the year that are really great. Which are the best so far. We can deny it. Someone might like it, someone doesn't have to like it. But they're facts. These are statistical figures that can't be refuted. We can discuss them because they're numbers, and go into the methodology of statistics. We can, let a debate be opened about how statistics in Croatia follow. But then we'll ask why you're opening a debate on statistics when it's good and it confirms the government's successes, and you don't open a debate on statistics when it's not good. So these are statistics, and that's what I was talking about in Opatija. And of course they're great for 2007. And we already know that so great won't be in 2008 for all those many reasons that we've talked about and that we all know together. When it comes to Istrian County, I support this position, I think that what is right, right, which is stated by MP Šetic, I think that Mr. Representative Cain agrees on this, all of our counties have no reason not to treat all of the parishes equally. And I assure you, Mr. Cain, that it is not the exact fact that you have said here twice in your statement that the government is helping those counties or those cities and municipalities where the government is acting by HDZ or our coalition partners. That's just not true. Here's what I'm going to tell you right now, and you guys go ahead and see if he's right. The government in the past term is just the Istrian County in which the HDZ opposition has done more than any government since. She did more than any government until then. And that was until then that Mayor Jakovcic in several interviews admitted it publicly and said it. That he has worked well with this government, and you have said so by other MPs and other leaders of Istrian cities and municipalities that are not members of the ruling coalition have acknowledged it. From the hospital, from the university, from the Master's gas pipeline Pula-Karlovac, who's been waiting for years and you know it as well as I do, to what we promised and we'll stick to that promise to help the regional gas pipeline. That we will continue to go into projects, large projects in Istria to the highway of the "Istrian Ipsylon" and so on. And finally we will be in the government and that is something that has come as a request for both you and representatives of other parties including the Croatian Democratic Community and as a request for you and representatives of other parties including the Croatian Democratic Community. There's a proposal. We will do so if no proposal has come, regardless of our legal obligation, but we will help the school, the burned - down school, “Veli Vrh”. So, from the budget reserve, the government's going to be at that session when one spender arrives, when the project comes to us to see what everything, what is the damage to the fire and to see the project. The government will be assured of a good amount, in a good amount I now cannot say what that amount is and what it will be. But when we see the project, the government will help build the burnt-out High School. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1283	Thank you. A few corrections of incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1284	The Prime Minister's allegations are not correct that the results for 2007 are excellent. Because the net salary in Croatia is 26% of the average salary of the European Union, and prices in Croatia are 70% of the average prices of Europe. 33% of citizens are considered poor, Croatia's population has problems paying those monthly financial commitments, and 1/5 of Croatia's richest citizens earn 4 and a half times as much as a fifth of the poorest. If these are great results I'm really wondering, then what are the bad results for you?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1285	Honorable representative Damir Cain. Correction of the quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1286	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Mr. Prime Minister, I'm holding you in line when it comes to the school in Vela or the Vela Vrh in Pula. If this government had done more for Istria than any other government with the thesis, I do not agree, whether you say it, whether it is pronounced by Jakovcic. Hospital's standing, better said tap in place. The pipeline did come to land, but still no one warms up from that gas. The highway when we're talking about the ipsion, and Istria doesn't have an inch. Wait, I'm correcting the wrong quote! One metre of highways, but that's why the Istrians pay the most expensive tunnel, the most expensive bridge and finally more than 90% of the money made in Istria County goes under the state budget. In one word, the Istrians don't even ask for anything to come back, but only to take less and so much I want to believe that what we all here or the great majority expect to finally decentralize that country and manage our own.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1287	And the esteemed representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1288	It is not true that it is not true that the government only helps those cities and municipalities where HDZ is in power. The chief secretary of the HDZ gave the councils of Sinja an honest offer, saying if they betray the will of the voters who chose them, if they change the party colors, if they move to the side of the HDZ and bring down the power elected by the citizens there only then can they count on money from the state register. If they don't, if they become honest and honorable, if they respect the will of the citizens who chose them from the state money, nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1289	Negative, negative. It's not a correction to an incorrect quote. One other law, one other science. At 11.35, the time for the 10-minute hearing was up. Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go. You got it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1290	I can do as much as I want on behalf of the promoter. Well, that's the Rules of Procedure. You know that, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the promoter, they can come forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1291	No, you can. You may have a provision of the Rules of Procedure that you can read that the Prime Minister or a member of the Government can look back on any assessment, any claim, so now I give my word to the Prime Minister to do so. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1292	And why are you afraid of me saying something? Okay. But I did not want to report on the occasion of the debate, that is, correcting Mr. Trazic's incorrect allegations, but correcting something that Agent Cain said would not remain public. I didn't mean to, I said I wouldn't polimise, but we have to say for the public's sake, Mr. Representative, in the state, it was and that's what we did. Build the Pula-Carlovac bus pipeline, bring the seabed to Pula by sea floor, to land. That's what we did. You say you did and you give us credit, but we have no use for it because it hasn't come to the house yet, but it's not our job. It's the job of cities and county. I beg you to encourage the mayors, Commissioners, if they haven't already made a request for a concession for the network and that's it. We can't worry about that. It's not in our part of the job. Until it was done they couldn't do anything, but now that it's already the bus pipeline in operation, it should now end it. We'll help, I said it even though it's not our job. We'll also help regional gas pipelines, but the gas network, the distribution network, we can't. It is work and tasks and counties and cities and municipalities.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1293	Thank you. A club of representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community. A colleague of Caine's.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1294	A little distribution.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1295	Let's let the kid go, leave it for the big one! Goran Maric, Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Union. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1296	Dear Mr. Vice President, honourable ministers, members of the government, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We are facing the Government of the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008, in which a lot of effort and skill has been made in order to maintain the already targeted direction of the government's economic policy, which is primarily aimed at preserving macroeconomic stability, strengthening the competitiveness of the Croatian economy and the growth of living standards. Since the creation of a state budget is in itself an extremely complex and extensive job and since it is produced in a particular macroeconomic environment, an additional difficult circumstance in the design of the proposed budget was the presence of stronger pressure from the external environment in which Croatia is currently located, and the changed conditions in the real and financial sphere of the external environment. The changed conditions of the environment are most evident in the fact that in 2008 real growth of Croatia's gross domestic product was expected from 4.5% compared to 2007 when GDP registered a real growth of 6.2% in the first quarter of the first quarter, while real GDP growth of 6% is expected for the whole of 2007 and inflation of 5.2% is expected in 2008. However, the proposal for a state budget shows that the Government has reasonably responded to the applied conditions in the environment with a conservative and measured fiscal policy, which specifically indicates a cautious approach to income planning and a very rational and resourceful approach to expenditure planning, i.e. state spending. Such a wise response to the external environment factors has made assumptions for the continuation of Croatia's construction as a country of economic development and progress, assumptions for uniform regional development have been reached, assumptions have been made to promote entrepreneurship and employment, to promote knowledge of excellence. The assumptions for rural development and investments in agriculture, for the development of tourism and preservation of natural and cultural heritage and for strengthening social justice have been realized. At the same time, perhaps most importantly, assumptions have been made for investment in infrastructure and capital projects which largely determine the proposal for a state budget, which are a prerequisite for Croatia's future economic growth. And exactly the most radiant of these long-term investments, the encouraging fact is that the 2008 state budget provides 4.2 billion kuna for transport infrastructure, i.e. 10.8% more than in the last year, and that 3.8 million kuna is provided for capital investments in science and education, in health and social care, in the judiciary, housing of defenders and remaining capital investments, which is 14.10% higher than in 2007. Only capital investment in health and social care in 2008 will increase by 33.4% compared to 2007. With this approach, i.e. by building new schools, health institutions and social care institutions or by restoring them, the government wants to ensure that Croatian citizens are available and to increase the quality of all public services. These 8 billion kunas planned in the 2008 budget for investment in infrastructure and capital projects are a clear indication of the long-term thinking of this government, which is aware that short-term plans and investments only get full meaning and purpose if they are filled with long-term activities and investments. While the developed countries of Europe and the world have built the main infrastructure and capital facilities decades ago, Croatia has been forced by a long-term socialist embrace in which the purpose of economic activity has been to meet social needs, but in a recent era and due to unfortunate war circumstances and consequences of destruction in the Homeland War and now under more unfavourable economic conditions to continue these investments in infrastructure and capital facilities. Such long-term investment decisions are courageous and necessary because they are the cornerstone of growth in economic activity, and thus guaranteeing the continuation of positive developments in the economy and the rise in employment, i.e. the reduction of unemployment. With such a policy of long-term investment, the government shows the sense of responsibility for the future period, but also the sense of responsibility for future generations, picturesquely speaking, and as the responsibility for future generations is expressed by old and caring olivers who can say that olive trees are planted for grandchildren. Nothing of value has been done without a rational approach, and the government's approach to drawing up a proposal for a state budget from which the austerity of state spending is seen is indeed rational because the trend of planning for higher income growth since expenditure growth continues, thus reducing the deficit. The expenditure was higher by 13.8 billion kuna in 2007 compared to 2006 while the planned expenditure in 2008 was only 6.6 billion kuna compared to 2007. At the same time planned revenues in 2008 are 7.1 billion higher than planned in 2007. When the expenditure is excluded from the amount of interest of 5 billion kuna in 2008 representing the debt price, the revenues of the state budget are 1.1 billion higher than expenditure. It therefore encourages the fact that the state covers its income consumption, that even part of the revenue is used to pay off the debt and that the state is in charge exclusively of repaying the loans taken in the past and the payment of securities issued. With additional borrowing and the increase in deficits, Croatia would enter the area of uncertainty, and it would become a certain fact that we would be more in charge of this than the most in charge, Lebanon and Costa Rica. The proposed budget for 2008 reads the government's determination to prepare Croatia better for the upcoming period on its way to the European Union, as it has launched a number of concrete programmes for the development of the competitiveness of Croatian society and a series of reforms by the state administration for less and more efficient administrations. In this context, a strong emphasis is given in the budget to encourage entrepreneurship and improve the entrepreneurship climate. All this confirms planned investments in 2008 in entrepreneurship-enhancing programmes which are 25.74% higher than in 2007. Given the fact that there were only about 6% of highly educated people in Croatia until recently, it is to welcome the government's decision that despite the unfavourable and partly... the economic environment insists on building a knowledge society thus confirming the need to increase the highly educated population, which is a prerequisite for development and increasing competitiveness in the increasingly demanding and complex global labour market. This confirms the proposal for the 2008 budget, in which activities are first shown separately regarding co-financing of lifelong learning programmes and promotion of learning culture with an emphasis on improving the educational structure... for which as many as 17 million kuna are planned, and which is twice as much as the previous year. In these days, the time of open market economies when capital and technology are available to all and when man is the one that makes it an advantage in the competition, the government recognised the key role of education and science in the development of society based on knowledge which confirms the basic characteristics of the 2008 budget, which is investments in science, education and sport in 2008 increased by 933.4 million kuna or 8.7% in relation to the budget achieved in 2007 or 1.27 billion kuna or 12.12% compared to the planned budget in 2007. As a budgetary item in the 2008 State budget, the Fund for the financing of student and student scholarships with 5 million kuna and the Agency for the fight against doping in sport with 5.3 million kuna appears for the first time. The proposal of the state budget and the budget lines for education, culture, science and health in the Federation of BiH, amounting to €28.5 million, also makes clear the government's concerns for Croats outside the country, especially for Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in the most effective way through the construction of capital facilities. I believe that the already implemented investments and reforms in education and the construction of new capital facilities will create assumptions for the full achievement of the basic objective of education, which is to acquire knowledge in values rather than in fact. Proposals for financial plans for 2008 with a proposal for projections for 2009 and 2010 of Croatian Waters, Croatian Highways, State Deposit Insurance Agency and Bank Rehabilitation, Croatian Privatisation Fund, Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund are realistic and feasible. For this reason, the HDZ Club supports this government proposal, both the development and social budget of the State for 2008 and will vote in favour of its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1297	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1298	It's not true what my colleague said, I'm literally quoting... today when capital is available to everyone... Recently, media reported that by quoting exactly the GFK, three-quarters of households in Croatia cannot cover even basic costs, not to quote now everything in detail that is being said. But in any case, even as of last year, compared to last year, household incomes fell from 9% to 7%. Today, workers often don't get, we don't talk about overtimes that are millions, they don't get often, there's a trend of not paying, there's no pay, let alone capital. That's terrible.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1299	Your Honor, Agent Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1300	I would simply have to deny the assumption that a regular scholarship fund first appears. I'd just like to remind you that in 2003 we handed over during the handover of the government, we had four thousand and 87 scholarships. And the question is, after four years of this government, have we reached that level, so regular scholarships for students and students?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1301	On behalf of the HSS Club, a respected representative, Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1302	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia! It is indisputable that the state budget sublimes everything that can be seen at the level of one calendar year as a reflection of policies in a society, as well as with us, which will be implemented at the state level on behalf of elected representatives of all Croatian citizens. It is always of course important for the budget to be developed, but also not to ignore its social component. It is important for us in the country's peasant party that the budget for the village and agriculture fits into the general fiscal frameworks that guarantee the country's continued economic growth, and under the conditions of global challenges such as certain inflation growth in our narrow and wider environment, which we have all witnessed in the past few months. The HSS representative club has been responsiblely involved in the development of this strategic programming document for the upcoming four-year period. The document sets out exactly the priorities, and what came from this framework is the first and most important document, the state budget that we are bringing for this current year. For the Croatian Peasant Party's Club, ensuring the country's balanced and stable economic growth and ensuring the development and social dimension of the budget is equally important to ensure a relatively greater increase in budgetary allocations for agriculture and the village compared to the overall increase in the budget. More than ever, I think we need it right now. We are convinced that all of our citizens are acceptable and the most important reason for such an attitude. It is about the great challenge and the task ahead of us, which is to prepare our country for future membership in the European Union. And in this process, as is known, adaptation is highly demanding, and full reforms cannot be implemented without adequate budgetary support. I would like to stress that this is what has been achieved in the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The agriculture budget under the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development increased by 28% compared to last year. Given the increase in the total state budget of 4.3% and the fact that, from the current part of the Ministry of Agriculture, detached forestry and the water economy, the increase for agriculture by 28% is certainly gained by additional weight. Of course, this is about the budget within which our programme of reconstruction and rebirth of Croatian villages will begin. Our expectation and belief that the next period of funding for agriculture and rural development will increase further, with the resources of national sources playing an important role in pre-accession European Union funds that can be used to a much greater extent than this has been the case so far. I will certainly remain on the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, but I will also stress that the budget support for the development of rural areas for the rebirth of Croatian villages is located in several of the resources of regional development, forestry, water economy, education, infrastructure, health and others. It is already seen at first sight that the agricultural budget for this year is much better structured and is therefore much more transparent. It is easier to monitor future activities and priorities, especially in the part relating to rural development measures for which 456,5 million kuna will be allocated this year, which is significantly more than last year, around 150%. Along with the already existing rural development programmes, significant resources are seen to be allocated to the development of infrastructure, education and education of the rural population. In particular, we place emphasis on young people for whom we want to return to their local environments, preserve cultural heritage and develop small places. The emphasis on rural development measures is a significant step in the current agricultural policy, which has so far allocated funds mainly for production incentives. It is a good thing that, with the increase in rural development funds, there is no reduction in incentives. Incentives have increased by 15.6%. Only consistent implementation of rural development measures can achieve the vitality of rural areas, which guarantees both safety and the long-term future of agriculture. The success of agriculture as an activity depends heavily on adequate living conditions in the local environment. And through various measures, it certainly is necessary to provide. Capital investments and operational programmes for the development of individual agricultural sectors in the previous period have proved to be the best invested funding in development, since investment investments guaranteeing improvement of the structure of agricultural economies and their preparation for equal participation in the demanding global market, so that now capital investments from 25% will be increased to 40%, as this is one of the main measures to increase the competitiveness of economies. For capital investments this year, 270 million kuna will be allocated, which is even 130% more than last year. In addition, a total of 216 million kuna are foreseen for operational programmes, with new investments planned, but this time in all agricultural branches. So far, not all agricultural areas have been covered by incentives. But what was covered, then, was 660 thousand hectares, and through our proposal that was accepted, it will cover 950,000 hectares, which means that we keep our promise, which is that incentives will be paid to everyone and will be paid in time. Of course, everyone knows that early Croatian agriculture cancer is available to agricultural land and that it should certainly be dealt with urgently. This is why adequate mechanisms are being created through this budget through the establishment of the Land Agency as well as significant support for the rounding of agricultural land in Croatia. In the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture four times increased fisheries funds, especially when it comes to the modernisation of the fishing fleet from ZERP as well as the construction of wholesalers. I must also point out that, for this purpose and for the effective implementation of the ZERP, the funds are in other portfolios, in the Ministry of the Sea, the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Regional Development. The Croatian Peasant Party particularly supports the concept of Croatia's declaration free from genetically modified organisms, and therefore it is also important that the budget provides financial resources for the certification of laboratories for the control of genetically modified semen pollutants, and we also support strengthening and inspection services and general control because this is the only way to preserve Croatia as a real little green oasis, which we certainly are today. Of course, this is important not only when it comes to agriculture but when it comes to the development of tourism that finally has its own separate ministry and the tourism funds have increased by 50% compared to last year. In this part, I would particularly like to commend the introduction of measures to encourage rural tourism, which will certainly produce results in this continental part of our area, as well as education in tourism, as well as a final approach to strategic thinking about the development of Croatian tourism. If we want to provide instruments for the placement of agricultural products in tourism, which will certainly increase exports and reduce imports that have crossed all borders a lot, then we expect more budgets in the coming period focused precisely on this segment of integration of blue and green fields. We also welcome the introduction of support for energy efficiency and renewable energy sources that can certainly contribute to the creation of energy independence, which is of paramount importance for each country's stability as well. We also welcome the increase of funds in the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, but we advocate that the funds paid by polluters of space are returned to those units of local self-government where it is pollution or devastation of space and is created because, of course, those people who certainly do not have the same conditions as in places where contaminants do not operate, they do not have to act in some way financially depreciate them and create conditions for normal life. For all of these reasons, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party will support the proposal of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1303	Thank you. Club representatives of HSLS and HSU respected representative Ivan Chehok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1304	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Somehow, it seems to mere coincidence of the budgetary period and its basic internal characteristics. In fact, when we make the budget during the usual period at the end of the year, at the arrival or before Christmas we are directly more luxurious, more luxurious, less careful of all expenditures. Somehow, it seems that this pre-blessed atmosphere was also directly reflected in our desires, appetites, political and other affinities, so the budgets are slightly brighter than the one we are discussing today. This is what we bring in terms of, in times of denial, at a time when we try to give up what we normally don't need in our lives, so I would really call it a user budget, a budget that tries to save where we can save, a budget that tries to curb appetites primarily of expensive state and high state spending, a budget that teaches us all or warns us that we can't live as an age and a fugitive, that we can't spend what we didn't do, that we can't have in the cost of what we don't have in receipts, that we can't spend as drunk billionaires in all living areas that normally belong to the social system as a whole, that we have to give up and that we finally have to be serious and responsible people, as the most legislative body and as a government, so if you want to just as a society together with civil society determine which are primarily developing areas in which we'll invest, where we might increase the areas that we're going to increase in the areas that we're in which we're going to increase the areas that we're going to do. The use of the budget is not just because or because the deficit is contained. He's been trying to contain himself for a few years. The consumer budget is not just because it finally tries to finance everything from the state budget, it tries. The consumer budget is not only because the state is trying to save on those expenditures that can actually be and can be saved by rationality, economics, not by excessive spending, but because of the fact that we are finally aware of the fact that we can really spend what we are doing. And finally it reaches out to us to the fact that I've been talking about for seven years as a representative or eight that unfortunately the share of public government spending in GDP is too high and that the central state when we add local self-government to that, you've seen what the local self-government audit report looks like. And when we add to that extra-account funds and companies, the institutions of this state that still public spending is far beyond our capabilities and that in some way with each year we not only spent what we were doing but actually ate, biting our own substance. And that's why I'm glad we both heard from the Prime Minister and the Minister today that he's trying to tighten his belt. I am pleased, however, that when we look at priorities, i.e. when we try to set up primary areas to deal with, we see that education and science is growing slightly, that investments in small and medium-sized enterprises, craftsmanship, therefore in the living tissue of the economy, have been found in these circumstances and more for culture, in Croatian society, that isolation is growing, now for the first time we have a special ministry and a special resolution of rural development, because Croatia is unfortunately developing unequally regionally. That investments are growing to boost exports and production, to think more about attracting investment, to think more about creating new jobs because employment is growing, rather than about some other areas. I would like to start by saying that the growth in the allocation for education and science, if we look at the first budget projection in 2007, so the 2007 draft budget is not an execution, and the 2008 Budget Proposal, the growth for education and science is 12.2%. Compared to budgeting, growth is only when I speak alone, and it's much more than previous years, but growth is 8.6%. And what I would like to say immediately is that, even during the year, by the end of 2008, I believe that this separation must be as much as 12% as last year. So that's what we should be trying to do. It is good that compared to the first projection in 2007, the first projection is 2008. 12%, it's bad that compared to execution is only 8.6%. And that's why I hope, in some ways, if I can also have an appeal to the government, I ask, I demand, on behalf of HSLS and HSU, that these separations in the execution of the product be the same over 10%. Ladies and gentlemen, Croatia has only three developmental opportunities, is the first education, is the second education and is the third education. When you take today European countries that are about the same economic and sociological structure as Croatia hastily advanced, when you take the European countries that often, either ourselves or others, offer as an example, which are modeled, I will mention, for example, Ireland, Portugal or Greece, then you will see that they did not build expensive infrastructure facilities, that they did not primarily develop a network of roads, that they did not build halls only, that they did not build only municipal buildings, but they primarily invested in education. Ladies and gentlemen of Ireland has a 65km highway only, just 65km from Dublin to Limerit. 65km of highway, but that's why she invested 6 billion euros in education in two years. I'm not going to say that it's not good that we're building highways, I just want to say that when you have this kind of projection of income and expenditure, when you have the left and right side, not politically, but financially, when you have a scale that's extremely sensitive, then we need to know that the primary area that this country needs to finance is and it has to be education and science. Even though maybe it's not always the most costful politically, because you see a highway or a roadway within two years or three, so you can take a picture at the opening, so you can talk about a big pregallery,... successes, but you can't see investment in education within 2 to 3 years, but within 8 to 10, it's an impact return cycle. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But that's why, although long-term it's the most rewarding investment. And this teaches us examples of Ireland or, for example, Greece that decided at one stage of its development, decided, made a decision in Parliament, that around 15% of the population should be employed in development and scientific projects. And they came to that in four years. We never set it up, but with this projection, with growth, with investments in education, with what's said here, I think we're finally moving towards education becoming a strategic primary area that this country is helping. If we still took the possibility of creating a synergy effect of units of local and regional self-government, because synergy is not only co-operation, but synergy means cooperation in the effects, or the synergistic effects, then I would also, from this place, appeal to local self-government units, mayors and mayors to also more separate for education. In Croatia, unfortunately, cities with three shifts are given 40 or 50 million for football clubs that will never survive Europe. We have to ask ourselves a question, not just the Government, but we all have to ask ourselves a question, whether we're going to give for professional football, or whether we're going to give for an education where then amateur sports will be found as one of the funding items. It's similar for other things. Therefore, this is not just a question of prime minister, finance minister, and even the Minister of Education himself, this is a question for all of us. If education becomes our primary area of what will become a fundamental value in our discussions, then we will come to this, not only that the execution of 2007 is 12, but maybe 15%. And then we're on our way. When we look also at the structure of income and expenditure, it is clear to us that, we can expect more or less the expansion of fiscal capacity, what is still available to Croatia, I know that it is not popular to say in such inflationary conditions when the threat of spirals is still at our disposal only excise duties. You all know, especially gentlemen who, in the name or name of all parties that have a social character, that the most social European countries of Scandinavian excise countries finance education and social care. But that's why there's a cigarette or coffee or alcohol that we don't talk about, it's far more than in Croatia. So you have to think there if you're going to sit in a cafe or a restaurant unlike us who now as we speak will see how many people are, sit down in a cafe or go to the squares now and see how many people are in the squares or places like that. The excise duties are that, of course, I don't call for someone not to take me wrong, taxing everything and everything, but taxing luxury absolutely makes me think that's the only thing we have left with this kind of fiscal capacity, and any government will need to think about it as much as popular, unpopularly. What also pleases me is that they finally found funds for the export industry. Ladies and gentlemen, we have not only an unequal economic isolation and an uneven economic growth conditioned by state subsidies but also a regional one. I have nothing against shipbuilding and we have nothing against shipbuilding but equally textile and wood and all other processing industries should come to their own and I am glad that the government also called for a document, a strategic document for the development of the processing industry because without export-oriented industries, without the help of exporters, there is no growth of industrial in Croatia. No new employment, no stronger economic growth. We will continue to have this difficulty in income or in, at moving income, the State budget as well as so far. I therefore believe that the time has indeed come with the educational offensive and for the industrial export offensive, and I think that the government's assistance and the greater resources that are being allocated here are more than welcome. All in all, along with this request to all of us that education, science, culture become the main areas we will talk about, the fundamental values of HSLS and HSU will accept the draft budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1305	Thank you very much. For the correction of the incorrect allegations of MP Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1306	Dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. It is not true that if we ask ourselves a question about priorities, we will solve the problem of education. Because we set priorities, the government has set priorities in the government's work programme. Therefore, we do not address the problem of over-investment in education by asking questions but by supporting or not supporting this Government, or this Budget, which is, as you have quite rightly identified, completely unambitious in terms of education.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1307	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, representative Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1308	Well, I'd like to correct my fellow Czechoko's incorrect allegations that schools are being built in this budget, not halls. There are no new schools in this budget, but we have directly two halls in Zadar and Osijek. Even so, more new halls that will be financed generously from the budget in Varazdin, two in Zagreb and per project of public-private partnership. And if the amount of money that will be given for these 4 halls was invested in primary schools in Croatia, it could be possible for us to have one-way classes in the next 4 years and we are obviously more important to play handball than to have children go to one-way classes. And secondly, the correction of the incorrect assumption that some towns that do not have kindergartens invest in a professional drive, most of all in professional clubs in Croatia has been invested by the government that you supported and which you are now a coalition partner who has forgiven a billion kunas of unpaid taxes to those clubs. With these billions of kunas, 10 new elementary schools or 15 new kindergartens could be built. So instead of building schools and kindergartens your government has forgiven clubs, professional clubs that tax.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1309	A representative of the Czech Republic reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1310	Dear Madam Vice President, Rule 209 of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. That wasn't a rectification of the quote. I didn't say there were supposed halls here, but I was talking about the cycle of school construction going on. That's the first one. Secondly, I didn't mention kindergartens in all the cities. And thirdly, and under these conditions some cities, respected colleagues, have one-of-a-kind classes of 1.5. Varazdin. And you have to ask yourself why your city or some others don't. It's a matter of investment in priorities. And as for the World Handball Championship Hall, it will make the state and all of us far more profit than the price of these halls if we know how to use it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1311	Mr. Chehok, I owe you... I don't think it was about hurting the Rules of Procedure. [[The speaker is away from the microphone, you can't hear.]] Perhaps about a lack of clear understanding of what you said but your intervention was also in line with the Rules of Procedure. And the final correction of the incorrect quote, MP Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1312	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow MP said among other things that Croatia has only 3 chances. That they're education, education and education. One of Croatia's chances and Croatia's greatest chance is decentralisation. It means an increase in the resources and income of local self-government units that are not even spoken of in this budget. I am personally surprised that you are a colleague as well as the mayor of a big city, and in, during the election campaign, it was precisely for the decentralisation of Croatia, I do not understand why this and the coalition budget of this decentralisation are not even D.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1313	Allow me, counselor, allow me. You can't take your word for it before you get it. Let's move on with the debate. It's on behalf of the National Minority Club representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1314	Thank you very much. The Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues of the National Minority Representatives Club in this national budget for this year 2008 recognises the continuation of the trend of greater financial concern for national minorities, especially for their associations. Exactly the point of the grant, I would ask you to use that grant term rather than donation because no one donates, no one does, no one gives anything to anyone in, as a gift but it's about donations. So, just as the grant item for associations here in this budget is experiencing the biggest increase in absolute amounts. So out of 34 million 920 000 in 2007 the grant is growing 18 or 9%, or now it will be 41 million 511 thousand 500 kuna. In other words, from slightly less than 5m euros, to be precise, simpler in amounts they will grow to slightly less than 6m euros and this represents significant growth although it basically does not mean so much because the base remains small. So for 7 and a half percent of the population, six, slightly less than six million euros means very little to meet specific needs. And so I appeal to the Ministry of Finance that in 2009 and the tenth year it does not remain the same as it is predicted in projections but that there is still an increase in funding until it reaches the minimum that is sufficient to satisfy I repeat 7 and a half percent of the population in its own, in their specific social needs. Here an additional question is asked how to define the value of this budget. So whether it's significant or not. Whether it is worth it or not, in relation to and general, and not only to the specific needs of national minorities. There are national minorities with almost endemic deficits in structural needs, even in existential needs. Here we talk first of all about the Roma and the increase in the funding of the Roma and PHARE programmes is large in percentage. This increase is large in percentage, but it is still too small in absolute terms and I would like to point out that Roma who have their own direct, direct representative in the Croatian Parliament must finally become not at all, and by satisfying the existential, structural needs of them must become equal citizens, even if it meant that they are only in Croatia. Because we know that in Europe this problem certainly exists. Not only does it exist, but in some countries discrimination against Roma is growing, not falling. In Croatia we experience the opposite trend, we experience an increase in resources. But still, it is still insufficient and I want to underline this problem because Roma really deserve to be cared for in a way that is not European, better than European. Similarly, we cannot determine how much this budget contributes to solving the problems that have disappeared or which have resulted or have deepened since the 1990s as a consequence of the war, which unfortunately has been fought in these areas. As much as in the areas in which Serbs live, as well as Hungarians, Czechs, Slovaks, and Roma, and in part Italians, how much of this budget increase will actually bring changes, those necessary changes that are sufficient for a decent life. This budget, these changes are not visible from this, in this budget. Maybe there are. Maybe they are, maybe they exist. But the very way that this budget is actually structured does not allow us to know what and what these changes are and how a special developmental publication has been made. We saw it, we got it all in the oatmeal. This is how a special publication should be done and for human, or minority rights, to see how much there is actually a trend in real growth here. I know that, as well as on the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, it has been confirmed by the representative of the Ministry of Finance that in the following budgets it will join thematically. But I'd like to point out right now that it's important, that it and that it might actually be a little bit less of a problem than it looks now at first sight. Because apart from the already analytical that it certainly has in that broader part of the budget that exists in the Ministry of Finance, only using new technologies and indexing various items should actually enable all MPs to classify and structure the data however they consider necessary. And I appeal to the finance minister to get a budget for next year that will allow us to use the simplest computers and see how the budget behaves based on nationality, but also on age and sex, regions, etc. And to simply enable us to have a simpler insight into the various classifications that we will do ourselves. We probably won't have to in the future if we have such a budget I won't have to ask questions that may look and probably are rhetorical. For example, where the funds are because I couldn't find them, and I know they exist, and I know it's a technical question. But I expect an answer from the Minister of Education where the funds for the sports hall of the primary and secondary Italian schools in Pula, for which not only were signed agreements and contracts with the performer, were signed with another country, with Italy at 50%, which gives 50% of the funds. I know those funds exist. It's not possible that they don't exist if they start work, but I'd like to know where they are in this agreement. On the other hand, I can't be satisfied with the importance this government has given some other items. For example, “Edit” publishing house which is the only one in the whole region, this region, has a daily newspaper in one minority language, in the Italian language, but also a donation that is given and a recovery that is foreseen for this publishing house will finally allow us not only to stand on our feet completely but also to start and develop. I repeat, these are the only daily newspapers of a minority in the region and probably beyond. The National Minorities Club eventually feels natural solidarity with Croats outside the country, especially with those who have minority status. Here we can't be satisfied because still the funds for the Croats, it's no demagogy, I'm systematically dealing with e.g. To the Croats in Molize, and that entered into an agreement that I signed with the prime minister. My concern for that population. I continue, these funds are insufficient and I am, even if there is a constitutional provision that should be recognised by the government when it comes to Croats outside the country, not only those in neighbouring countries but throughout the world. They, especially where there are minorities, repeat especially where there are minorities I know what I'm saying, they're not valorized enough. At the end of the improvement of the Ombudsman's status especially of the occupier means a lot to the national minorities, because they are still experiencing a lot of injustice especially, I think where they live, by definition at the local level and the help of a public defender in this case is precious. The fact that he has more resources in both last year and this year is a big deal for us. For the same reasons, however, we do not understand, which is why the funds for the Human Rights Office are being reduced and this decreases by as much as 17.4%. We do not understand where human rights have been resolved to this extent, or where there is so much less injustice that this office needs less money. Finally, the National Minority Club wants to believe that these remarks will be accepted and important for the Ministry of Finance, for the Croatian government and will therefore support the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1315	Thank you very much. It is on behalf of the SDP MPs' Club, the president of the MP club, representative Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1316	Dear colleagues and colleagues I am pleased to begin with, on behalf of the SDP Club, to finally discuss the European Union and the protected ecological fishing band. Today, the European Parliament did so, though, it would be good if before that both the Croatian High House and the public could hear something about it and we could say something, but it is never too late. I will begin by offering the words of a respected representative of the Czech Republic who has devoted a large part of his presentation to education and the importance of education for the progress of the economy, for growth, for prosperity. And we can't be bigger allies than we are when it comes to education. However, if that were indeed the case and if it were indeed the intentions and intensities of this government then the budget would be seen in much larger numbers, in much larger percentages. Unfortunately, you can't even see 10%. So less than announced and much less what it should be and what we would expect if we really wanted to meet the standards of one Ireland. The difference between Ireland and Finland, the Scandinavian countries whose example is also often cited here is that, with much greater separations, they had a meaningful and clear strategy that they want to achieve, and I wonder what Croatia wants to achieve and what this budget says where we are going, what plans, which is the vision of the government and the people who lead it. I don't see it in this budget. We at the SDP Club do not see it in this budget and are ready to discuss it with the gentlemen and representatives of the HDZ and the distinguished representatives of the Government, to see where Croatia is sailing, because this ship is common to us, we do not have another ship and we do not have other crews. So it should be the instrument of economic policy of the budget, you should clearly say what we want and, of course, always say that it is developmental and social and can be nothing else. And in the era, that is, at the time of the free enterprise in which we live today, the state can't do everything, it can't be everything on the state's shoulders, but that course, that course of movement, the state has to give. Otherwise, there is no justification for taking and distributing over 50% of the social product. If you don't have clear visions, then it's a useless job. Developmental, it'll just have to prove it's developmental. He's got social agendas. There are because more than 80% of the budget increases are going to raise pensions and salaries, and that is noble and necessary because of the situation we are in, and the situation is the following: that pensions fall from the average wage and that the purchasing power of the average salaries falls. So there's nothing else we can expect. As successful as the government is at it, that's another question. In December 2007, the average salary was 4,958.00 kuna according to the State Statistics Office. That's an annual growth rate of 4.7%. However, annual inflation was higher than that, it was 5.8%. So the pay damage difference is 1.1%. It is according to statistical indicators for the first time since March 2002 that real purchasing power, the real value of the average salary falls and that is the Croatian reality and therefore is necessary in the budget at least for the budget users to provide funds for an increase in wages. But it's a vicious circle. The government's task and all of us if you let us participate, and I'm sure you'll let us, out of that circle, get Croatia out, try to get it out. There's talk of environmental problems. Indeed, Croatia as a small country and as a small economy lives in the environment and it determines and can often have damage to that environment. Of course, the more the economy is export-oriented, the stronger it is, the more it is based on knowledge, the better it is. However, this knowledge of Croatia does not exist. What knowledge, I ask? What knowledge? What's the Croatian priority? What does Croatia want to be strong in? Ireland knew that. Finland knew that. Does Croatia want strong shipbuilding? Probably. We are a maritious country, a maritious nation, a maritious culture. If I may say so without sounding pretentious, the only Slavic people who have been maritious for thousands of years. They're neither Russians nor Poles, let alone Czechs or anyone else. However, this shipbuilding is in serious...... You're kidding, Furio. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] However, this shipbuilding is in serious trouble, and it is hardly something that generates profit, a real profit that makes Croatia strong and competitive. Is that high-tech? Is it the automotive industry like the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland, Romania? We can't see that either. It's said to be one of the problems of inflation. Inflation is a problem, of course. In itself, however, inflation does not have to be defended by economic growth and progress. It was not in a number of other transition states that had medium or slightly higher inflation, but also high rates of growth and wages that followed that growth rate. Slovenia, the Czech Republic, Poland, Hungary, Slovakia, countries that were viewed 17 years ago in this House as high, and now the relationship is slightly different. So it's not the war that causes all of our lags, is it? On what can the Government build a Croatian economic vertical? Let's say, in these countries that I've listed is a well-known matter of investment in the processing industry, the total investment structure is represented by over 40%, not by accident, over 40%. It's not a heavy industry, it's not the way the Soviet Union industrialized 70 years ago or China today. It's a little more advanced industry. Does that happen on its own or does someone run it? Or does someone have a vision? In Croatia, this percentage is not more than 40% but 15%. And systematically so. About 15%. That's why there's no real money, that's why there's no real wealth, that's why there's no competitiveness, that's why there's no borrowing and borrowing. It was said the other day in Vukovar, there was also an esteemed Prime Minister, about a new development cycle, during social partners' talks. However, even then, this budget does not show what the new development cycle is based on, as its main generators over the past seven years have been state investments, mainly large infrastructure and external borrowing. Both have reached its highest level, and that direction is no longer possible. There's no answer to that either. Energies. The importance of energy. Well, of course it's not good to collect oil and normally it's not good for citizens to feel it in their pockets. And, of course, we don't expect the government to perform miracles like the HDZ government or the HDZ opposition to do that to the coalition government. You can't do wonders if oil collects 100% in a year. However, that is not an excuse enough either because the share of energy and oil in total inflation and as a blow to the Croatian economy is less than it used to be. In more advanced economies that have the dominant structure of services, and in Croatia such, although these services are slightly less advanced and then profits are slightly less high or not high, the share of energy is less than 50 years ago. And that's just one small excuse, but an insufficient excuse for lack of vision, for the lack of what the government's job is to say where this country is headed. And this is seen in tax-laden countries such as Croatia from the budget must be seen. Because the Croatian State takes very much. She's a master and much less a servant. And for that much he takes, he has to give an explanation of why he takes and where he goes. This is not Japan where the tax burden is 30% and the total public consumption is 30% of the total social product. Neither the United States nor the 19th century liberal England with a 10% or 11% share of public spending in the social product. Decentralization. That's what my esteemed colleagues were talking about, first of all, my colleague Cain, and that's nothing in this budget as well. Why are we so insistent on this decentralisation? Because it's a culture of society. This is not an attempt to disintegrate Croatia or break Croatia, weaken, break into tiny pieces. It's a Croatian force. But that way, the path of decentralisation starts from the pocket first and reduces the role of the central government to arbitration and deploys to those she prefers more, and to those less dear to her. And until we agree in the same way that the ones often in this House call, the Irish, the Finnish and the like, that this is the common interest of this country, there is no forward. This will continue to be a expensive, inefficient and corrupt state, but this third is already a completely different story. So there is no vision, there is no clear plan of what Croatian power is in the economy, what is a Croatian product in five or ten years? What is this knowledge that you want with so few increases in education and science? Real but very small and insufficient. Where's Croatia going? Will it be what the Czech Republic is today in ten years? Slovakia? Who are we attracted to? Where's the Croatian force? What kind of education is that? Are these humanistic sciences? Is that technology? We can't see that from this budget. Another word about the taxes that are, is that, as is obviously the most important or one of the most important items from which the budget is filled. We have advocated the election campaign and our programme for capital gains tax. The stock tax, we can call it one way or another, but it's more or less clear what it's about. So the tax on what was earned on capital markets, drawn out and taken for granted in consumption. Croatia does not have that type of tax. That kind of tax has almost all the countries in Europe. They also have the United States, they have countries that are the cradle of liberalism. They say it will choke the Croatian Stock Exchange. And we see these days that this stock market is in trouble from which we hope to break out, but it has nothing to do with that tax. It is an effective and just measure that allows the burden of these expensive countries to be borne equally, not only by workers and workers who work in factories which, therefore, have very little and produce poor exports, not by workers in shops, but by those who earn a lot and need to earn money. But why don't we give the community 10% or 15% of that profit, when in some countries in the West we often call on give a lot more than that? Is that unfair? Is that bad? So we don't want to draw the conclusion that this really suits certain interests. And so now I wouldn't point out examples, just in the last half of the year, how huge profits have been drawn in such a way or not to use such a harsh word earned without paying taxes. It's politics. That's the way we see this society. We're missing it. So it's a new source of income and some kind of instrument of social justice. Not red justice, not black justice, but elementary justice, American, English, Irish, Finnish. It's not here. I know it's not a direct matter of budget, but it's an important political issue. But the budget is politics. Time should be respected. Dear colleagues and colleagues! For all these reasons and a number of other specific ones to be discussed by a number of and addressed members of the SDP club, the SDP club cannot support this agreement. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1317	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have nine corrections of incorrect allegations. I would ask you to stick to your rules of procedure and to limit yourself to an actual correction in your corrections. The first is representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1318	Thank you, Madam Vice President. In fact, counterpart Milanovic compared wage growth and inflation incorrectly claimed that the wages grew 4%, as he said, or slightly higher and that inflation last year was over 5%. It's an incorrect piece of information. You only referred to part of the inflation that applied to the 12th month. Inflation at year-on-year was 2.3%. So that's the exact information. I mean, 2.9, excuse me, 2.9%. You incorrectly claimed that the inflation last year was over 5%. 2.9 is at the level of the whole year. Therefore, do not misstate the data and use it to display something that does not stand. Also, as far as education is concerned. This is the largest growth for education so far, the largest budget growth for education, over 12% as regards the 2007 plan, i.e. this is the 2008 or 8.66% plan compared to the 2007 rebalancing. So, so far, the unprecedented growth for education, the growth of funds. You're saying it's a small or almost no small increase in education, which is truly an incredible inaccuracy and inaccuracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1319	Second correction by MP Krešo Filipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1320	Dear Madam Vice President. Here, my colleague has already corrected the incorrect allegations that I wanted to correct, but I would like to point out here that my colleague Milanovic has made a large number of claims that do not stand. So let's say, about the corruption of the state and corruption in our society. These are some claims that can't be proved now in the form that Mr Milanovic said we are a highly corrupt state. And I would also say about this growth means inflation that was in the previous year of 5.8% said Mr. Milanovic. I think he read the material to know that inflation last year was 2.9% and that the planned inflation for 2008 was 5.2%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1321	It is the turn of representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1322	Thank you, Madam Vice President. At the very beginning of his presentation, he said, "Unfortunately, there is no increase in education."which is not true. In the last four years, education funds amounting to 3.9 billion kuna or even 50% of budgets have increased. I must mention, for elementary schools 43%, medium 44.90%, higher education 65. And I must remind you, colleague Milanovic, if you did not then follow that the rebalancing was reduced in 2003 before the acquisition of the last, or I would say the current Government budget. The budget in higher education was reduced only in one year by 117 million kuna, which was catastrophic for 2003.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1323	Correction of the incorrect allegations by MP Nevenka Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1324	Dear Madam Vice President, members of the government, respected colleagues and colleagues. It is not true that the respected counterpart Milanovic is not aware of the priorities in the field of education and science and that no funds are provided for this area. It is true that there is a vision set out in the documents "The Development Plan for the Education and Education System for 2005-2010." and the "Scientific and Technology Policy of the Republic of Croatia" also for the period from 2006 to 2010, which was supported by the World Bank and approved by significant funds to assist it. There's a vision and there's an insurance fund and there's already everything said about the amount of funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1325	Fifth in a row correction of the incorrect allegations by the representative Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1326	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Here, I will say that the respected representative Milanovic said one inaccuracy largely, and this concerns the budget and the proposals on the items of science and education, which he argued that science and education were neglected in this budget. I will also tell the truth and read well from the budget but I will also return to 2003 that growth in science and education is nothing less than shown here until this proposal for 2008 is 50.48%. That for the 2008 proposal, this growth was 8.66%. My friend, you should read the budget well.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1327	Counselor, your time for correction is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1328	Read it well and do not make any flat-rate statements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1329	Correction of the incorrect alleged representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1330	Thank you. Well, Madam President, I'm correcting one false allegation, say Mr Milanovic, that China is a country with a vision and Croatia is not. In fact, China does well, Mr. Milanovic knows how to base his development on extremely low wages. And what China probably doesn't know has no pension insurance. That's what we're talking to their delegation, not health insurance. So if you want that kind of development here, I think it would be very interesting if you were behind it. Furthermore, another false assumption that the war had no strong influence on the development of the economy. At the end of the 1990s, the failed socialist industry had to be replaced by a new industry, unfortunately the war beside other things that colleagues would say must have prevented it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1331	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect alleged representative Boris Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1332	Dear Madam Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In a number of incorrect allegations, some of them have already been corrected by my colleagues and colleagues. I'll just have one more, and he's referring to an incorrect claim that this government, therefore, I call it an old-new, differing allocation of funds. Mr Milanović, I live very close to the town of Ploč and I am friends with your party colleague Karamatic, go to Ploče, and see what all the records have received in the previous term. It is also true, yes, I was mayor, and in the last term, that I received from your government in four years only 800 thousand kuna for the addition of kindergartens in Vrgorec. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1333	Correction of the incorrect quote, MP Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1334	Thank you, Madam Vice President. On several occasions, counterpart Milanovic said the government has no vision, that it did not say what its vision is. It is simply not true, but whether, among other things, on this document that you have all received here, it is neatly standing here that the budget for the competitiveness of Croatian society, so it is also a vision. The vision is clearly spoken on many, many occasions, that our vision and society of prosperity and justice and knowledge and social security and equality etc.. Therefore, it is not just enough to declare what it is to be a vision but to actually make a budget like that. On the other hand, I think you've lost it, one careless statement too, I don't think there's any other weight in it and it's about war and the consequences of war, when you say, we can't keep calling for war all the time. And at the same time, you noticed how little for education was allocated. So how can we not if there are direct consequences of war, if the direct consequences of war are paid about as much as education costs now. So now we're singled out for education 8% and the direct consequences of the war are somewhere between 8 and 10%. Imagine if we could do that. that we can use it for education which would then be a contribution. [[Intruder: Warning on time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1335	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the corrections of an incorrect quote and exposure on behalf of the Clubs. A proposaler's representative, Finance Minister Ivan Shuker and Educational Minister Primorac reported.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1336	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I must say that as the chairman of the Proposer's Budget I am extremely pleased with the discussion of the representatives of the SDP Club because, in principle, the basic thesis of this Budget is not criticised, however, given that they are not criticised, I believe they are supported. What I would like to say is, perhaps what causes ultimately a different political approach to the management of public finances in the presentation of the SDP Club representatives, there is one particular contradiction. On the one hand, they talk about the need to increase certain expenditures in the State budget, and at the same time they talk about reducing tax duties, these are two things that are very difficult to reconcile, but they are dragging towards one which is an increase in deficits. Because from this together, it can be read that SDP's policy would be an increase in deficits. Since education will say something to my colleague Primorac, I would not like to talk about it, but what I would like to say is that, says the budget is an instrument of economic policy. Well, of course, that the budget is an instrument of economic policy and, practically, is only possible with the budget, the only real instrument for economic policy management. But do you see it from this calculation when talking about the economy. When you look at the size of the increases for the potential of the economy, but I should say that before that we changed and brought for the first time a real law on aids and subsidies which, unfortunately, has not been in Croatia so far. It was just enough for you to be in one economic branch and have the right to support. So, with structural reforms, with a privatisation process that reduces the dependence of the economy on the state budget, it is an instrument for the conduct of a proper economic policy. To talk about the amount of funding for pensions and salaries and to say that wages did not act on inflation is simply not true. We signed an agreement with the social partners at the end of 2006 in which we defined the wage policy in three years, 2008, 2009, 2010, so the growth of wages is 6%, and for the Ministry of Science another special annex to this agreement where certain specificities of scientific employees have been applied. So, with this basis you can't possibly say that the government as much as it is, are fiscal possibilities not taking care of wage policy. But if we're going to talk about pay policy in the private sector, then we need to make it clear that any payout that is not due to increased productivity is an inflation generator. And that's what economic science is all about. So if anyone suggests anything else, it basically generates inflation. It is one thing to talk about inflation going on as it was in Croatia and the other to talk about one planal inflation that the Slovenes had almost 8.9 years old, they had somewhere, if I'm not wrong, 7.8%. But let us not forget what happened to the Slovenians after entering the European Union when that inflation was due to fall. With all the trouble they couldn't reduce it below 7%. So inflation is extremely dangerous, and it should not be a topic of political debate, there should be no topic of daily bids to please either voters or Croatian citizens. Because when you bid on how much inflation there will be, then on the one that raises prices often jumps in and those who have no arguments to raise the price. Here, as a representative of the government and as a representative of the HDZ, I call on representatives of the strongest opposition party to make a consensus on the restructuring of shipbuilding and health reform. Let's show our national consciousness and maturity that we care. These are the two structural reforms that are the most painful, which are the most difficult. If we're really talking about our interest in Croatia, let's sit down together and make these two structural reforms, in the interest of Croatia and in the interest of Croatian citizens. Here it is, a public call from this pay phone, in front of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in front of the HDZ. ... I'd still look back on two things. [[Applause]] One, Mr Milanovic mentioned growth and external responsibility. In our four years, economic growth has not been based on external debt. The state has reduced its share of foreign debt from 34% to 23%. Also, by deciding to be in charge of the domestic market, Croatia gave a strong injection to the Croatian financial market for the first time. And this Croatian financial market certainly would not have developed to this level if the state had not decided to achieve its debt needs on the domestic market and thus to enable development and investment funds and also to enable newly established pension funds to purchase government bonds. And as I was saying this morning when I was talking about the decision to be in charge outside, so at the moment when it is a lack of funds in the financial market for Croatia, we decided that since it is about reprogramming external loans, we are not going to increase Croatia's external debt in such a way to issue 750 million bonds on the international financial market and thus leave the Croatian economy with a larger amount of funds. Tax burden, look when we talk about tax burden, then we need to figure out what taxes are and what contributions are. Croatia has one of the lowest, if not the lowest tax burden in Europe. The effective rate of income tax in Croatia is 8.21%. The nominal profit tax rate in Croatia is 20%. When you take those investment reliefs, for areas of special state concern, your profit tax rate is about 15%. Secondly, we need to be aware of that, and that is a burden on the labour price by contributions. So in one average salary, the burden contributions are 90%, and the income tax and the tax only participates with 10%. But at the end of the year, when we make a balance, then we will see that what is financed from the contribution creates a deficit for the country of 16 billion kuna, and this must be covered by tax revenues. And ultimately decentralisation and capital gains tax. If you want to decentralize something, then first it's about decentralisation of obligations, then it's only about decentralisation of law. Given the system and diversity of Croatia's development, given that you do not have a single system or a unique form of decentralisation in Europe, Croatia has to think very much that there is a huge difference in the development of certain parts of Croatia and that without some fund that will be at the level of the state we cannot talk about decentralisation of funds. Because if you look at the profit tax he is practically concentrated in three large centres; Zagreb, Rijeka, Split. If you're talking about value added tax normally that in those three large centres is the biggest traffic. Therefore, any decentralisation of these funds will again lead to the fact that most of these decentralised funds will go to large and most developed centres and those most unfortunately needing it will not get. Capital gain tax. Look, it was an SDP election program. The voters told me all about it, so I wouldn't be able to do it yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1337	We've also got the Prime Minister on the list, and then we're going to have to correct the incorrect allegations. Up to 10 minutes on behalf of the proposer, they can both. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1338	Dear Madam Vice President, MPs and MPs. Let me just briefly touch in these 10 minutes the basic budget settings regarding science and education but in one way complete. I will try to do so with that vision that is already included in all the strategic documents that are heading towards the European Union but also towards the World Bank with which... This is the fact that Croatia is the most competitive system of education in this part of Europe by 2010 although it is extremely demanding. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In 2003, we start with a budget of 7 billion and 785 million kuna. Today we are talking about a budget of 11 billion and 715 million kuna. If two original budgets are compared, which is what the financiers compare statistically relevant, then it is said that the budget of 10 billion and 400 at the beginning of 2007 increased by 1.27 billion and 12.12%, respectively. If the budget is compared and this is the rebalance at the end of 2007 and the current one, then the increase is the largest again because 933 million or 8.66%. Of course, there was no rebalancing in 2008. However, this increase of almost 51% or 4 billion kuna, together with the credit debt that we continued after the term of office of the former government that started important projects in higher education, is an additional 3 billion kuna. The increase in the credit debt budget is the largest ever in these areas in education or nearly a billion euro over a period of 4 years. And that's a fact in numbers. On the other hand, if we look at what's been done in the last four years. I would say that with these huge separations that cross 51% of the employment of nearly 7,000 people, we here have to highlight the fact that only in primary school is employed by about two thousand and 300 people primarily because of information, learning another foreign language, which becomes a Croatian brand, conducting the "Bolonjski" process. At this point, a thousand and 740. If we look at mandatory secondary education until the first qualification, we are talking about employees of almost 1000. So one whole concept of the investment strategy in 4 years that resulted in 51% increase in the budget we continue more intensively than in earlier years. If we look at an immeasurably important segment, which is a segment of the issue of relations with the social partners. I am pleased to say that the government had the courage and strength in the past term, in this it continues to increase in 2007 totaling 8.12% accumulated, accumulated in 2008 with last year. This increase goes to 17.1%, or in other words, we are approaching the very clear goal of paying a university teacher of 7 and a half thousand to become Croatian Minister's salary over the next 4 years. This is secured by the budget over the next four years or more than less than 4 billion kuna. And it's very important to point out. If we look at individual projects let me mention that high school for everyone, a project that we all support, which is to the pride of the Croatian State or otherwise 4 in exactly 9 years from today we are left without 75 thousand young people who have completed high school. It's just this year we're going I've been told for 10 minutes that I have [[Intruder: Warning on time.]] All right, all right. [[Intruder: In box 10, you can contact again and use]] Then I'll just make one more minute. So I'm just going to say one example. Schoolwork. 288 school facilities built up, built. This year 124 million kuna and one data is extremely important. In the next 4 years, an additional billion kunas to build all school facilities in one direction. Thank you very much, so we'll move on, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1339	Thank you, Minister, for your understanding. We have 3 corrections of the incorrect quote, 4. The first is representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1340	I am correcting the imprecise allegations by Minister Shuker that the SDP is seeking to reduce contributions or taxes and to raise expenditures on salaries and pensions, at the expense of the deficit. You don't understand, and it's incorrect. The SDP makes it clear that it also made proposals for the law that tax redistribution should be carried out. Poor and poor workers disbursement the contributions, and reintroduce the burden of richer Croatian citizens to participate in the public... Speaking of deficits, yes, it should be increased but for development projects, because development projects are a response to the government's economic policy how to resolve Croatia and jobs and higher wages and higher pensions in that part. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And regarding your public call, we will be pleased to discuss with you the shipbuilding and health care that you haven't solved in the last four years.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1341	Correction of the incorrect allegations by MP Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1342	It is incorrect that tax burdens, tax burdens, do not contribute. Our contribution to health insurance is only nominally called contribution. He's practically taxed because he's paid only by employees, and they finance healthcare through that kind of tax money actually for all citizens. If the state were to exempt from tax revenues for health care, then that contribution would not be paid, but would be paid by all employees. And as for the tax burden of salaries, the best telling us is the data recently released that the average salary for 11 months is actually up by 3.6% and net by 2.6%. So one index point grew faster from wages than the pay itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1343	Third correction of the incorrect allegations by MP Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1344	I would correct Mr. Shucker, who, if I understood correctly, is that Croatia must not and cannot carry out decentralisation for a variety of reasons. I think the only chance you said that, the only chance Croatia has is not funds for regional development from which it is divided by certain political principles. We all know very well how it was deployed from these funds. One hundred thousand each, 20 million each. There's also a question in any case and a profit tax. The proposal is and there will be such a proposal that those who now belong exclusively to the state that 30% go to local self-government units, 20% to the county, 29% to the state, and for these decentralised functions that the income tax goes to those 21 from income tax. There is also a VAT issue, and even in neighbouring countries, the VAT goes towards local self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1345	Time. Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1346	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I apologize to my esteemed colleagues, but this is indeed a violation of the Rules of Procedure of Article 210 and Mr. Minister has not spoken of it at all. You were totally talking about something he didn't even mention. So you're the one who voluntarily took the floor and spoke some of your impressions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1347	Another one of the typical situations. This was about decentralisation. The minister spoke of decentralisation, and indeed a widespread correction can be made to the incorrect allegations. And the final correction to the incorrect allegations by Agent Iron Flego.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1348	In his presentation, the coaster presented a whole series of data. Among other things, such an increase in the budget that is happening now has never been achieved. There is indeed an increase in the budget that I do not intend to constantly compare with the previous government. But if we want to compare the last government started with reforms, the last government opened new jobs, etc. If we had kept the pace planned, we wouldn't have grown by 50% but 61%, and the budget today would be 14 billion 958 million kuna, not what it is today.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1349	Thank you very much, everyone. We're starting with an individual debate of MPs. The first is representative Mato Bilnjic. It's in the end. My colleague, you're an old representative!
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1350	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues. In these discussions on the 2008 budget, I have been unable to read anything that is not good and that the 2008 budget is not a developmental, or regional development budget. What interests us on the ground is in these budgets when it comes to Brod-Posavina County and my town Nova Gradiška is economic infrastructure, continuing construction of road, municipal, society. The incentive for employment in this budget is 8%. It could be bigger, but we have to say that our budget is what it is. So, a little bar, lots of crocodiles. We're all looking for all sides of the money, and there's really not enough. In the development of agriculture from where I come from, 32% increased, which is a major advantage and strengthening social justice, keeping the dignity of Croatian defenders of funds increased by 11% and 6 and a half billion, respectively, and my colleagues from the committee who spoke. So, everyone supported and proposed to this High House that we accept the 2008 budget. As an agent, I'll certainly do it, because besides what's in the budget explained money will never be enough. My colleagues who were against the budget failed to convince me that there was something missing, or that there was something missing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1351	Thank you. Ante Kulisic's representative is next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1352	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues. I am pleased to say a few words about the 2008 budget. It is a document that clearly shows that Croatia has a marked path and priority that it does not deviate from. It is difficult for all countries and governments, given the limited resources, to come up with quality programmes that will meet society's most important needs while maintaining development potential. In 2008, the 2008 budget shows that the Government of the Republic of Croatia knows the right measure in view of the possibilities, the need to allocate quality resources to investments in the economy, regional development, science, health, pension system, social giving. Environment conditions change in 2008. We are aware that we are susceptible to external market influences in view of our size, and most importantly, the government is monitoring movements, predicting them and having answers. The answers are seen in this budget and projections for the next two years, as well as in the previous budgets. Let us take an example of a country's deficit whose reduction has been a priority since 2004. It is extremely important to note what the finance minister also points out that in 2006 as a state we operate in plus when interest is taken from expenditure. Interests are the price of debt. And since 2006, we have been in charge exclusively of repaying the debt from the past and paying the interest. Another example is the response to inflation in 2008, by reducing the growth of state spending. In 2007, the country's consumption increased by 13.8 billion compared to 2006. And now, in 2008, the government's expenditure growth of 6.6 billion was planned. That's more than twice as much as last year's growth. All of this shows that the government is carefully managing public revenues. It is carefully drawn not only in savings but also in a good strategic distribution of funds. The funds focus on economic development, uniform regional development, science development, the creation of a society of excellence, information, judicial modernisation, social giving and achieving social justice. It's not just about the story. All of this is supported in the budget by very concrete and exact figures. Education and science alone rose from 7.8 billion kuna in 2003 to 11.7 billion kuna in 2008, up from 50%. It is important to invest in the information of society in education and science for the construction of modern and competitive Croatia. It is about developing information systems, electronic business, establishing computer information infrastructure in primary and secondary schools. Investments have tripled for these programmes since 2004. They increased from 312 million kuna to 950 million kuna. The different programmes are targeted at entrepreneurs who are economic development holders and the reduction of unemployment. For the promotion of entrepreneurship, promotion of exports, development of crafts and production, the development of entrepreneurship zones from the budget has doubled over the last five years. They grew from 950 million kuna to 1.8 billion kuna. It is important to highlight investment in regional development. The budget sets out funds for less developed units of local and regional (regional) self-government, for islands, mountain and mountain areas, areas of special concern. These investments have tripled since 2004. They grew from 597 million kuna to 1.9 billion kuna. Local units through these programmes receive development swings and, with a better and more balanced distribution of revenue introduced since last year, when income tax becomes local budget revenue, they gain the necessary financial potential to start growth and development. In the end, I can conclude that we can be proud that Croatia is going a well-designed and strategical way. We're going in step with time, and we're going faster than other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1353	Thank you. Mr. Dragan Primorac called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1354	Mr. President! I'll just move on to where I left off, those two minutes because it's according to the Rules of Procedure for ten minutes we both had. Never mind, thank you very much. What I think is important to point out, I will talk about targeted projects and the number of targeted projects. One of the key projects that this government is supporting all reasonable people is the introduction of compulsory secondary education to the first qualification. In addition, we increased funds for the interurban transportation of high school students compared to last year by 105 million kuna, provided accommodation in dormitories for new 19 million kunas and definitely with them and textbooks we cover our dynamics, which is eight classes of primary school and two grades of high school. A year later, the third grade, fourth and entire project will be completed within the next two years. The national curricula is one question where there is once again a national consensus, but for the first time in Croatia, the state separates money and funds to make those rules. Within the Council for the National Curriculum, there are persons of all political options but persons who know the system of education. 6 million and 300 are set aside for the construction of the Croatian National Curriculum. Do I have to relate to the question of schoolwork? One of the key problems that Croatia is struggling with is almost impossible in talking to serious ministers to explain to them what the third shift means. Me, and most of you aren't responsible for that third shift. But that third shift really led to the degradation of Croatian education. And after 60 years, the first investment to ensure the construction or addition of 73 school facilities was abolished in 2008 and 2009. These billions of kunas of new ones over the next four years will be largely enough for a part of the school to go to one shift, and thanks to me, I would say to a very wise local self-government policy that more and more recognizes it, we are going so quickly that almost every month the ministry arrives for one request for consent. School equipment. School equipment in the last four years has been intense. Despite this, we do refurbishing equipment, an IT classroom that practically every school in the Republic of Croatia has, we have provided more than 100 million kuna for all primary and secondary schools. 2008. If we look at higher education, here's a lot of us university professors who know the system. See that this increase from 2003 to 2008 is exactly a billion and 43 million kuna or 65%. If you compare the increase in the budget of one Austria or some other countries, then our dynamics are not nearly that big. Of course, they've allocated more resources earlier, they're richer, they've created a system, but what we're doing now, we're getting that system. And it's not easy to do, but a billion kuna or 65% that has grown so many higher education systems in the past then we would be told today that in Croatia every other person has graduated from college, that it has been a dynamic like the last four years. It's a health recruit issue. Of the two thousand 700 scientific money, these are the most excellent young people, a thousand and 700 have hired this government and with the same dynamic we move on. We're continuing politics from earlier. Now it is very important that counterpart Maric spoke about the issue of scholarships. At this point there are about 10,000 scholarships financed by the ministry, but an increase in the untaxable part, which the Ministry of Finance together has made on the Prime Minister's proposal, we have managed to double almost twice this part of the commercial scholarship from top scholarships to others. But what my colleague Maric was saying, he was talking about the Foundation for the Financing of Student and Student Scholarships. It's a whole new moment. The moment of the market because that trust of the economics inside... Two parts of the untaxable are already moving. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The trust at this point has five million kunas. And if you look at the funding from 6 months 2008 to the end of 2008, we are talking if the average scholarship is a thousand kuna on new thousands of scholarships from June to the end of 2008 for the most excellent students and students in the Republic of Croatia. I want to especially highlight something that I believe we all have support. And that's the support for master's and Ph.D. For the first time in the Republic of Croatia we separate direct scholarships according to doctoral studies or the third cycle of 3.5 million kuna. Students' homes. More than 20 years have passed since the construction of the last dormitory. Borongaj, a mile, a mile, a country, we've all given support. About 7,000 beds are missing in Zagreb annually. Money is secured, I want to say it in public today, to build capacity in the new 7,000 beds. We are going according to the model of public private partnership, money is provided for the project documentation, 7,000 new beds in the City of Zagreb. It is the same situation with all other Croatian universities and it is one of the conclusions of the Rector's Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. It's a capital investment issue for universities. We all know that one German raised a university with a university. In the last four years, six new universities founded, 15 thousand students and at this point a budget increase of about 35% to build the university's capacity. I think it's extremely important to highlight the issue of technology. You all know that Croatia has recently been a signator with the most prestigious countries in terms of technology. As far as I know, India has it with America, Croatia. Israel has with Germany and Croatia. And the increase in technology at this time of 40.82% is a huge contribution to development and technology projects, but also to the reason for the integration of science and economy in the Republic of Croatia so necessary. International co-operation, I am pleased to see my Secretary of State, Fuks, because the 15% increase concerns a very large part of the cooperation in the 7th Framework Programme, as Croatia has shown through the 6th Framework Programme that the first state in transition because we have paid 3.5m euros, has withdrawn 12.2m euros. It is the capacity of Croatian scientists. I think that the issue of the National Centre for External Evaluation and Education and there's agreement, we're talking about a state graduate experimental that starts in May of this year, is an increase in the budget of 87% for the state's graduation. The Agency for Science and Higher Education is independent, objective, growing 30.44% but the agency is moving into a quality control system, moving also into a guarantee and what the ministry cannot do, and that is also to be evaluated externally using international experts. The Agency for Adult Education, an increase in the budget of 156% because there was almost nothing, and we know that Croatia started four years ago with 1.2% of the entire population that was within adult education, about today to 2.3%, our goal is to go towards 10%. Sports. In sport special accent we give to school university sport. Almost double budget for the Croatian School Sports Federation. 120 thousand children are involved in sports, our goal is every child in primary and secondary schools to engage in sports, and of course those who are most able to move on. When we analyse the entire budget then at this point he is also quite aggressive within education because we are talking about the period in 2008, and this was a similar comment from our friends from the World Bank, the regional manager who was with me yesterday and where we talked and where they said, Ministers are already talking about the realisation of the budget that we were planning for 2010 and you are already saying that you want to restore the World Bank's terms and that you are starting from 2008 to realize and... So I say publicly, and the World Bank is more than satisfied with the dynamics of this budget and dynamics. [[You don't understand.]] I really didn't want to make one comment, but I have to say it. And that's that we had the power of 402 million kuna and I don't want to accuse anyone, but I want to say that the shifting work issue, the Christmas issue has been going since 2000, 2001. On the first day of entry into my ministry, we paid 402 million kuna, and together with our social partners 530 we saved with a settlement and released 40,000 lawsuits because it was almost impossible, which is the paralysis of the financial, educational and legal system. If we could have invested that 400 million then there would have been an even bigger miracle. Then this budget wouldn't now be 51% increase, but it would be as much as you said, about 60%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1355	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1356	Well, I'd like to correct one quote, and in that correction, I'm not going to call on the previous years, but I'm going to refer to Minister Shuker. I would ask the ruling set to agree whether the budget is aggressive or conservative so as not to cause confusion, confusion and frustration in the assembly, as well as in the public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1357	I don't know what you've fixed, but good. I am notifying MPs and deputies that we will be working continuously without a break and I am notifying that it is possible to submit amendments to the budget by 3:00 tomorrow. Thursday, 15.00 hours. Let's move on. It's Mr. Representative Andri Hebrang's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1358	Honored Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, honored representatives of the government. We have yet another budget that takes place in very characteristic regional and global frameworks. It is marked by an increase in energy prices, marked by a rise in the global price of wheat, marked by drought in areas that are grainy, leading to a break in the financial market, and in these frameworks the Government comes out with a reasonable one, but I would say when we analyse expenditure items, by a very reasonable budget. What is important is that, in such difficult circumstances, the government has not applied the methods that are otherwise applied in the world in such situations, which is that it goes into the deficit of the state budget rather than still keeps it very low and aims to bring it up to 0%. When we look at this macroeconomic framework, then we still don't have to be as pessimistic as some fellow fatalists here have said. In fact, although this is a very difficult economic global and regional situation, we still have well-planned economic indicators. Therefore, industrial production will continue to grow 4.5%, but what should be highlighted in the analysis by this industrial production will grow the most capital products of 11%, 10.8% and these are products that are not spent but entered into production. It means that there is a need for a long-term increase in productivity and this stems from this budget. What's worrying is inflation in December, but I said that inflation of 5.8% is a rise in the one from 2007 to 2.9% because of the reasons we've talked a lot about here. The economic world law of merger vessels and Croatia cannot be spared from this, so such a reasonable budget is welcome at this time. What is optimistic in this budget, it is a further deficit of the state budget, it is a further reduction in the unemployment rate, it is a further increase in gross national income and a further increase in industrial production. On the income side, to go a little bit to the budget strategy, we have a significant increase from profit tax, which is the consequence of not breaking, as some have said, but just speeding up economic development at very low profit rates, profit taxes still have an increase from 8.4 to 9.6 billion this year. The VAT is also rising, excise duty to 9.4%, tobacco has its 3.2 billion, I hope we're going to cut it down a little bit soon. And what's most important are contributions. I would like to explain a little of the misunderstandings that have been heard here or on the contributions of health care. As for the contribution to health care, he does not, of course, cover the expenditure side. That's why the government jumped in every year, last year with a billion, 700 million kuna. So when comparing this year's budget for health care and last year's budget, then we must not compare the implementation of the budget with the plan this year but rather the plan since 2007 with the plan for 2008 because that plan was lower by a billion and 700 million rehabilitations and smaller by 380 million that have spilled from the HZZO into the Labour Insurance and Safety Office. So 2 billion kunas have been overrun in this way. So when you compare and you get down to the common denominator of the plans, then you'll see that the health care received 4,06% more than last year and that they really don't need the kind of statements in the paper that the minister who accepted it is. It is a good minister because 4.06% is a significant increase with the natural recovery of debts the government is considering. When we talk about the budget strategy, we need to look at the expenditure side and how much it has gone towards the development of the economy, as much as it does towards social transfers. I am particularly pleased that with this, we can call it a free restrictive budget because of the conditions I said the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship received more than 10.9%, that entrepreneurship received more 25%, that the increased items for the reform of the energy sector by 25.4%, which is the long-term view of Croatia's development. The increase in the competitiveness of the Croatian economy and industry has received 70.4 million, which is 85% higher. The restructuring and development of branches of industry has received 88% more than or 67 million. We also see the same development trend in the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development where we see that the total increase is 12% and if we add up rural development, fisheries, the promotion in agriculture is as much as 32.6%. So, in the area of the economy and in the area of agriculture, fisheries, the water economy, we see the developmental and this strong developmental elements of this budget, which means that there are no places for the fatalistic forecasts that we have heard here. In particular, Minister Primorac has now spoken, especially needs prominent education, which is most important for Croatia's long-term development, according to all the world's economic experts. He got as much as 6.8% higher for primary school, 12.2% for high school, high school got 8% higher and higher higher higher higher schools 9.7%. So it's a sign that this government is looking far ahead, long-term ahead, which means it's meant to rule long and it's good. On the social side, we see an increase in pensions even though the restrictive budget is 10.4% in all segments. So the social component of the budget here is very prominent. Social programs got more 5.6% in two ministries where they go and the health care said 4.06%. And this story of the budget strategy, which is evident and developmental and social and which retains macroeconomic stability in the global crisis situation, would not be final if they did not finally add a single analysis of the costs of this budget to the consequences of the Homeland War. Or better yet, the consequences of Serbian aggression on the Republic of Croatia. I've made an effort, and for several hours I've been pulling out all the items relating to the Homeland War, so it's time to remind you. The peace of defenders 4.7 billion, support for the programme for the captured and missing billion, position 311 and beyond, exhumation of 7 million victims, care for Croatian defenders one billion 100 billion, housing care for the disabled Homeland War 520 million kuna, Return Programme of refugees and exiled 524 million kuna, reconstruction and construction in the war of damaged housing units 217 million kuna, assistance from the Government of the Republic of Croatia to return Croats to Bosnia and Herzegovina, so exiled Croats 51 million, care for exiles from the Federation of BiH in Croatia 51 million kuna, the care of exiles and refugees, the general item 84 million, the "King Zvonimir" care of exiled 74 million, etc. When I've summed it all up, it's dearly respected colleagues and colleagues of nine billion kunas round, or in percent of the current budget, it's 7.85% of the state budget. It's a higher percentage than the last and last budget, which means that by moving away from the war, the consequences of the war aren't getting cheaper for the budget, they're getting more expensive. And when we take that into account, then we should really congratulate the government for not reaching for an increase in the deficit of the state budget, which has not reached for those measures that would temporarily give political points and in the long run would be very harmful, which has not reached for an increase in foreign debt and has not taken some advice to reduce the economy at the expense of contributions because the reduction of contributions would definitely damage the current social protection enjoyed by the Croatian citizen. When we consider all this, this budget should be accepted, we congratulate the government and hope that it will make many more of these budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1359	Thank you. We've got corrections. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1360	It is incorrect that a fellow representative claimed that there were no fatalistic forecasts. Please remember, in 2000, when you were still talking about Argentine syndrome and then Croatia began to make progress in addition to today's situation, in addition to inflation of more than 5.6% to 5.8% with all this price increase. But you see, that's what you were supposed to talk about, but you and then you can remember on this occasion. Remember that Pinocchio who would no longer stand on the poster when you called them out because his nose of that Pinocchio would be up to Tokyo today. And of all the prices and price purchases, the most expensive is this price of fog.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1361	I will seek to raise myself less and to correct the rules of procedure, because, according to Article 209(2), the MP must be limited to the correction of what someone else has said in his speech. Otherwise, the president will take away his word, and the representative's speech cannot last longer than one minute. So here, Pinocchio and this, it's not an ID. ... Correction of the incorrect quote, Mr Marin Jurjevic. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1362	It is an incorrect quote from fellow Hebrang, and I quote: "...that this budget is developmental and social.". The fact that this budget is growing nominally and wages and pensions are actually falling is that it is neither socially sensitive nor developed, especially in light of the fact that the economy is stagnating.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1363	Thank you. This looks like a correction. Because it's said, that's what you said, and I don't think that's true. And it's within some kind of... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1364	No, no, no, these are the fact that wages are falling and pensions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1365	Next, Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec, the correction, too, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1366	I'm hoping I can correct the incorrect allegations. My colleague Hebrang called this budget a social one, and he tried to explain it because social giving rises at a rate of 5.6%. At the same time, however, inflation is planned at a rate of 5.2%, therefore, it is a minimal growth, a stagnation of social giving rather than a social budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1367	Thank you. Let's move on. It is up to Mr. Representative Boris Matkovic, whom he does not have, to lose the right to debate on this agenda point. Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1368	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The consolidated central state plans to spend €119.4 billion this year. The number per revenue and expenditure of the state budget for this year as announced and as shown in the public as restrictive but still very high levels, given its share in the gross social product which remains at 40 %, but which could be significantly higher in terms of planned economic growth below 4.5 %. Or how much government itself planned to maintain it, at which level the government planned to hold it this year. However, the initial score of 6% has been adjusted to these modest 4.5, and inflation is estimated to be 5.2, but it is already significantly higher today and threatens to be easily affected by an inflation spiral. And when many of the measures that need to be taken now will not certainly produce more effective, or efficient results. Increased inflation, therefore, slows economic growth. We have heard here today, and even from the representatives of the Government, but here is fellow Hebrang who spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club as it is in his debate, forgive me, that for this one restriction in the budget is wrong, there is a global situation, a global market, many institutions that have nothing to do with Croatia. However, we need to know that the country's economy is responsible for the current government and what economic policy this government is implementing. It has economic policy instruments that remain unclear today as it intends to do so in order to sustain a reasonable growth, so that citizens' standards have increased rather than decreased. However, we have heard that this is why it is wrong for the global market, that, that, that, most of the time, international factors are guilty, of movement in the world, but there is not the government itself, the Government, that is, she has found herself in such a situation as if it all came to her. However, a fundamental question arises, whether this and this budget want to increase the standard of citizens, and what this will mean for the individuals themselves in Croatia. The insight into the budget numbers doesn't say much. It has not been explained in the budget so far that projects in certain ministries are planning, and this is multiplely not good. First of all, do not speak in favour of the transparency of the budget. While we have later in some ministries, in certain ministries when it's spoken of, therefore, some small, small amounts, then the budget is momentary, there we're even talking about a tire of how much money will be allocated this year. So that's one big remark. And it remains, therefore, unclear to whom the state will serve as a supermarket, to whom the state will allow to join the state budget. So the question is right here, which is why the Government did not come up with a tax code, with a proposal for a tax number law, this is also very important for the budget itself, or for the funds in the budget that are allocated to individual groups. But if we had already had this law that was pompously announced and of which it seems, and from which there is nothing, then these transfers would not be related to groups, but certainly to a certain number of groups. Because this particular tax number would give us a clear insight into every state, property of every individual, every citizen, or legal person. But that didn't happen, so the question arises and why? First of all, the budget shows that his third, almost a third, refers to pensions, 33.1 billion, but is these pensions really going to rise or fall realistically? The fact is undeniable in such inflation and in the absence of measures, anti-implatoral ones often accused by the Croatian National Bank itself when it has just warned, as it is clear that the monetary policy measures and instruments that the Croatian National Bank can't substitute all those measures that it can necessarily and must implement by the government of the responsible countries. And in what situation, therefore, when the idea of the budget was discussed at all, it should be taken into account that three quarters of households in Croatia cannot cover the basic costs. That the average household had about 6 thousand 370 kuna last year. That the latest analysis of the movement of income and costs in the past year has shown that more than 70% of households in Croatia still have problems covering basic costs because they are less than necessary. That the differences between regions are drastic and large. Zagreb or, say, Lika, Kordun, Banovina. And that in this state of affairs, things will get even deeper, unfortunately. And that's really something to do. The difference between the necessary revenue and the revenue achieved on average is as much as 2 thousand and 550 kuna, which means that the average revenue is 37% higher than that achieved. A huge number of people had additional needs for health care, for education. There's almost no family who doesn't have at least some credit. This is the Croatian reality, although we have heard here that it is every citizen, the capital is offered on the plate. That everyone's available. What we should be very concerned about in the budget is why we have major problems, and this has been more than announced that this will be the case, that Croatia is taking significant measures to combat corruption and organised crime. And it's just corruption itself because it's closely connected. Croatia cannot be simply exposed and shown as a money launderer. Unfortunately, however, this office of ours, I will immediately mention it for the control of money laundering that has been in the Ministry of Finance for a number of years, and for the sake of efficiency or, in order to unite such a struggle, it is necessary to find it in the state's attorney's office itself, and that is in the USKOK itself. Unfortunately, such funds are minor, small and insufficient. We haven't got here for all this time at all a report from that office, and that would be interesting to look at. Few of the population know that such an important and important office even exists. Who lay low and as if his main task was not to do what his own name gave him in the job description. The announced known fight against corruption and the strengthening of judicial reform should also be seen in the funds approved by the Ministry of Justice. Last year it was two billion and 406,000. Now just a slight increase, two billion and 581 thousand and something small. Absolutely not enough. Because how alone, how many government representatives themselves were when they came and when the criticism was discovered, carefully guarded where large funds were announced, however, such minor funds are now perfectly clear that they will not be able to ensure such an adequate struggle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1369	Thank you. Replica Mr. Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1370	My replica relates to the finding of my colleague Ingrid that economic, that one government is primarily responsible for the economic situation in one country. In my opinion, no macroeconomic, global processes and indicators can cloud a concrete situation. This morning, the prime minister said the situation in Croatia is great. And that in 2007, she was great. I think it is time for the government to face the truth that the net salary in Croatia is 26.5% of the salary that is in the European Union today and that at the same time prices are 70% of the same Europe. It's not a great situation at all. She says there is obviously a dichotomy in Croatia. One optics of looking at politicians and, above all, politicians of government and ordinary people who are at risk of an existing "great situation". If 33% of Croatian citizens are considered poor or perceived their situation as the situation in which the poor are located, then it is not a great situation but cynicism when it is said to be in a great situation. If three, so three-quarters of households in Croatia can't stand and have trouble meeting their financial obligations monthly, then it's not a great situation. It's a difficult situation for me to be gentle now. It is a difficult situation but in a great situation there are one-fifth of the richest Croatian citizens who have four and a half times as many as one-fifth of those who are poor.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1371	Although I did not notice that Mrs Ingrid Antičević-Marinović If I hadn't noticed that the lady claimed that it was a great situation... [[I did, I did.]] [[Intruder: Yes, but you must be careful and you will notice.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1372	No, no, no, the prime minister is... This was a replica, and he fit right in the replica. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder: Here's the answer.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1373	Ma'am, ma'am, not Parliament all over She didn't claim to be a great situation, and all the while you were talking about great, it wasn't a great situation. [[/Intruder: Yes, it is. So I'm replicating her by quoting the prime minister.]] Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1374	Thank you, Mr. President. Your defense of what I said was unnecessary because I was just talking about how guilt and guilt is being transferred to any unknown world globalisation, or maybe some mayor in some community raised the price of water. But the government has nothing to do with this range between the world, the world community to the rural community. It's not the government's fault in that vacuum. But this is what I wanted to say. I can agree with my colleague, and that's what I was saying about how three-quarters of the population can't cover the basic costs, how the situation is really difficult. But I also have to defend my colleague Jurjevic here, who said when he said that Croatia was a great situation in Croatia for the past year. It is. But you know who? For foreign capital for which Croatia is a tax haven. His fear is that, for which, perhaps, the ones you hire, which millions of sums, we can afterwards, as to who. And equally for a certain number of clients who are employed so beyond order and order and which really the state sometimes serves as a supermarket. It was great and wonderful for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1375	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Correction of Mr. Andrija Hebrang's incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1376	Thank you very much. A dear colleague in her fine speech used lies. The first false quote. I quote, she said the growth of the economy is below 4.5% planned. No, it's 4.5, and the one below is a little political rhetoric. She said that inflation today is higher than the one planned. That's not true. He's just been down for the last month, thanks to global movements. She said the policy instruments remain unclear. The instruments of this government's economic policy are very clear, from strategy to 2013 to the Ministry of Finance's guidelines on the zero rate of budgetary deficit to restrictive monetary policy, etc. They were never clearer than they are now. And in the end, the Ministry of Finance gave up the Tax Number Act, that there was nothing you said about it. Of course there is. He will be. However, this government has been in place for two years, for two months, and has indeed not been able to pass such a great law without all possible predictions of its consequences. So he's in the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1377	Thank you. Let's move on. It's Mr. Representative Slavko Linic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1378	Mr. President, ministers, government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. In my debate, I will try to pollomise with statements that this budget has been developed and that I would try to pollomise with this setting I will stick to only three macro-economic data, which is an inflation increase of around 5.2%, 4 and a half percent of economic growth and 7 and a half percent of the GDP's current foreign payment account deficit. These three figures show that the budget really isn't developed. We simply fall production, insufficient production, production is particularly insufficient for exports that are necessary for macro-economic stability and, of course, very, very problematic when economic growth is lower than the planned inflation rate. Now let's try to get back to the arguments we found in the macro-economic frameworks. One of the most important is that the cause of the rise in oil prices or I'd say the price of energy because oil goes both derivatives and gas and I'd say electric energy. And now we're going back to the government program that we heard not even 30 days ago in which it is planned for a four-year period just to build a system for energy imports. These are the basic concepts of the Government of the Republic of Croatia when it comes to energy. Now we're going back to history. All two, three years back and we'll see that the whole of Europe has been anxiously discussing oil price trends, that for two years now a price of about $100 per barrel of oil is expected, that the whole of Europe is also looking for and researching which energies to create, produced to sort of resolve the oil impact. That's what I'd say many countries and their governments in Europe have been discussing for several years. He warned the SDP that in Croatia there were no such discussions, that we were neither using nor showing the desire of INA experts, in HEP to offer solutions without the government having dealt with these problems, that we have, in fact, an uninterrupted amount of oil that we use from Croatian sources, that the two refineries are completely outdated technologies, so we are already slowly arriving at 50 percent of the imports of derivatives and we are paying the enormous price of world trends of oil derivatives instead of avoiding that risk in Croatia, that we are simply not aggressive enough in the transport routes of gas and gas locations in Croatia to try to use these own sources. It is the same when we talk about HEP which simply did not offer a strategy to make Croatia an exporter of electricity, but we are still thinking about importing electricity. Yes, it has been four years since the government of Ivo Sanader's mandate, that this important and significant debate on energy and that, however, Croatia has been able to make quality preparations possible for stronger production of its own energy, the deficit for energy imports has been reduced. By the way, make a bigger income. But it's not just a question. Unfortunately, not even in the critical 2008 year that we want to say that we are developmental. The government did not tell us that because of these movements in our environment, the entire INA, HEP, the pipeline, the pipeline, and that it simply tries to give us all Croatian citizens this optimism that by doing more production, we will solve certain negative trends in macro-economic indicators. But not just that. But you can also think investment in energy is an enormous investment. This is an incentive to the economy, as several billion euros in the refinery alone, in the exploitation of oil fields, in pipelines, in new power plants. That's what I'd say new opportunities for Croatian entrepreneurs, for the processing industry, for installers to start and really make it possible not only to grow 4 and a half percent but certainly to grow bigger than planned inflation. Yes, so one government is working on the environment, so one government offers the possibility for Croatian entrepreneurs to think about how they need their own strengths and investments to allow themselves the future I would say for economic activities, for training, for competitiveness to the outside, and therefore security, pay Croatia's citizens. Unfortunately, we don't have a single word in these macro-economic indications about this important information. I don't know if it's worth talking about. Five years of SDP talking about the railroad. The problem of railways and modernization and draws and cargo traffic and passenger traffic. They need to be modernised. They need to be trained for world competition. But it is not only a problem then that we will invest in Croatian railways and have security for railway employees, but it is also a signal for people in Slavonski Brod, in Djura Djakovic, it is a signal to people in Gredel that we are not talking about certain tow workshops in Čakovec, etc. So it's a lot of, uh, Concaru who was supposed to secure all the power equipment, etc. These are then messages that say that the government is fighting and that the government is economically designing security for Croatian businessmen. Unfortunately, we don't have that. And then when we talk about development, development, development, there remains a deficit problem. Well, there's no deficit. HEP, Ina, Cargo, passenger traffic, tow, they're not deficits. They're companies, they don't have an impact on the budget. It's the design of economic policy. And that is why we think there is no such thing, and excuse these companies, because these are companies of interest for the Republic of Croatia, even 100% owners are the state of Croatia and are governed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. That's the problem. Until we start solving them, I'm afraid we won't have the vision we need to solve these problems. Of course, by assessing that there is no development component, that the rate of growth is lower than inflation, in the SDP we are very concerned about what will happen to the salaries. Whether 2008 will be the year when Croatian workers' salaries will not actually rise. That's worrying, because the rate of growth is lower than inflation. And they may be affected by that inflation and there will be no real development and therefore the SDP is talking about the necessity of change and tax policy where they would simply have to perform certain redistributions, and for a poor worker who cannot fulfil all of his obligations does not carry the full burden of financing health except for that part of the state budget, but that we are trying to transfer part of the burden to financial markets by changing tax policy. And they won't, I'm sorry, capital revenues. And it won't endanger the financial markets. He won't. Because development projects, investment will revive financial markets, but stagnation, low economic growth is something that will certainly help financial markets rather than change in tax policy where even richer ones should give something more for public needs in the social world.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1379	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Nedeljko Strikic, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1380	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Honorable Representative Linic has provided more incorrect information, I will correct only some. In Croatia's energy development strategy, I think that indeed the representative is wrong, because the past government, the HDZ government has launched the biggest investment in HEP, which is the construction of the first hydropower plant in the Republic of Croatia, the building plant Lesce and which will be completed in this mandate. In the energy strategy, Mr. Linic also had to say or remember that HDZ had a strategy and bought "White Nights" in Siberia, but of course his government when it came it was sold as unreservable although later, all the media were writing and today these oil fields were very cost-effective, then they were not worth it to Croatia. Furthermore, in the rail infrastructure, the strategy exists and we are all witnessing the design of the railway track, not to mention the gasification where Pula-Karlovac gas pipeline was made and is built according to Dalmatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1381	Correction of the incorrect quote Mr Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1382	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I'm going to correct the incorrect allegations when an esteemed colleague said that this government has done nothing or done anything in the field of energy. This is an absolutely incorrect allegation, so it is a notorious fact that exactly in the field of energy, some fellow spoke about it, in the area of gasification this very government has made it possible for literally Croatia to gasify all its regions, so from Slavonia, Like and Dalmatia, and for the first time precisely under the leadership of this government. I don't think there's a need to talk about other sources of energy and investment in alternative energy sources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1383	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Stjepan Milikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1384	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. A colleague, Linic, incorrectly stated that the Croatian government only builds energy facilities in its programme, which is not true. So mentioned is the Hydrocentre of Lesce, but it is also necessary to say the exploitation of geothermal energy in the Koprivnica-križevci County of Lunjkovec-Kutnjak and, of course, wind power plants and many other sources of energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1385	Thank you. We have one replica, Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1386	With the right of counterpart Linic to point out the problem of energy, i.e. with a special note that the Croatian government does not have an answer for the energy impact. In fact, from the Association of Employers Mr. Popiac recently spoke of it, so he pointed out that advanced countries are thinking and shaping their energy future for the next 20 to 25 years, and that Croatia does not have a full long-term energy future. Similarly, it was pointed out from the profession itself that it is unacceptable precisely that the ultimate energy price, that the ultimate energy price is essentially firmly in the hands of the government and that it has space for several reasons, primarily tax policy which may in this case be both key and most important, therefore also other measures to encourage the development and exploitation of alternative energy sources. But in any case, the price adjustment is just firmly in the hands of the government, but it's perfectly bad when filling the budget is largely based on the taxation of energy. It may also be noted that the domestic economy is in such a situation that it has twice as much energy efficiency as the European Union economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1387	Answer Mr. Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1388	My colleagues, Ingrid, I think they should be optimistic and that the Croatian government will hear suggestions made by economists, which I would say employers from the employers' association, that it is simply necessary at the moment when we are talking about 2008 not only to be satisfied, not to be fascinated only by some indices that talk about macroeconomic sizes but really try to find solutions together to respond to the crisis in the world, the crisis in Europe, in Croatia, would be better quality. So I am still optimistic that the Prime Minister with the entire government will listen to suggestions and try to understand the power in the hands of the Government if companies that have enormous human resources, financial potentials and technical potentials, if they start to contribute to the development of Croatia. If they are launched, use Croatian resources and companies in Croatia to build stronger and more independent energy Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1389	Thank you. Let's move on. It's Mr. Representative Ljubo Jurcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1390	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, members of the Government, representatives, colleagues and colleagues! So here, before I start my budget review, I would just point out that in 2002, at the 10th month, I proposed a strategy to build the gasification of Croatia. And we even made trenches, bought pipes, that's all Pula-Karlovac, it was supposed to be over by the end of 2004, but it was a little later, so it was a little late. ... You didn't know that, but here, now I'm taking this opportunity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And this government ended it. It took them two years to figure it out. ... Yeah, yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay. I'd have a few comments on the budget actually, on the explanation of the budget. There's been a lot of talk about macroeconomic stability. And we define macroeconomic stability as price stability, stability of economic relations with abroad, stability of the budget, unemployment very low and high rates and sustainable economic growth rates. Croatia is now facing a situation where the macroeconomic stability that we may have been guarding has been at stake. We kept or reduced the state budget, maintained low prices. However, prices are now rising. The balance with economic relations with abroad, or foreign trade, is increasing in the deficit. Unemployment is relatively high, and economic growth rates as the next element of macroeconomic stability have begun to decrease. So when the growth rate starts to decrease and when the government predicts it will be, for the next three, four years, planning growth rates between 4 and 4.5% as Mr. Prime Minister said this morning, it is either stagnation or if stagnation results in even increased unemployment, then it is a recession. We can define this budget as a restrictive budget. And that when it comes to inflation, one kind of inflation, then it would be a legitimate policy of the budget. In general, there are two types of inflation. One is inflation due to high demand that cannot be met, so prices are rising. And other types of inflation occur when costs rise. Then the costs rise, they switch to prices etc. When for this, when the first type of inflation is due to high demand then a restrictive budget policy is implemented. However, when there is cost inflation, this policy of the restrictive budget does not help, but is, in fact, getting even more away. So in this situation where we have a stagnation of production and we have inflation, the wrong policy is a restrictive, restrictive policy of the budget. I know it doesn't lie, that responsibility to the finance minister, I say it publicly, so the finance minister must have policies of industrial, regional policy, income and investment that will start the economy. And then they come to the Ministry of Finance and look for funds to launch an economy for higher rates of economic growth. And then the finance minister or the finance ministry is doing a budget that can then be expansional. So in any case, this budget that is restrictive, it will further worsen or increase stagnation that can unfortunately result in a recession in Croatia. As far as the international environment is concerned, it is one explanation that cannot be easily proved or influenced as these documents here explain the state budget. There's a mortgage crisis in America. It's on a long stick and it's hard to prove. It's a very small influence he has. The deterioration of the capital market situation is also difficult to prove precisely or hard to see because our companies are thus financed from bank loans and very little or no capital market. So the situation in the capital market doesn't make things any worse for our companies. It's going to reflect a little bit in interest rates, though. Otherwise, when we talk about the budget and when we look at the recession in a world that is announced eventually, from America, England and Europe, then we see that those countries that have always been against the state's interference through the budget into the economy, we see that they now reach for that instrument. So two, three weeks ago, we heard that the Americans had some measure to stimulate the economy, so the Europeans are thinking about it. And in fact, monetary and fiscal policy is being agreed on how to resolve it. It is usually said and we will talk about it when it comes to the Croatian National Bank's report, that the first line of defence of inflation is the Croatian National Bank or the Central Bank, and the second line of defence inflation is fiscal policy. The second topic mentioned here today as the objective of this budget is competitiveness. Well, it's a little hard to understand here, or it's economically difficult to understand how we aim at increasing competitiveness, meaning increasing the placement of goods, increasing the production that the goods need for placement, and planning lower rates of economic growth. It's actually in collegiate with itself. We promise to increase competitiveness, and the final result we plan to reduce production. On the other hand, increasing competitiveness means reducing production costs. And inflation itself means an increase in production costs. And the increase in the cost of production is falling into prices, and the prices are increasing inflation again. For a small country like Croatia, the situation is even more difficult because competitiveness is measured by how much we export, how much we import. Here we have inflation that will increase the cost of production. Production costs are increasing the price and our goods are now becoming more expensive abroad. In order for it to become competitive abroad, it should then be possible to correct the course down or deficit. However, I know that the course, the prices are the jurisdiction of the National Bank, but still must be in the Law on the Croatian National Bank, there is an article that says that fiscal and monetary policy must co-operate, and now, we have a price increase, we have a rise in the cost of production that will be converted into prices obtained on the world market, and here in this rationale of the state budget it is said more or less explicitly that it will protect the stability of the course. Now the question is, how are we going to achieve competition in Croatia as a small country that is realised on the world market if the cost of exporters rises and their rate remains the same? I know it is difficult to open the topic of the course but I am afraid that Croatia is approaching this situation that the course must not be more sacred than we should actually be the main goal of increasing domestic production because only from increasing domestic production can pay rise, they can grow pensions and then they can raise budget revenues with the same tax burden. Otherwise, this morning, the prime minister said exactly that the rate of export growth is 19% and that is the correct indicator. But he also forgot to mention that the growth in imports was 20%, i.e. in 2007 the foreign-trade balance deficit was 13 and another billion dollars compared to the 2006 deficit, which was 11 billion and 111 million dollars. And actually, the deficit in foreign relations is a real indicator because it's not just enough for exports to grow, it's the balance that I said at the beginning in economic relations with abroad, and that imbalance as far as exporting is concerned was 2006. 11 billion and 111 million, easily remembered and in 2007, it was over 13 billion. So that imbalance is getting worse. And this imbalance, it's excess imports over exports that we can't pay, we have nothing to pay for because we don't have that export except for what we compensate for with tourism 5, 6 billion or 7, 8 billion and that difference is then transferred to external debt, so we can calculate very precisely what the external debt of Croatia will be at the end of this year, and that will be the current external debt plus what we spent more than we make in 2008. So as far as competitiveness is concerned, I am afraid this approach to this budget will not result in an increase in competitiveness, but will result in a reduction in competitiveness. The third point that was highlighted was to bring the European Union closer and closer to NATO. NATO is a purely political issue, the European Union has a political and economic one, so I would say only economically. Our growth rate, as the prime minister said from 4 to 4.5% to 7000 euros per capita of gross domestic product, means an annual increase of 300 euros per capita in Croatia, and 2% as planned to be the growth rate in the European Union on their 30,000 euros per capita is 600 euros. And there is a difference, for 300 euros, Europe is moving away from Croatia and Croatia is becoming increasingly late for Europe. And since time stands out, there is one claim that the deficit reduction will reduce external debt. This has not been shown in the past four years, the Croatian government is reducing the budget deficit, the external debt is growing because the state is not only in charge of its deficit but is in charge of all the institutions of the economic and political system. And finally, fiscal policy hasn't changed so that more and more the poorer will pay the tax, the rich will pay less relatively, the poor will become poorer, the rich will become even richer. In short, it can be said that the budget is neither developmental nor social.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1391	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr Krešimir Cosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1392	I would, however, have to correct the incorrect allegations of the esteemed representative Jurcic, who characterised this budget as restrictive. That's not entirely true. That's what the numbers show. This budget is higher by absolute amounts, this budget is higher by relative amounts. We heard the Minister of Science invests in research and development, education growth. That's one thing. Another thing that isn't just as accurate. The increase in the budget does not regulate or manage the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. The competitiveness of the Croatian economy is achieved through other instruments, not budget instruments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1393	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Branko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1394	Thank you. Mr. President, Mr. Minister, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. My assignment after one professor speaks to another professor, so it's gonna be hard for me. So macroeconomists can hardly talk about this subject significantly differently. But I'm actually going to try to point out one problem that isn't prominent enough today and it concerns the microeconomic aspects and character of this budget. I will not use this attribute as either developmental or social, but I will ask myself and you whether this budget is reformal. What Croatia needs in today's situation is definitely reform, a reform in a whole series of sectors that simply don't have enough courage to start with these processes. What is, in fact, burdening the state to the greatest extent, and what indirectly burdened taxpayers are large social benefits. In some ways we can talk, and this is also mentioned here several times today about the negative effects of public administration's irrationality that definitely requires reform, we always talk about it, but we can't go that way. The third important thing is huge state support. The area in which we are definitely puzzled because our state support in the GDP today participates a dozen times more than the average in the European Union countries. There have already been talks here about the railway, both shipbuilding and other sectors that require a very rapid action. We also read in the papers, we know what the situation is, there are some answers from the European Union, and we definitely don't have enough time to afford ourselves the luxury of not going straight into these structural reforms. But these structural reforms must also be reflected in the budget. That's what I want to talk to you about today. What was already here on several occasions pointed out are what we would say are very modest goals that the government has set before it. I can largely agree with the objectives mentioned by Mr. Prime Minister in the opening speech. However, I must warn you that it is not clear in the budget to the end of the quality or better said potential of investment in what is called the knowledge economy, so neither in the competitiveness of the Croatian economy nor in any qualitative shifts that are expected and related to these reforms that I mentioned earlier. I'm not going to repeat now how much it really is, that somewhere around it is a lower projected rate than what we were thinking just a few months ago, that inflation has grown, that the inevitable slowdown in economic growth compared to the already present monetary measures that, if they don't come across the government's response through fiscal policy will definitely slow down economic growth, and these conservative assessments will become real, too. But that's why we're just pushing for a proactive approach in fiscal policy, and I have to admit in this budget I don't see it. I'll elaborate it a little bit later with specific numbers. I must point out that this inflation problem, not to repeat now all the causes that have led to this, external nature, must be mentioned that we must look at our own inefficientness especially in an economy which, in some short and medium term, can also condition these effects. I'll just mention in principle and let you think about the situation in our agricultural production, somewhere 50% of the total level of agricultural production is of import origin, which is what we have to imagine. I will not talk again about the energy situation and the potential for the development of the energy sector that would compensate part of imported inflation for the rise in energy prices. As with some other aspects, let's say the management of goods stocks, which proved to be very critical at the moment when intervention was due on the market of certain products. And let's say, a very indicative figure in this budget, in this budget proposal, is that not small funds in 2007 are seen on the item of supply management, somewhere as much as 300 million total kunas, and we haven't heard all these days what is really with these stock stocks. So here in 2008 one by 4, 5 times further reduces that amount for stock management. And yet we don't really know what's behind it, and what ideas are behind it. What I could conclude on this topic of the macroeconomic situation, is that there are definitely a lot of problems and my colleague Jurcic said already, that this all smells expensive and of some recession trends. Analysts also mention the concept of staging. However, it is definitely that problems exist, and that certain exits need to be sought, I say to the greatest extent at this point and through fiscal policy. However, I find it even more difficult to think of the late government's reactions to certain trends, because I think that certain fiscal measures in all these previous years would certainly give even greater effects than they can under these conditions today. What was about competitiveness is extremely important. Why? We are ahead of the entry into the European Union, regardless of these problems that are now burdening us in the short term, I really think that before we enter the European Union and one of the fundamental requirements and things written in the contract with the European Union will be that the Croatian economy, a market economy, and that companies operating in that market can cope with competitive pressures on the single European market. Let's just imagine a moment and assess whether all our companies are capable and competitive at the moment to act on that and such a single market. This fiscal policy contained in the budget must contribute to this very quickly in this time in which we expect to join and sign a contract, a final accession contract. But what's going on? The current policy, which is written in the reasons of this budget, comes down to a brief sense that says, government policy is further fiscal consolidation with restrictive monetary measures. We already know that restrictive and monetary measures inevitably lead to several negative side effects. So, the goal is of course to cut prices, stop inflation. But what happens on the other side? First, the liquidity on the money market decreases, interest increases, the cost of our companies, definitely the problem, the problem that needs to be solved in a certain way. This appreciation pressure on the course, as Ljubo said earlier, definitely worsens the position of exporters, we are again creating even greater incentives in the import economy. It's unsustainable. Why is it unsustainable? And it deepens the external trade balance. It leads us to deficits in the balance of payments, that's all the things we can't afford, that leads us to further foreign borrowing, so, growth in debt, and that's the things we want to fight. Now, you see, what is expected of the government? First of all, through fiscal policy because this is the government's main policy, firstly, the government is expected to compensate for part of the increased costs caused by restrictive measures by the CNB. Thus, fiscal policy is closely related to monetary policy. In particular, exporters are in an unfavourable position, and according to them, the policy that the government will lead in the coming period must be even more high-quality. This is unfortunately not visible from this Budget, because you have an HIO item, Croatia's export opening has only 17,5 million kuna available. I really think that this is too little for the importance that exports to Croatia should have for the Croatian economy. But what's going on? There is no fiscal discharge, no indication that this fiscal discharge could occur. In this context, reform and relative reduction of the share of public costs in the overall demand, aggregate demand are actually required. In this context, one who observes more closely what the CNB is doing will certainly understand that the CNB is actually pushing the government to start the reforms mentioned. Because if anyone can adapt in the short term, their policy, then that's exactly the CNB. However, fiscal reforms are far deeper, far harder, very difficult, very difficult to implement. In that sense, the government needs a rephrase budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1395	Time, time is a very important thing, especially today when we have 79 reported, has just been pointed out.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1396	Here, that's the last sentence, so the government needs a rephrase budget. And I hope that this time in 2008 will show and that we will see some new items on the rebalancing of this budget and that we will be much more satisfied and welcome this rebalancing with much more favourable news.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1397	I thank Mr. Representative Greek. The ninth reported individual debate is Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1398	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here I would like a few concrete remarks, a request or an attempt to reform the budget in, in such a way as to meet perhaps some of the needs that exist in the part where I live. I would first point out that Dubrovnik-Zagreb highway, of course, should not be specifically mentioned for Croatia, has changed a lot for the better. Split is in a specific situation. Namely, Split needs at least two dates, normal on that highway, he doesn't have them. There is this current one going from Split via Solin, Klis, Dupolj, so it connects on the highway. And I was about to say something about it first. I think it's necessary to build on this stock that's the most burdened and critical on that date, and that's Solin-Kliss, a fast four-way road. Split as the second largest city in Croatia, especially during the summer periods, is a narrow throat that is almost uncontrollable and de facto when a river of cars reaches the highway to Dugopolj further comes to an unsettled situation unless something is done. That's why I'm proposing to our minister who'll be very happy to accept it, to single out 100 million kunas, that's not normal enough, but to make something work, too, for those works that have already begun to be done, so on the Solin and Clis shares, to build a fast four-way road as part of a highway connection at Dugopol. Another normal compound would actually be across the Wolf's knot. Vučevica is the node leading to a village called Dubbabe and turns out to be a blind road if there is no other function, and another function would be normal to connect to Kaštel via Kaštel or bridge to Split or to Solin which requires construction of the Kozjak tunnel. So I suggest that this is precisely why it would be a second trip towards highways that would be both the fastest de facto and the most logical given the price of this Vučevica node, to single out 50 million kunas for the start of work on project documentation and therefore solve property relations for the construction of Kozjak tunnel. The third to say the biggest problem of Split is, in fact, in the whole part of Trogir to Omis is one great suffocability, but between Split and Omis it is terrible. In this one-mile-long small part of summer, it's been driving for hours, and I suggest that it builds a bypass through the municipality of Postrana, through the municipality of Postrana, it's actually why it's been defined I have to tell the government myself in principle, but it really should be done that in both the budget and construction and the bypass to try to find at least 100 million kuna to work on it. Split is stifled, he is the de facto peninsula one that lives on two shores. It's not just that coast you're looking at when you come from Brač, it's got its other shore, so it's that north coast. I must say that there would be a ferry port that would connect Split with Europe, I mean, first of all, to the freight ferry port and so much of that section towards Kozjak gets even more meaning, and I say it solves the senselessness or questionability of the Vučevica node that leads to a small village called Dubbabe. So that's what this is about. I'd still ask the minister to try to find the funds, they're not big funds. It's really about the minimum resources. Namely, it's Milna on Brač. This place there is a project of a system of draining and disposition of sewers, the settlement Milna which is already, the project is already in project C4 and is being worked on and expected during 2008 to continue the construction of the draining and disposition of sewers, which you know how important it is for everyone special by the sea, especially for an island like Brac, especially for Milna. I therefore ask the Minister to try to find the minimum funds I will later mention, for the road bypass of the settlement Milna na Brač, this project is directly connected and conditioned to continue the construction of this sewer system. In fact, the Milan coast is also a road, in fact the only road through the village of Milna and for the construction of the sewer system is that the northwestern part of the settlement is traffic-cut. The total value of this project is about 5 million and 700 thousand kuna. Milna provided 47% of the funds from the municipality, 2 million and 700 thousand from her own resources. So from the budget, it would be enough to provide 3 million kuna to get rid of it. I mean, who was on Bratsch knows what this is about, it's really about one important thing. And finally, editing the coastal belt of the port of Milna, phase two. And this is directly related to the construction of the sewer system and the resolution of the mill municipality sewer system in part of the maritime goods on the promenade which is actually the longest part of the long-term road and the only road in the village. There would be an expansion of about three metres. The estimated costs are about 3.5 million kuna. Milna made her own resources, so the municipality secured a million kunas. If it were to come to an understanding, it would indeed be with the minimal effort of the Minister who was tampering with this man in Istria, it could be resolved. I'm speaking to you, Minister, and my colleague Cain will be with you in the hallway later. I know he's a representative, but he doesn't have a word right now. I would mention one more thing that is not clear to me that it has not yet been respected in the former budget, but it is still an important thing and it is the problem of the algae "kaluer" so different variants of it that attacks the Croatian Adriatic coast and which is really dangerous, some of these species are very aggressive. It's the Ministry of Culture whose jurisdiction it is. The remaining is the same amount of 845 thousand kuna. It's really I don't know what to call it, funny amount and I suggest 15 million kuna if it's about the Adriatic that we all swear to and who really is the pearl of a world, I really don't think that would be much, and the consequences can be nasty. I would just point out that Croatia lost a lot of money thanks to one strange thing from the pre-accession European Union funds, I will mention only one project that I know, which is that safety project by sea. We lost money there because we actually gave priority information to one of those who competed, so the European Union found out so she said wait, we won't let it, it's not us. It's not normal for someone to get privileged information and that until the contest's over, say, you're gonna win, you're gonna win, before the envelopes open. And then they took all that money away from us. That's where we lost a million and 100,000 euros. Here, if we weren't born in the mood or I don't know how politically, similarly, we'd have a million and 100,000 euros from which we could have built the Milanites to build that road, the bypass, etc., and something to help the town of Split from which I come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1399	Mr. Zivko Nenadić reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1400	Thank you very much. Here, deliberately for the replica that my colleague Jurjevic from Split can answer me. And I don't really have anything special to object to. These projects, quoted by counterpart Jurjevic himself, I actually support. Not to support them, but I'm glad he's supporting them now because we now, this government current and former four years ago, and this new one actually does. I'm glad you mentioned tunnel one, and let's not mention the other, it doesn't matter. That one's gonna work. It was said at the time that none of these tunnels, even of the Holy Rock tunnel as well as this one through Kozjak. And I really agree with you that this is a dispensation of access to Split and, on the other hand, the resuscitation of this Zagorje part, because really as well as the smooth development of the whole of Croatia, we have potential in the Dalmatian Zagora, behind Biokova, behind Mosor, behind Kozjak, there is potential for various drives to be transferred up, and that this more quality and land along the sea alone can be better used for other things, for those that do not exist beyond the hill, I would say so. So, I agree, and I'm glad you came to that, too. But just with one note, that's why I've actually reported the most, and that's that all these projects are actually planned and they're already being done and they're building and the money's going to be as much as it's going to be able to do at the start of project documentation, outreach and other construction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1401	Thank you very much. Representative Marin Jurjevic was expected to report to the reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1402	Nerve! No one happier than me to realize that. I am also glad that the minister can hear here that Nenadic from HDZ and Jurjevic from the SDP understand and agree on these things when it comes to the end from which we come. I would only ask the minister to respect him and to join us, so we can handle it without a problem. It's not enough for you and me. We can be a little bit on you, if it's like we used to be. So, about the money. Zivko, we built it, the government built the highway, we couldn't do it all. Let's get this one around here, make these dates to Split.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1403	Thank you very much. Now it's our guest, Brankica Crlenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1404	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. An analysis of the state budget proposal is regrettable to find that the Sibenik Hospital, regardless of the catastrophic situation in that institution, is not included in the proposal for a state budget this year, so my team is more unclear as to how the solution to the current situation is seen? The General Hospital limit of Sibenik-Knin County is 12 million kuna. Salaries, travel expenses and other obligations to employees are about 11 million kuna. For any hospital to be able to operate without loss, the ratio of wages and material costs in the total cost structure is 60% for wages and 40% for material costs. In listening to the General Hospital of Sibenik-Knin County, this would mean that the limit should be at least 15 million kuna 400 thousand. It is easy to conclude what measures to take. Recover the loss urgently and increase the limit, while the hospital operates in two locations, in Sibenik and Knin, and in the framework of valid contractual capacity. I note that the health care network determines neither the hospital nor the county as the owner but the Ministry of Health and Social Care. So what he says has to pay. Since the problem of the Sibenik hospital is not in excess of employees and unreal consumption but in excess of the agreed capacity, the pavilion type of hospital located in Sibenik with the oldest buildings from 1883, spatial capacities that do not meet the standards and, in part, outdated equipment under the emergency, must be accessed by a complete solution to this problem, which is the construction of a new, modern hospital in Sibenik. Based on experience, based on the standards of some European countries for the needs of a new, general hospital with a total of 320 patients' beds should provide 25 thousand 600 metres of grossly built gross surface area. The question is, what kind of hospital in Knin? The hospital in Knin has ideal conditions for becoming a hospital for prolonged treatment, physical medicine or lung disease. The results of operations on the site of Knin show that the beds of extended treatment are used maximum and that there is also a need to increase the number of beds for this purpose and that the acute beds are unused as such. The established concept fully addresses hospital health care in the Sibenik-Knin County area. All employees are provided, there are no business losses, operating conditions are created in line with European and global trends. However, what do you do with the facilities of the Sibenik-Knin County General Hospital at the Sibenik site that began to collapse? It is necessary to provide from the budget of the Republic of Croatia funds for the adaptation of surgery, gynecology, maternity and ear department. Unfortunately, since it is the same ministry, the social care system cannot be touched. After the development of the Republic of Croatia after the counties of Sibenik-Knin County is 19th place. Due to the 20.8% unemployment rate, the county is in high place by the number of recipients of permanent assistance. The Centre for Social Care Sibenik performs demanding, extremely responsible and difficult work in spatially inadequate conditions in two locations. Today it is the center where the working conditions are the worst in Croatia. It is an old building, with old installations that made it impossible to install air conditioning devices, so working in the summer months is almost impossible. The construction of a new centre in Sibenik is unfortunately not scheduled for the period from 2008 to 2010. It is equally important to mention that during the period 2004-2007, the Centre for Social Care, Sibenik, was neglected as well as regarding the employment of professional workers. The analysis of employment in social care centres to conclude that the social care administration did not take care of the dynamics of employment in social care centres, so some centres hired 15 professionals from 2004 to 2007 such as the Centre for Social Care Zagreb, Zadar as much as 7 while Sibenik was only 2. With 12 other professional workers missing from the Sibenik Center. In Sibenik, a preparatory phase for the construction of a new centre is urgently needed, and this is to begin to find adequate building land and give it to the Ministry of Health and Social Care so that the ceilings as we have the case with the Sibenik hospital are not destroyed in this institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1405	I would like to thank the representatives of Crlenko, and I would like to call for a hearing with the following applicant. Dear Representative Mr Krešimir Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1406	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, please allow a brief review of this budget. The absolute amount of the budget as well as its internal structure is choice, a choice which is mostly dominantly political. It belongs to those who have the highest responsibility for Croatian citizens, those who have received the support and trust of Croatian people with the expectation that this choice of limited state funds will satisfy all the different and very often opposed in the best possible way. conflicting interests of all those involved in a game called the distribution of the state budget. It is therefore a democratic-political right belonging to the party or coalition, i.e. The government that won the election. It's also a responsibility, it's a commitment. In any case, what we most talk about is how to increase something in an item. However, we must certainly be aware of the fact that in game theory, this problem is recognised as a zero-sum game or a final-sum game, and what the consequences of these rules of the game seem to me that we are not too aware in these debates about the state budget. The government has certainly made the choice taking into account not only the political criteria to meet the needs of Croatian citizens and to maximise its chances of winning in future and other elections. for the trust of Croatian voters. The budget can also be seen in different ways as a formal mathematical problem of optimising limited state resources according to certain formal criteria which must respect the days of limitations. This problem of optimization of the state budget is a very interesting research topic, and I expect it to be and how much I know about the Ministry of Finance in cooperation with the Ministry of Science to support all those decisions that are related to the structure of the state budget so that it can best meet the criteria of development, growth and social sensitivity of responsibility to Croatian citizens and the fact that not much more than 10 years have passed since the end of the Homeland War. Therefore, these formal mathematical methods can certainly be used to better, better, more fully not only deploy but understand the state budget and discuss it. The analysis of the state budget is therefore a subject that deserves much more attention and in any case I believe and hope that in future reports and analytical estimates of the budget from different aspects we will have when we discuss these items. What I think deserves special attention on the state budget concerns investment. Investments represent the state budget item in which the potential for more economic growth can be covered. The optimisation of the investment portfolio of the state budget can certainly be an important and interesting topic in order to assess for each item the new added value of each such investment contributes not only to economic growth but also to the better and better quality life of all Croatian citizens. We have heard about some important features of this budget of the Minister of Science, investment in the university, investment in universities. Investments in strengthening the technology base and so on and these are important characteristics of the budget and for this reason I hold when we talk about the budget not only where it should be added or subtracted but about this methodology that allows the existing budget to be optimised in terms of its performance, in terms of its capabilities, particularly from the aspect of growth and development. We certainly talk about the Croatian budget to state and idealise and consider it to be the only and only means of growth, growth and development is not good because we must remember that Croatia was faced with enormous material damage in the early 1990s. That nearly one-third of Croatia was destroyed. That the large number of energy infrastructures that we are talking about today was destroyed and that this energy infrastructure, development infrastructure, economic infrastructure was the goal of aggression in the first days of war. You don't need to talk about Ernestine. It is worth talking about TLM and many other economic facilities which are unfortunately torn down and which is why Croatia is progressing, but not at the speed that could not have been the case of aggression on the Republic of Croatia. Certainly what I think is the speciality of Minister Shuker is the ultimate management of tax revenues and that is perhaps one item in which all what the Government is doing in the area and Croatia through and fiscalisation can be improved and the collection of taxes in the Republic of Croatia speeded up. The demining of the grey economy using new information and communication technologies is also one instrument that, with existing tax rates, can maximise revenue in the state budget is certainly the item that deserves attention. One such improvised ad hoc assessment if the conservative retail assessment is about 20 billion a year and if, in that segment, the introduction of new information and communication technologies can improve the reliability of the collection by 10%, then this could mean that in the state budget, we can aimly provide several billion kunas more precisely what we are talking about research, development of education. Each transaction made with the help of such information and communication technologies means not registering a transaction only in one of nearly 150 thousand retail places, but also means simultaneously registering a real-time transaction and on tax administration servers. Certainly as far as I'm aware, this is one of the roads on which the Ministry of Finance is working with Croatian science to improve tax policy and increase revenues to the state budget at an existing but perhaps even reduced tax rates. And in the end, I'd say next. Different estimates of this budget, restrictive. That's not true. That's what we've had a chance to hear the Prime Minister, the Minister, the Minister of Science. What is true and what is important is the control of the deficit of the state budget is one of the priorities of the Croatian government, but not only of the Croatian government but also of the overall European financial policy and not of no reason insists on the criteria of the Mastricht to ensure macro-economic stability on this I would say the first necessary but perhaps insufficient way from the aspect of overall economic growth not only of the Republic of Croatia, but also of the European Union as a whole. Certainly in the west is often a sentence. I'll bring her up in the end. Death and taxes cannot be avoided! I would say such a restrictive, serious, responsible, fiscal policy and discipline is one of the characteristics of the Ministry of Finance and because of these characteristics and these abilities, this ministry has made a particularly important and significant contribution to the quality of the Croatian government's overall policy over the past period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1407	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. There was a yellow replica board in the air. She was raised high by representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1408	High or low is less important. Namely, Col. Ćosic has quite interestingly started his discussion by trying to explain his view of the budget among other things and game theory, i.e. large numbers. To me, as interesting as it may be as an attempt, it reminds me of that people's attempt that sometimes there are no trees from the forest and somewhere it reminds us of the very common justification and everyone when they're talking about the budget that there's no money in the state. And it might all have been if we hadn't gotten these nearly 600 pages of very densely printed tables in which they were writing very specific figures. These very specific figures say, for example, in one case that in this same state budget, they predicted an increase of over 350% or a total of 8 million kuna for the construction of the Ministry of Education and Sports building, and on the other hand that we provided only 700 000 kuna for the adaptation of all primary schools in the Republic of Croatia to make them available to children and young people with disabilities. This cannot be interpreted as large or small numbers, but can only be interpreted as the priority of this government is, however, the obvious arrangement of the ministry building from the adaptation of primary schools facilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1409	Thank you. The reply to the replica has a respected representative Krešimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1410	Thank you for your comment. And maybe this story about games has included you in some other character games. But I would point out, however, that game theory is one of the most serious theoretical disciplines dealing with very complex problems of the type of maximumization, minimisation, at the same time finding an optimal solution between different conflict requirements. Therefore, I will certainly not speak and replicate in the context of what you have said. But I would like to stress that these elements of analysis are very good and useful when we talk about such complex and complex things. And I think the state budget and its optimization is definitely if you want not only from a political point of view, but also from a theoretical aspect one of the most complex problems we face I would say at least twice a year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1411	Thank you. Now we're going to hear the debate of the esteemed representative, Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1412	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. It's interesting that three, four months ago we boasted of high economic growth. It is likely to take place in 2006 and will be achieved in relation to three years of its previous mandate. But it only happened in three to four months. Suddenly we no longer have a high rate of growth, in the budget we plan to grow from four to four and a half percent and what are the reasons why this is happening. The explanation was most vividly told by the Prime Minister. He said high inflation of 5% and some percent and imported inflation as if it were not the problem of the Croatian government and Croatian society. As if it wasn't a problem that last year we imported more goods for $13 billion and some dollars than we exported. So, the problem is also drought. And if it's in that inflation, so at that inflation rate in January, the greatest impact has a diet, then I ask why the government didn't react with the stock. Probably because they're not here. Because if the wheat was bought for one kuna, the one from the harvest in those 6 months interest and storage costs are not so high that the price of bread, the price of flour, the price of oil, etc. So the problem is probably somewhere else. It could be expected to be an increase in prices, that inflation would grow, that we could also conclude exactly that in the statements made by the governor of the Croatian National Bank, who had already announced this at the beginning or during the summer. The government had no answer to that. I can only speculate and say that the government probably doesn't even have a concept of economic development, there's no predicting what can happen within such a short period of three to four months. And now let's go to this budget that projects an economic growth of 4.5%, an inflation of 5.2%, a deficit here about 2%, a total of about 2.3%. And a nominal budget growth of 6.5 billion kuna. And then we call such a budget with those epithets that every budget in Croatia has is developmental and social and we still call it a budget for the competitiveness of society. I wonder what kind of competitiveness we expect, for example, in industry when we don't have industrial policy, what competitiveness in our shipbuilding is when we fail not only in this government's mandate but also in all previous mandates to restructure shipbuilding, what is competitiveness in agriculture if we do nothing in the organisation of agriculture and if agriculture has a significant impact on our trade deficit. For example, in last year, agriculture achieved a negative balance of nearly 2 billion kuna. And by the time I started talking about agriculture, I'd look back on that part of the budget, so the agricultural budget. It can be seen on the eye that this is a significant or significant increase in this budget compared to the total budget that is growing somewhere on the spending side somewhere with 5.5%. However, if it is more carefully analysed what is in this budget, then we see that there is actually one strategy for competitiveness in this branch of activity. Why do I have such a finding? Well, I'll say it on one example. For example, support goes back to that system to pay for one hectare and one throat. That would be acceptable to me for some parts of Croatia. So, if we had planned to pass a law on regionalisation of agricultural production, then we would probably be able to go with such an incentive policy in these hill-mounted areas, which have small land resources. Overall, I don't think it's going to give effect and that it won't increase production, especially the structure of production won't change. It is further established in that part of the budget that far larger areas will now be covered. So, so far, incentives have been paid off somewhere for 660,000 hectares, and now it's planned to pay off at 950,000 hectares. If we know that we have a total or use slightly more than a million acres, then it's practically almost 100%. No country does that. That we don't have a plan or a program to do it. Personally, I think it would be far smarter to have more resources both financially and professionally, and each other invest in the fact that our farmers are trained to learn how to use new technologies so that they can round up their own property and that they can also join these small agricultural producers through associations, so through cooperatives, they can then respect and compete on the market and ensure the placement of their products. Speaking of land, let's repeat that our land is about a million and 100,000 used land on nearly 2 million plots. In this budget, we have no answer to how we are going to get around agricultural land because too little funds are planned for that purpose. It is good that the establishment of the Agency for the Management of State Agricultural Land is planned but the law needs to be welcomed, it should be welcomed that it is formed, that it begins to function. It may take more than half a year, maybe a year if we don't get the law in time. Our nearly 400 thousand households have less than 5 acres of land. So, in this way, even with incentives to stimulate small production, I don't think it's good. I constantly advocate to separate the social part of the country from the real slave producer. Let us transfer these funds to the social budget and thus release funds for those who want to advance, who want to make progress in their household and who want more production. And for rural development, a lot of money is really foreseen. However, with all due attention reading that part of the budget, I could not fully understand what it would be spent on. Personally, I think that the biggest part or most of the problem in the country and the rest of the people in the country are bound to be good infrastructure. Without good infrastructure, neither the population will remain but neither industry will develop, nor production will develop. You can't have livestock production if you don't have water, if you don't have gas, if you don't have good roads, etc. In order to keep the population in the country, they also need certain projects or social standard facilities, from schools, from social homes, from infirmarys, from pharmacyes, etc. So that would mean something to me to rural development in Croatia when our village is in such a situation. And something at the end of these little more than a minute to say that this budget has followed all the budgets so far since 2004 regarding high centralised. So we don't have any further decentralisation. And that's why there's a huge dissatisfaction at the level of regional and local self-government units because they're actually not able to go into some major projects. They are instructed to finance larger projects through a public private partnership, but this is the most expensive form of project financing. That's why I tried to list through the amendments what problems are in Međimurje County from schools, in culture, in road construction in culture, in road construction, in draining, etc.. I have no illusions that they will be accepted, because if these projects were accepted, they would be in the budget itself. However, by writing such amendments, we actually want to point to an unsustainable state which is in units of local self-government and regional self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1413	Thank you very much to Mrs. Representatives. Now, he will use his business right to replicate President Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1414	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, you rightly warn your colleagues about this fact and you wonder how and where Vladin's optimism went, which in the summer has reported a 6.1% forecast of economic growth. Now we see in this budget that economic growth is projected somewhere around 4.5%. And the question is whether or not that's going to happen. Imports of food, you say it has grown drastically, and that's true. Food imports are $1.74 billion higher than exports. So, where the measures are, the government obviously does not find measures, how to curb inflation above all, and how to answer these questions. The government should, to me, I think that we can all agree to stop serving in some Mandarin language the right thing to call it a real name. Because in such structures that serve one mass consumption, those famous Potenkin towers, no one will benefit from it, and we will all pay a very high price for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1415	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica will be given by representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1416	And I understand where the optimism went. Optimism was in the election campaign, we had already reached it after then, according to the Prime Minister's statements and 7% of the growth of the social gross product. Now the minister tells us yesterday at the Committee on Finance. It's there in the last year of the mandate. We're going to realize it. We didn't say it was going to be a continuous growth rate in four years. And as for food imports, it's really one absurd thing, that a country that has the potential to produce food for four times as many people, is a food addict, it really shouldn't talk about it. Because it's something that's unimaginable in the 21st century.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1417	Thank you very much. We have another replica. This time from Mr. Representative Nevi Šetić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1418	Here, Mr. Vice President, I'd like to replicate my colleague. In fact, she mentioned a number of times about agriculture that nothing is about ruralisation of agriculture. I agree with some of what she said about agriculture, it is one important potential for Croatia, but I will say that in Croatia and in the past term, the government has done a great deal. Where? First of all, we know that we have the Institute of Agriculture and Tourism in Poreč, that we have such an institute in Split. We can say that at the level of olive oil and wine in Croatia, such steps have been made, that we have world products. Just get the analysis and the statistics we have available everywhere. And that's a chance for Croatia. I, my colleague, want to replicate in a way that the chance exists in Croatia, but it depends on us, whether we use it. We know about some other institutes in the continent that also provide infrastructure. And there's one more thing I want to say is what the government has done, support in rural development, you have in Istria today over 200 objects that can be held in high-class rural properties. That means it's done, and it's done in the last three, four, five years. Therefore, I would like to say for the sake of the Croatian public in this replica that the chances exist but they depend on us. And in this budget, as I have seen, the government, or the ministries, are transporting this further development of agriculture in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1419	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica and the esteemed representative, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1420	I don't deny that some shifts are gone but they're insufficient, they're not enough. Here's a colleague, and you're talking about Istria, but you look at Slavonia, in six years she disappears, I mean 16 villages, 6 villages. They're abandoned to the back of the house. You say we have a world brand of wine, and do you know that we can't realize that export quota because we don't have enough wine, we don't have enough quality wine. And you say, there were programs yes, there was an excellent program in livestock. And people built farms, say, milk cows, have a basic herd of 100 pieces, it's somewhere totaling about 120 to 130 throats on that farm. Then a land lease is opened, and then they don't get a single hectare of land to rent. So what do they do? To slaughter the entire basic herd for which they took up credit, which she co-financed, which was co-financed from the budget. Is that politics? It's not a thought-out policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1421	Dear representative Milanka Opačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1422	My colleagues and colleagues have already argued in several of their discussions that for who knows which times, and here we are now also tripping to the promises made in the pre-election campaign, because the fact that citizens were promised to grow the economy by 7% is now said to be clearly no more than 4.5%. It only speaks of the irresponsibility of this government towards the citizens it promises, in a pre-election campaign, and then the other one works when it wins power. There was also a promise to abolish the administrative fee, and there is no such proposal, and with full right we can be suspicious, whether such a legislative proposal will come into the process, or whether it will remain something that remains at the level of pre-election promises. This budget is actually a message to citizens that this year they will not get any better, that they will not live any better, that they can still expect only a drop in standards and an increasing uncertainty for their present and the future. Nothing is better than the economy, and the economy and the citizens are left to themselves. The fact is that prices are rising, inflation in January was 6% and that such inflation is realistically reducing any increase in wages and pensions, reducing real and social benefits for those most at risk. So, in my opinion and also in the opinion of the club of representatives, who said our club president, inflation, low economic growth, the country's growing debt, the decline of citizens' standards, are actually the bad economic policies that this government has led over the past four years. In the 12th month of last year, wages fell by 1.1%, and every serious one in this country that should have been a kind of alarm bell. We have therefore, after the official data we have seen, which have been made public and some, and some of the solutions that are addressed to this House. Because the fact that whatever you're telling me here, whatever numbers you're talking about on one side or on the other, is the fact that citizens may not know much. They may not know a part of the citizens or what "crobegs" means, or what "GDP" means, or a lot of things that have been said here today in this hall. But what they certainly know is that they feel insecure about how they will survive today and how they will live tomorrow. For this reason, we felt that there should be some moves to make and to propose some measures that would go towards alleviating the fall of standards and helping to raise salaries for workers. Since the economy is what it is that we cannot secure from that part the salary increase, we have suggested that we go to a reduction in some contributions. In this way, no additional economy or entrepreneurs would be burdened, but surely the state would have to find some new sources of funding. In this way, wages would be increased, so space would be freed to increase workers' salaries. So the state has to find some of its sources of funding and the fact is that it's just a matter of political decision whether or not it will. The fact is, there is one not so few people in this country who make very good money and live very well. They live on profit gains, so in their stakes in companies, stocks, they earn on stock exchanges, so what they say to speculative actions. They earn just as much as they do at the sale of their shares. I'll just mention here that over the past year, one owner has sold his factory or rather the factory these citizens have been creating for 40 and a few years, and he's won in privatisation for extremely small money. He sold it for two, for two billion kunas if he didn't pay a dime to the state. You will not find this for sure in any European Union country, you can find it only in Croatia. In the past year, according to what could be read in the newspaper, a senior government official received a profit of 70 and some thousand kuna. She didn't bother to do it unlike the workers who work their 8, 10 or 12 hours neatly in some companies, pay their taxes. Retired people pay their pension tax but the high official in question did not pay even a cut of the tax on which she earned. So that's a circle of people we're asking to tax because it's not fair and it's not correct and it's not socially sensitive that only the burden of this economic situation in the country but also the bad policies of the government are borne by workers, pensioners and people who are hard to live. So far, the government's policy has also been reflected in the situation of pensioners. Nearly half of the pensioners, somewhere around 600,000 receive a pension below two thousand kuna, which means they have a daily life of no less than 66 kuna. Let everyone here in this hall and the people sitting in the government try to live every day with 66 kuna so they'll see that it's actually something that doesn't provide you or that you're full of it, let alone anything else. The fact is that in the past 4 years, pensions have fallen to 38% and that if inflation spirals continue like this, any increase that is scheduled will not be able to ensure a better life for the pensioners. So their standard will continue to fall. The second most endangered category today is single - parent families. All research shows that these are families that in the most part have serious survival problems, even as easily as they can slip, or one part has already slipped into the poverty zone, and the fact is that neither in this budget nor in any strategy has a single measure aimed at that category of our fellow citizens. In total, therefore, there are about 20% of families with children of single parents. So the number isn't negligible. The third vulnerable group is certainly unemployed and those living on welfare. Much of the people who are social assistance users are able to work, unfortunately they can't get a job and the country's primary task is to provide them with a job that they can therefore take care of their own existence, but for those who, due to a number of circumstances, are not able to work or make a living, therefore, are obliged to take care of themselves. Since this budget does not change the budget base, therefore it remains the same budget base is the basis for all social benefits, disability, child benefits, sickness benefits. This means that these increases also have nothing because these increases have remained only at the level of pre-election increases and for that category of people there is also no better life this year. And in the end, I would like to say that the problem of this budget is, and it shows that it is kind of a matter to say both the social insensitivity of this government and one, a little bit, a little bit of one, a policy that shows a kind of arrogance, and that is to isolate and increase the funds on the items for the government administration. So in this year, these funds have increased as much as 30%. All that money goes on not to raise the salaries of civil servants but to an increased number of people employed by the state administration, especially now that HDZ with coalition partners was supposed to provide a good part of its party army but also people who are related to coalition parties. So it's increased employment in the state administration of crowding at the state administration and 30% more income funds show only one irrational spending of money because we have a large state administration already very inefficient as the negotiations with the European Union show, where simply things are not working out. And in the end, I can only conclude that this budget is something that will keep the coalition in the Parliament but goes to the harm of the citizens and the future of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1423	Thank you. A few corrections of incorrect allegations. First respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1424	Thank you, Mr. President. So the colleagues in their recognizable style of "black chronicle" besides the rest, he says, poorly, that economic policy has been in the last four years. So I don't know how to explain and for which times but that the government has helped develop a large number of economic zones that are very much being filled, that it has also helped in gasification by gasification of economies that there are various ways of building roads. So the government creates an environment, but the government can't build factories as state factories as you suggested. There's a problem. There's a problem with the workers. Unfortunately, there are no workers around me.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1425	Susana Bilic Wardic. The esteemed representative is the next correction to the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1426	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I would like to correct the incorrect allegation of the distinguished colleague of Parliament's MP Opačić, who said: "This budget is a message to the public and to the citizens that nothing will be better for them this year," and that same assumption was in her final statement and I want to correct it because it is not true. This budget is developmental and social. All categories, threatened categories for which the honourable representative has said that their rights have not been respected, i.e. that they have been brought to a worse position in this budget, in this draft budget, all these items have been increased and we cannot from this House of Commons, although I respect and give the right to object to the public to send messages that correspond to them cannot agree with such ominous messages as the right side of this assembly has been sending to the public throughout the day. Well, they're on my right. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1427	Dear Representative Kreso Filipovic. Which would be right to the left, which would be left to the right would be.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1428	... which has said that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has led a bad economic policy over the past period because it is simply not true. [[The speaker was subsequently activated.]] I will try to remind Mrs Opačić that the growth of the economy in certain neighborhoods reached 7% in 2007, that inflation was held back in all four years at three and below three percent, that unemployment was reduced by 80,000 compared to the number of unemployed in 2003, that the number of employees increased by 130,000 years compared to the number in 2003. It also reduced the government budget deficit from 6.2% from 2003 to 2.6% in 2007. I think this data clearly speaks about whether the Government of the Republic of Croatia has run a bad or good economic policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1429	The Honorable representative Carmela Caparin is the next correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1430	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. There are a number of incorrect allegations that my colleagues have already corrected, and what I would like to look at is that the colleague seems to have been reading wrong, so the social care data on them says that they are smaller, that they will not be enough, that they are not anywhere, so I will just remind her that in order to exercise the rights of the social care system are increased funds of 3.2 million kuna more than before. They also refer to alimony, foster care, etc. I don't want to pick it up. From the budget daily for the care of fostered children or adults are planned funds of 26.5 million kuna. For the care of children without adequate parental care, 93 million kuna is allocated. The construction of new centres for social care is also important, 790 million kuna. So 34% more for capital investments, somewhere more for 200 million kuna. And so a series of data. But what he wants to do to raise the quality and availability of social care is that you really didn't read it, because the budget for 2007 was 61 million kuna and for 2008. 137 million. So index 221.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1431	Dear Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1432	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague said in her last sentence that this budget is not for the benefit of Croatian citizens, but for the harm of Croatian citizens. That's just not true. An increase of 6.6 budgets compared to last year and an increase in all items. So it is not to our advantage, but to the benefit of Croatian citizens. No one's rights are diminished, not one of the users of the state budget. The realisation of this budget will realise the construction of schools, hospitals, homes, infrastructure projects, everything that goes in favour of Croatian citizens, exclusively in favour of your authority that reduced rights and births and pensioners and patients and defenders and all other users of the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1433	Honorable representative Igor Dragovan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1434	Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Today we are discussing a document that determines the quality of life of Croatian citizens in the current year, a document in which we should see all the luxury of pre-election promises, a document based on which, if not all but then at least the majority of Croatian citizens should feel satisfied, happy, safe and respected. But unfortunately, it's not like that. Because in his introduction, the prime minister admitted incompetence, I don't know whether his or his ministers, and also for his senseless and defensive budget, accused the internal and external enemies. Internal citizens and citizens of Croatia because they participated in parliamentary elections held at a time when they were also planned by the same government and that can't be an excuse unless you knew yourself that you wouldn't include everything you promised in the budget if you got trust. Externally, because the wonders of the past year have convinced us that the government is good, that the figures are excellent, that we are the best, that only the sky is the limit for economic growth. And suddenly after the election, a difficult environment, inflation in Europe and the world. Therefore, this budget is the result of the last four-year term of HDZ and the new Government of Ivo Sanader has neither vision nor knowledge to ensure a higher standard of citizens, higher wages and higher pensions. The government was and is now without ambition and without economic policy so is the budget which is actually proof that there are no people with ideas, knowledge, labour and vision. That is why this budget leaves Slavonian counties at the beginning of Croatian development again, if any development and growth can be discussed at all. This so vital economic growth for the future of Croatia and its citizens will be if we are lucky, because it is the only thing left for us since knowledge and skills do not amount to 4 and a half percent in 2008. Our ears are still ringing the pre-election story seven eight, seven eight percent of economic growth. In addition to last year's inflation of 5.8% and 6.2% in January of last year, inflation is the result of the government's economic policy, the Croatian government and not of others in the nearby and further environment. Croatia also has an accident that it has the same government and that now all these worrying figures are easily comparable to the figures in the previous term, and the election figures are bad words because the difference is even bigger. With this budget, Brod-Posaviska, Vukovar-Srijemska, Požega-Slavonska, Virovitica-Podravska and Osijek-Baranja County will again be the poorest county. With this budget, the difference in gross social product between developed Croatia and Slavonia and Baranja will almost certainly not remain at 3.5 times at the expense of Slavonia but will grow unconstitutional. Today we heard here from some MPs that he was pleased with Brod-Posavia County. I don't know where the satisfaction is based if the gross social product is the lowest in Brod-Posavina County and is 46.2% below the national average. In the election campaign, the rulings were full of the mouth of regional development, investment, opening up space to investment. Unfortunately, nothing special in the budget from Slavonia's perspective is seen, and it doesn't even matter if I see it or not. It's important if people in Slavonia and Baranja see it, and I'm afraid not, because this budget gives them the right. They will remain dependent on the state, on charity in terms of social contributions, on state impotence to address 28.4% unemployment in Vukovar-Srijem County, 26.9% in Virovitica-Podravska, 26.3% in Brod-Posaviska, 22.8 in Osijek-Baranja and 20% in Požega-Slavonia County. And what does the state offer them? It offers them employment-like employment in the state service and state-owned enterprises, offers them dependence on state-owned givings, offers them insufficient survival, let alone for a decent and proud life. The most difficult ones alive are the oldest. There's nothing in retirement for over 65 years old. We in the SDP have proposed the Social Pensions Act several times in the past term, you said we would, there's nothing. In Slavonia and Baranja nothing has changed in the past four years, and in this it is equal to the rest of Croatia, only for people in Slavonia the consequences will be more devastating. Although the budget is increasing nominally, wages and pensions are falling, unemployment is growing and the economy is stagnating. What does that mean for Croatian citizens? This means that in this year our citizens will be able to buy less, which means that in this year our pensioners won't be able to buy anything at all, which means that we have years of uncertainty and hard struggles to survive a large number of our citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1435	Thank you. A few corrections of incorrect allegations. First, respected representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1436	Thank you very much. In his reading report, the esteemed colleague mentioned, and what is not true, I quote: "Prime Minister Sanader accused internal and external enemies". For the last time in this room, an internal and external enemy was mentioned before the election of the '90s. This is completely incorrect. The second is incorrect, he says, suddenly after the election, a difficult situation has arisen. Yeah, because the barrel of oil jumped over 100 euros, but it should be read. Third, inflation in Croatia is the consequence of government policy and therefore the government is bad. Then it is a bad government and America and all the countries of the European Union because inflation has grown everywhere, it is the law of foreign affairs of colleagues. And finally, I quote, he incorrectly said, Croatia has an accident to have the same government. Ask the voters.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1437	Dear Representative Frano Matušić, the next amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1438	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So it is already said that the prime minister mentioned internal and external enemies. That's not true. Obviously, internal and external enemies still appear to you by the head and members of your party, but that is your problem. And as far as pension cuts and salaries are concerned, that's not true. In this budget you can see projections, all that is provided for in this budget, it is an increase in both pensions and salaries. See each item of the budget relating to employees' salaries, you will see that it is an increase, and not a reduction.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1439	Dear representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1440	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, the MP is gonna try to quote a whole series of inaccuracies, but here's a few. This government has no vision of how to secure higher wages and pensions. Col. Dragovan has a vision of this government to secure higher pensions and salaries, a colleague has already mentioned something. Well, she singled out this government and now she has considerable pension funds, and in 2008 if you read the budget, she will allocate 3.1 billion more than 2007 and not the previous year. She has improved the standard of our pensioners through a whole series of sublegal and legal acts, and to remind you she's just trying to reduce this big difference between so-called. old and new pensioners.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1441	Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovanovic is the next correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1442	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's my colleague Dragovan misstated the whole series of things, carried out, so there are incorrect allegations, besides the idealess budget, the accusations, the external and internal enemies, and now you should say. So, a colleague reacts, if we mention external and internal problems, not enemies. And the party from which you came, on which you sang the election night went, was the external and internal enemy neatly liquidated wherever you were.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1443	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Igor Dragovan.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1444	The Rules of Procedure, Article 209(2), which states that an adjustment is to be made. Dear counterpart Markovanovic did not state it, he may have his own opinion and no one is denying his opinion, let him take the line, let him speak his opinion nicely, and then we will talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1445	This quote is a proposal in the HDZ Club's initiative to make an amendment to the Rules of Procedure to amend the amendment that an agent who corrects an incorrect quote should immediately quote that part of the claim to be corrected. So it's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure. And distinguished representative Goran Maras, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1446	Gordan Maras. I would like to say by Article 209 of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Markovanovic did not correct the incorrect quote of colleagues Dragovan, and since they know very well from HDZ colleagues as it was in the party, I am convinced that they know it much better than me and my colleagues Dragovan.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1447	Now whoever corrected who, but the injury of the Rules of Procedure obviously did not. What times they've been for a while, it's... And the esteemed representative Zeljko Turk, the correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1448	I am also correcting, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Dragovan's incorrect assumption that this Croatia has an accident that has such a government. This government has been chosen by the Croatian people in particular, and the Croatian people know what they choose, so it is absolutely guilty. Croatia has the government it deserves, it is fortunate to have a HDZ-led government.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1449	Dear Representative Kreso Filipovic, finally.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1450	So I'm going to correct just one incorrect quote even though a respected colleague said the same thing as a recently respected colleague Opacic about a catastrophic economic policy. A colleague said unemployment in Croatia is growing. I don't know if a colleague before that listened to what I said in correcting Mrs Opačić's incorrect claim that unemployment has been reduced and that we currently have the lowest unemployment rate in Croatia in the history of the Croatian state. I know it's hard to change a written speech when it comes to speaking, but I think you should respect certain facts that are undeniable.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1451	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Igor Dragovan.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1452	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the MP has broken the Rules of Procedure again in the same article saying that I said something I did not say and did not correct my claim. The numbers hurt, but they are true because it was given by the Croatian Employment Service as such in these five counties.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1453	The representative did not correct your allegations concerning Slavonski County. He was correcting something else to be referred to, not something about an internal and external enemy. I recommend one of my essays from the new '87 magazine. the years to discover the inner enemy. Replica, the esteemed representative of Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1454	Thank you, Vice President, fellow MPs. So I find it interesting to listen to colleagues from the Social Democratic Party who are currently performing a deficit on the budget with a view to the most sensitive area, clearly it's a question of social security, compared to when they were in power and constantly caring about those social categories, so I'm not repeating it because I've already talked about it. But I have to say that I believe that if my colleagues read the budget that they could then notice that this is about the number of unemployed, I think I already mentioned it today fell from that magic figure while they were also in power from 300 thousand to 250 thousand, that the means to encourage employment in 2008 increased from last year by 8%, and that since 2004, they have increased as much as six times since 2004. Then, I believe they found that the funds planned for the more difficult employment categories of workers in the labour market for, of course, those are for people with disabilities, that this programme is being implemented by this government and that this programme is being achieved. I believe that you have also noticed as pensioners that for pensioners, a 10% increase in funding is planned, which would mean that this year will be a regular pension payment, and whoever remembers a little further, we remember that there was a time when pensioners did not know when their pension would be paid. Then, I must also say that since 1 October 2007, a pension allowance has been paid for those pensioners who have earned the right to retire after '99. A year which is also an injustice is corrected by a coalition. Not coalitions, which our colleagues didn't realize while they were in power. I must also say that as of 1 January this year, a better way to determine early retirement and the lowest pension will be applied.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1455	Mr. Kunst, please conclude.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1456	Which will result in an increase in the average pension. And so I'm not counting because I could still count the more favourable, but also the birth benefits are planned at an increased amount. So you're not standing a story about a budget that a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1457	Thank you. Replication response, distinguished representative Igor Dragovan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1458	The fact that you've listed a respected colleague, we are in time to finish this story about this coalition government. Our engagement, effort, work and work that we have done for four years in that term, and therefore, after a certain term of office of the HDZ Government, a lot is being done and in the new term it has been returning to some things since 2000. I'm glad you mentioned as a former union leader that there were no pensions paid back in the '90s and they didn't. They were stolen. That's why all these pensions are now coming back because they were stolen in the '90s, the '90s weren't aligned, the Constitutional Court's decision was not respected, it was not respected, it was ignored. There wasn't even any payouts. As far as unemployment is concerned, I am interested in high unemployment and I am sorry about that in Slavonia and Baranja and I spoke only and only exclusively of unemployment in these five Slavonian counties. And you can look at things however you want, but people in Slavonia and Baranja know very well how many perspectives they have, how much space they have to get a new job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1459	Dear Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1460	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I would like to begin by welcoming the fact that this state budget has respected everything that has been done so far on the basic infrastructure projects in the county from which I come from, so Dubrovnik-Neretva County and that all the basic projects that concern the development of my county continue, which is primarily the highway that goes towards the Pločas and continues towards Dubrovnik, then there is the bridge, there are numerous projects related to reconstruction, port, port of Ploče, port of Dubrovnik, construction and road and total other infrastructure, which will indeed mean even stronger development of Dubrovnik and Dubrovnik-Neretva County. So let me look back at the area I particularly follow, which is the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, and I am speaking in fact what is important in this state budget compared to the previous years, but also to compare what happened in the previous four years, since the end of 2003, since when the government led by Dr. Sanader took responsibility for development and this area of course, with all other areas of activity in the Republic of Croatia. So I want to immediately compare the growth of the budget in the field of science, education and sport in this ministry. And I must immediately say that the total growth from the end of 2003 to this budget proposal is 50.48% or in particular 3 billion 929 million and 997 thousand kuna. I think this fact speaks enough of how truly this Croatian government and this Croatian Parliament, whose majority are also representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community with their coalition partners, how much they are truly committed to the knowledge society, for Croatia as a knowledge society, because this huge investment and this huge increase, in fact the unprecedented growth of funds in relation to everything else, when you look at enough talking about yourself, how much we are truly and truly committed to Croatia as a knowledge society. As regards the 2008 budget, I will compare it only with the previous year in this area, so science, education and sport. We have to say that he was increased when looking at the draft budget, the original 2007 budget by 12.12% or by a billion and 270 million kuna. And compared to the rebalanced budget, the increase is 8.66% and 933 million kuna respectively. What is important, what is significant, is the fact that they have grown and will grow salaries of employees in the system of education and science. And in particular, to specify according to the contract signed and with trade unions, the base grows from year to year, from 1.8.2007. by 6% plus the additions that change from year to year but amount to at least 2% per year, in the first year, so 2007 to 2012 when the projection ends in that part of the contract where the addition is 2.3%. Or specifically. The total cumulative increase during this period from 1.8.2007 to 1.7.20102. So this projected period is 61% of the salary increase for employees in the education and science system. Or, specifically, 4 billion and 110 million kuna. What does this mean specifically for a professor, an average teacher in elementary and high school, so a professor with high professional training and 15 years of training? This means specifically, in 2006, net wages amounted to 4 thousand 561 kuna. In 2008, therefore, this year will amount to 5 thousand 337 kuna, which is an increase of 17% compared to 2006. Or finally, when we look at the end of this contract, it will be 7 thousand 358 kuna and 61.32% higher, respectively. Also, the net salary of a ten-year professor at the High School in 2006 was 6 thousand 500, 2007. 7 thousand and 028 kuna, and in 2008 it will be 7 thousand and 606 kuna, respectively, an increase of 17%. I will give the basic features of the 2008 budget, or what is foreseen by this budget, and I am sure that we will adopt. So, apart from this wage growth, and apart from the very growth of the budget that can be seen clearly and from the budget, I will say that this budget provides for the continuation of the mandatory education duration project, which is one of the most demanding and significant projects for the Republic of Croatia. As part of the National Programme for the Introduction of Mandatory Secondary Education, funds for the financing of the inter-urban transport of secondary school students amounting to 105 million kuna and accommodation in student homes amounting to cca have been provided. 19 million kuna. As far as schooling is concerned, the Minister of Science, Education and Sports has already said that in the period 2004 to 2007, from the funding of the state budget and the C5 programme, that it was either built or completed 288 schools in the Republic of Croatia. So it's really an impressive number. And an additional 124 million kuna has been provided for the 2008 school construction project. And in the next four years, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the World Bank will allocate about 500 million kunas for school construction and an additional 400 million kuna for school equipment, achieving the objective of the development plan for education and education from 2005 to 2010 which was also the case here when we touched education. Or along the way... 2 The next four years have been secured 300m euros, and it is certain that the part that will relate to education will amount to around 450m kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also with regard to equipment, school equipment is provided with funds for the equipment of cabinet-dedactical and information equipment of primary and secondary schools of over 100 million kuna. For higher education, we can say that the increase in the budget is the largest in the past period. As for the period from the end of 2003 to 2008, this increase is as high as 65%, and compared to 2007, this increase is 216 million kuna and 8.88% respectively. In addition to the above, loans amounting to more than 3 billion kuna have been secured for the construction of university campuses, of which only 1.4 billion kuna have been secured in recent months. As regards the support for master’s and PhDs in the system of higher education and science for the first time, the support for master’s and PhDs was introduced as well as scholarships for doctoral studies worth 3.5 million kuna. The dorms were already talking about, so I wouldn't particularly talk about building dorms. But to improve the student standard, 81 million kuna is secured, which is more than or 8.3 million kuna in comparison to 2007. For subsidising housing loans for teachers and teachers, which is also one newspaper of this government, 2 million kuna was provided for next year, therefore, for subsidising housing loans for teachers and teachers, for about 500 employees who indeed came across a very positive echo between teachers and teachers. Of the other things, I would also single out international cooperation that is really very important to us. The allocations for international cooperation in the field of science and education have increased by 19.26% or around 11 million kuna, with the largest work successfully reported to international organisations for which we have been granted funds, which means that we have approached the right one. To inform the system of science and education itself, there will be an increase in funds of 15.2 million kuna or 14.45% of which goes to education of primary and secondary school staff and the purchase of equipment and computer programs. Something that is also extremely important for all those who are in the education system is, of course, the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education, which has primarily provided funds for the construction of the centre itself, the 8 million kuna building itself. Equally, the centre has been increased by 87% extra, so 27 million kuna for conducting the experimental state of graduation is certainly one of the most important projects of this government in the field of education, and which will be accessible by all students of the final fourth grade high school and four-year vocational schools as well as art schools next year. Here, I think that's enough. That's enough... projects concerning the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, which says how committed we really are to Croatia as a knowledge society. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1461	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1462	Dear counterpart Matušić said in his presentation that we have an unprecedented growth in this budget, which is an accurate quote, a budget for education. I don't know what they'd say about the growth of other resistors' budgets. The government is growing by 30%, Management Office for 9.82, Office for E Croatia 29.5, Office for Development Strategy 81%, Office for State Property Management 35.99%, Security Intelligence Agency for 10%, MORH 19.51%, Ministry of Economy by 9.66%, Ministry of Agriculture by 12.05%. And these are colleagues Matušić from this budget all the resistors who grow more than this educational one, which is 8.66. If this is from education unseen then this is all the rest I don't know what would be in your terminology, but obviously it's not a priority.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1463	I'm an adjective. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1464	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, I am correcting the incorrect quote of my colleague Matusic, who said the wage agreement is a secure salary growth of 6% in 2008 because in order to ensure wage growth then we need to talk about nominal or real growth. It is an agreement that Minister Schuker mentioned earlier was signed with trade unions when inflation in Croatia was 2.6%. For this year, inflation planned for the budget is 5.2%. So, the only thing that is true is that since the 6% salary increase, this agreement can potentially guarantee an increase in wages of 0.8% and nothing more, except in those state administration units where the budget predicts a higher wage increase of 5.2%. In the first place is the Government of the Republic of Croatia with 30% increase in salary expenditure and there will indeed be either real wage growth or an enormous increase in the number of employees.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1465	Replications. First respected representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1466	You, colleague Matusic, say that the salaries of high school professors in this year will amount to 5 thousand 317 kuna and therefore boast and point out that you are a great success of this government with that salary of 5 thousand 317 kuna which is truly to be used by your words unseen. You're thinking of achieving a knowledge society. So listen, with that salary of 5 grand, 317 kuna, you can only impress your colleague Kunsto, a well-known unionist and perhaps also the president of the union of high school teachers, Mr. Laktasic, whose union salary is more than 22,000 kuna and probably Kunst's union was no less. And with 5 grand 317 kuna for high school teachers, you're not going to realize a society of knowledge. You will achieve an unprecedented backward.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1467	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1468	Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1469	Wait a minute. Franco, wait a minute. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1470	Vice President, I think Agent Stazic hurt his rules of procedure because I don't know who he's replicating with, whether he's replicating with me or not. ... Article 209. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Who he's replicating with and what my salary and I have to do with this problem. Maybe if a fellow Stazic is interested I can tell him that but this is very rude of him even though it's nothing unusual to him.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1471	This is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but it is not common to mention in the replica the name of a third representative who is not in the game, so it is a bit unusual. But we will now probably as the Committee on the Constitution follows the application of the Rules of Procedure and now there are various initiatives in the phase to change the Rules of Procedure for this topic. Today’s debate will indeed serve as a polygon and as an example of school reasons for amending the Rules of Procedure. ... Without Mate Arlovic, it will be difficult and Mate Arlovic will be, at least his spirit will be there. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Reply to the replica, respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1472	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, fellow Stazic, you first said falsely five hundred seventeen, five three hundred thirty-seven, so it will be the professor's salary at fifteen years of internships, which is the increase compared to 2006. 17%. In your day, contracts were signed that didn't even respect each other. And you see, we'd certainly like your salary to be higher on average. I personally came from education and I'm not ashamed to say that I worked in that system and that I work in that system, etc. In your day, that salary was below $4,000 when I'm already talking like that. But it's more embarrassing what happened when you sign the contract. You signed a collective contract for those same employees in the high school system and didn't pay them off. We're gonna honor contracts and that's why this increase isn't... as compared to 2006. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And you didn't pay them back, and that's how you put the state in a position where today we have to pay back those debts. Over a billion and 200 million kunas only for those who are employed in schools. So, for them alone, we're still paying off our debts through the state budget, just for them without counting those, also those cops you threw out illegally, so last year there were 600 million kunas. And now imagine that we could have given those funds to high school professors and primary school pay raisers. So who'd be happier than us? 17% is really a significant growth, and in this sense there is indeed a commitment to improve the status and we will respect it until the end, and we will ultimately honor the treaty that we signed with the unions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1473	Next replica, the respected representative Marija Lugaric. ... Please, no choir singing or replicating. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1474	I have a replica of the same part of my colleague Matusic's quote as his colleague Stazic. And obviously, we can't agree on basic data and facts here. I have a bit of a surprise to admit that my colleague Matušić didn't mention the "Vicor Lenac" because as soon as he starts listing the debts "Vicor Lenac" and so on, he clearly shows nervousness and that we are right. But I suggest that we have your discussion on this subject beautifully photocopy and send it to every school because then I think that every teacher in high school, a teacher in elementary school who gets his salary, on average, is 40 to 70 kuna more per month, may still be able to live in the belief that he is really as well as you are talking when he is not already on those pay lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1475	Reply to the replica, respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1476	Thank you, colleagues, for giving me the opportunity to replicate. As for "Lenca" I believe that the relevant crime-related institutions will know the right answer for "Lenac" therefore because there was indeed a crime that happened to the SDP, their links to the lateral, lateral and so on because hundreds of millions of not only of kuna were drawn from the state budget, and it went to who knows where and whose pockets are and whose pockets but I hope that the institutions dealing with the trail of money will find where these funds went and what was going on in "Viktor Lenca". And as for the increase in the salary of a colleague, it is not an increase of 40 or 70 kuna, which is specifically compared to 2006 with an increase of 4 000 and 561 kuna to 2008. Five thousand, 337 kuna. So that's not 40 kuna. That's not 40 kuna. Subtract 4000 561 from 5 thousand 337 and you will get a significantly, significantly higher amount of coworker.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1477	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1478	... 209. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Rules of Procedure. My colleague accuses the verdict, reads the indictment, and we have heard several times from these speakers that the State's Attorney's Office has completed the investigation into "Lance". We've heard it a few times here. So I think spreading lies from the constituency clubs is a violation of the Rules of Procedure and is a misbehavior. Lies can't beat a real state.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1479	It's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure. It is a controversy between representative Frana Matušić and representative, representative of Marija Lugaric. No harm done to the Rules of Procedure. This is a school example of the breach of the Rules of Procedure on the other hand. You've been commenting... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You know it's the same then illegal. [[Agreement: No problem...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1480	But here we're talking about thieves, thefts. Yeah, but then he goes to the State's Attorney's office, not the MPs. [[Intruder: Of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1481	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1482	Thank you, Mr. President. I didn't tell a lie. I raised my doubts about it and I said that the competent institutions of my colleague Linic would hurt the article and 214 because you said that beyond the rules of this House that I was telling a lie, that's not true. I said that the competent institutions would determine where that money went. Of course I doubt it was a robbery. It's my right to doubt it was a robbery. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1483	Gentlemen, this isn't about, and one and the other MP, it's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure. It's a controversy, an unauthorized controversy in the Rules of Procedure that you've now launched. You can't do that, and you know you can't do that. ... The Slavic question, it's always a matter of firm measure whether she would, the firm measures, have any educational influence. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's whether it would act in a preventive way. I, you know I won't use repression. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. Next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1484	Well, first of all, I'd like to call first of all, so you can't have an answer to the line, I haven't started talking yet. How are you gonna answer me if I keep my mouth shut? [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1485	Replication response. You don't have to, the representative withdraws his proposal for a replica as well as he can. Honorable representative of the Iron Flego, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1486	Mr. Chairman and Mr. Representative, I hope you haven't heard any of you say nothing's been done. We're all here saying it's done, but it hasn't been done enough and we don't think it's done enough. I said two hours ago that we had kept the pace that we had promised ourselves and that we had committed to implementing reforms so that we would have a budget of 15 billion today, not 12 billion. I'll read you a sentence. It is on page 66 of the government's programme: "Croatian society only has a future if education becomes a national priority." If national priorities are read out of an increase in the budget, then you have 15 national priorities prior to education, and those are not sufficient or sufficient for a close extended reproduction. During the campaign, we had a mouthful of talk about the new Harvard, the Borg Harvard. It's like Harvard is made up of buildings. In the assignment or approval of the borrowing fund for a new investment cycle of 780 million. Zagreb University has more than 50% of students and 50% of teachers and 80% of scientific production has received 370 million. And that's what puts into question the credibility of what we read today in the budget regarding education, education, science and technology.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1487	Reply to the replica, respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1488	So I can, in part, agree with you that we can never be satisfied with the total amount of education, science and this area that I specifically spoke about. So, but I can't agree that you can't see from an increase in the budget that you can't see that it's really the government's priority. I think this is really a total increase compared to last year, on that original draft plan was 12.12% and now compared to the rebalanced 8.66 and quite certain that in the rebalancing this ministry I believe will also receive increased funds. So it's going to be bigger again, that it really means that the state is conscious and responsible and that knowledge is indeed the priority of this society. I mean, look at the specifics. I was talking about specific items. I'm not going to look specifically at the Zagreb university right now. But look, buildings are what it means to progress. We cannot implement the basic part of the program without building new school buildings throughout Croatia, which is education in one shift. So, and that's one of the preconditions of normal development and better development, I would also say, creating better preconditions for achieving all those programmes, of course, that are being implemented in schools and all those institutions that we talked about. Therefore, I cannot agree with you that this cannot read that this is a priority given the increases in other areas. You mentioned an increase in the government's position, but there is also an increase in this section for the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. So, on all these items, there are again increases directly related to this ministry. I think that the actual amount of billions and 270 million from last year is enough to talk about what kind of increase it is. You know how much an increase in the overall budget is, so when you put it in that context of increasing concrete resources then you see that it is indeed a huge amount of increase.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1489	Dear Representative Mirjana Feric-Vac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1490	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President and Mr. Secretary, fellow MPs and fellow MPs. In this House of higher education, we have testified about the strong and very specific guidelines of the Government of Croatia's programme and the critical views of the opposition on the same subject. And the intention of each government is, of course, as credible as reflected in the budget that this same government has just referred to Parliament in a procedure. I would primarily like to refer to those elements concerning the international position of the Republic of Croatia in this section and how the government proposes to finance this important part of the functioning of the institutions of the Republic of Croatia. I believe that this is one of the key elements for the future development of the Republic of Croatia not only because it means associations that are a common goal for the welfare of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but also because they are pulling a whole series of reforms in the internal legislation that are important to all of us. My briefest comment on this area would be a little lost in the budget. Dispersed by various sections of measures to finance quality engagement in the international field are insufficient and in general they are insufficient. So, but they're vague, imprecise and unspeakable. And very often they do not contain a projection component for 2009 and 2010. We have a section concerning the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union programme, which as such is lost entirely. True funds take over one part of this program, but if it appears and disappears, then at least it is required in the accompanying explanations to find out why it is. I would also point out in the area of international cooperation and one element concerning international activities in the protection of families, young people and children of 700,000 for 2008, and then there is no projection. It's not possible there's no projection in that area. The implementation of the foreign policy of the Republic of Croatia in which the arguments can be accepted. I personally can accept them and pay taxes for regular work, but I wonder what the promotion and information services really mean and why this sum is so scattered, it is low, according to the requirements that stand before us in these complex times of accession to the European Union. Then, the last item of promiscation and information continues to appear, was lost in the budget because as a suma sumarum might be impressive. This is how a man wonders who actually promotes, what he promotes, and where he promotes because these are very important issues in determining and rounding up an international event. They may also agree in the budget to increase the funds planned for regular work. But I think there is very little resources to perfect experts because very often it is very often about perfection and quality work that depends on and proper treatment, so I would say the treatment of the Republic of Croatia in a particular country, and in any case, the representation of the Republic of Croatia in a particular country. There are some indications about adaptations and the equipment of diplomatic missions, consular offices. Of course, I have knowledge that it's necessary. But we still need to know where and why and why, because it doesn't matter what missions and where they are equipped, and the budget, for example, shows no evidence of the increased financing of diplomatic and consular representations and missions in Brussels and New York, which, by the circumstances, is the centre of the European Union and membership in the Security Council of the United Nations, are very reference places for the foreign policy of the Republic of Croatia today. I'd like to mention one important element in which everyone always talks, everyone mentions it. He's underfunded. Promotions of culture in the world. From 2006 to 2008 million and five hundred, and the 2009 projection increased by 82 000. Well, if it weren't funny, it would be sad because we know what a small sum of money is for the culture projection that matters to us. I would also mention one element, which is the meaning of economic diplomacy. There is no record of how it intends to be financed and where this element is lost. So has economic diplomacy been lost in the budget? I would also like to refer to that part of the budget, which is related, which is the prime minister at the session, to the first session of the Parliament, with absolutely nothing in its add-on presentation here. It's about sexual equality. I will personally talk about gender equality because that expression is more accurate and personal and closer to me. Today, there is much debate in the world of developed democracy about the gender-sensible budget, so if there were elements here about how it is not transparent, how it is not encouraging then it is not even gender-sensitive. I believe that there are MPs and advocates here to whom this is the case, but to be well informed about it because it is important evidence and what we have adopted in this House of the High in our national policies, etc. etc. I would also mention the area of civil society. I think it is a very important element, as well as the debt of every government to citizens and citizens of its country to provide quality and financially supported engagement in its community. In this context, I also mention the reports of the European Commission, and then I have to tell some of us recognised and important organisations in which human rights are often very difficult to assess. I think it would be really necessary for the government in that area to stay on that one level that we started five or six years ago, because it's important something. Human rights suddenly appear in 2008 in a sum of 500 and a few thousand, and then nothing. Yes, something is passed on to civil society organisations and advice, but every government is obliged to create an environment in the minds of citizens and in the public on human rights. Gentlemen, not only are human rights written on thousands of pages of paper, they are cut up and enrolled in the finest parts of human skin. The sum of the sumarum programme of each government credible, therefore as much as the same government is willing to invest in its implementation on the welfare of citizens and citizens. This draft budget is in front of these same citizens and citizens... visible daily at all reference places for the quality of everyday life, and about long-term planning not to talk. I would ask the Prime Minister, the Government's representative and other government representatives to accept the corrections in the analysis of amendments to this budget, because for all those lost positions in the budget funding according to the proposals that will come in the amendments, it will be a sign that this government listens to the voice of all its citizens and citizens, what they need today, and that it enables them really economic development that will provide them with quality life in this community and in the community of European peoples. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1491	Thank you. Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1492	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I will also, as part of my fellow MPs and MPs before me, say about this budget that, in fact, this year is ahead of us, the government's budget, which is one side of the HDZ government's work in the last four years, but on the other hand, and in some ways, compromise clearly in relation to what it says in the ruling coalition agreement, and will basically serve to maintain the ruling majority in this Parliament as well. The budget says no new projects can be read. The rate of economic growth is too low and unambitious and insufficient to ensure development, and not all the necessary reforms that we have been talking about for the past few years are being read and we do not work very hard. However, so far, this lack of ambition and a clear vision of economic policy has actually been manifested, and it is no wonder that this is the case with this budget. In fact, from the budget, there is definitely no vision or knowledge of how to provide what citizens will actually perceive for a year as successful or unsuccessful. It will be perceived primarily in terms of the quality of its own life, which means whether their standard has grown, whether it has grown for everyone in this country and not just for some. It will be perceived as successful if it came and if real wage and pension growth is expected, new jobs etc. But basically this budget this year offers a nominally higher budget, so the higher budget, and actually the salaries and pensions of colleagues and colleagues are actually falling, unemployment is growing whatever anyone here thinks about it, and the economy is stagnating. When we talk about unemployment, I hope you have looked at the Croatian Employment Service report for the January of this year and how no one was concerned that for the first time in a long time in January this year, unemployment increased by 2.6% compared to the previous month. It seems to me that no one has said it here today in this hall, so unemployment has risen to 262,000 or so. Or when it comes to pay. My colleagues and colleagues can also read this from different statistics, that for the first time since March 2002, wages have fallen realistically by 1.1% in January this year. That's what I say can be found in all the statistics, in all the state statistics. And inflation has been said several times here today, for the last month it was 6.2%, in December it was 5.8%. And basically what you can expect, and that shows this budget, and a further real downturn pays. At the end of the line, trade unions were among other things and therefore did not want to give a green light to this budget on the Economic and Social Council. In this country almost 300 thousand families, not persons, 300 thousand families live on the edge of poverty. When I talk about these families, then we are mostly talking about older households, people over 65 and single - parent families. Speaking of single-parent families, Opačić spoke of the government not being in any of her programs, nor in any of her budget items provided for anything about single-parent families, and that's true. But there is something in the national policy for gender equality, where it says a programme for the economic empowerment of single parents, the main holders and tasks are the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, the Ministry of the Family, the Croatian Institute for Employment, the Ministry of Health, the deadline for implementation in 2007. As far as I know, since 2007, nothing has been done, and according to the budget as it is now, it will not be done this year, nor is it foreseen in the projections until 2010. It's talking here today about an increase in the pension mass, and I think some of them seem to me 10 percent more for pensions this year. Yes, but it is forgotten that this increase in pensioners will not feel when it comes to average pensions compared to average salaries. Well, she's somewhere today at 38%, and those pensions have been dropping for a long time. That's what you're not talking about here today on behalf of the government. Or, the other day I asked Prime Minister Sanader a question in the current class. Last year, we passed a Law on an add-on to pensions that we should have dealt with as a matter of a backlog in pensions, so-called pensions. New pensioners and when we claimed, and now we say that it is not true, it has proved this year that 200 thousand of these new pensioners do not exercise the right to the supplement and will not achieve it, and we have warned and offered other solutions, and that is the fact that these 200 thousand pensioners are just the ones with the lowest incomes between 500 and 500 kuna. At the very least, it is somewhat irresponsible then to say that these 10% pensioners will feel very well about our pensioners. In Croatia, three-quarters of households have a problem covering basic living monthly expenses, and they and others like them, I am afraid this budget does not give too much hope. In the second part of my debate today, I would like to say a few sentences about the issue I have been particularly dealing with for the past few years, which is the issue of gender equality and I will first express my disdain, protest or whatever it is you want that the Committee on Gender Equality couldn't hold a session yesterday to discuss the budget because colleagues and colleagues from the ruling party didn't come to the meeting of the committee. I think it is irresponsible because it is still a debate on the state budget as one of the most important documents to be brought in in one year. Secondly, since it is Minister Schuker I would actually like to ask the question why this government has been persistently for several years, it is also showing that this year is being silenced or neglected to say so one document adopted by this House in 2006 by a national policy to promote gender equality. According to this national policy, I am not talking about last year where half of it has not been done, and in the following year, so in 2008, a number of ministries that have certain obligations from this national policy in their budget items have not foreseen a single word of swearing to implement national policies to promote gender equality. The exception is the ministry, such as the family ministries, which allocated funds to implement a strategy to protect against domestic violence as well as the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Development and Reconstruction this year for the first time entered an item of 50 thousand kuna, and the Ministry of Education in that part of sport, an item of 100,000 kuna. I will therefore prepare amendments that will require the Government to introduce new items through all ministries to discuss the implementation of a national policy to promote gender equality, because they cannot agree that the entire policy of gender equality, the implementation, in fact, of policies, is being shifted to burdens, i.e. on the back of an office such as the Office for Gender Equality. He can't do it alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1493	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1494	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In fact, it is incorrect for the government to ignore the implementation of the National Programme for Gender Equality, because this budget shows that, for the implementation of the National Programme for Gender Equality, this government singled out 2 million and 45 thousand, which is 22% more than last year, so.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1495	My colleagues, please, please. We can't do this. [[Intruder: But you said incorrectly, that the government is ignoring.]] My ladies, don't do it like this. And respected representative Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1496	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In fact, fellow Sobol said and determined that there was an increase in the number of unemployed in January and therefore pulled out the thesis that there was no reduction in the number of unemployed, which is incorrect. It is simply a seasonal oscillation, but for your information 38 thousand employees are more in January 2007 than in January 2006. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1497	Thank you. Dear representative Vesna Škulić. He was supposed to be Mr. Ronko's representative, but we'll always make an advantage. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1498	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here is the principle of positive discrimination. Thank you very much for that. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here I would first like to congratulate Mr. Minister and Government on the consistency in ignoring. Four years ago, when I asked the question when the discriminatory VAT payment measure would be lifted on imports of cars for civilian disabled people, I received a reply from the Deputy Prime Minister when the state had money for it, and then I asked you personally what you replied to me to find a model, but you did not know when, so I received the answer that you should not return this right to comply with the European Union. So you weren't so consistent with the answers that you were consistent with in your efforts not to return that right used by categories of disabled Homeland War. Congratulations to you and the government that you have been able to endure four years of ignoring the needs of people whose cars have truly been orthopedically helpful. Congratulations to you too on the consistency that you have not raised your personal disability this year either for lip, and the number of users who will be able to achieve it will have to meet very strict criteria. Congratulations on identifying you in this category of socially endangered strong people who can literally live on bread and water monthly. You will admit that even you must admire someone who can survive a month of 270, up to a thousand and 200 kuna a month and cover all the cost of life, but let’s not fool ourselves. With this inaction you pushed users of personal disability, users of aid and care allowances far below the poverty line, locked them up and threw the key into the well for the fourth year in a row. Even when they're receiving those receipts, it's somewhere before the end of the month. This month, for example. They only received their personal disability on the 25th of the month, so two days ago. I have already expressed my dissatisfaction with the Committee on Human Rights on this distribution of State budgets that do not monitor the growth of living costs, or offer no solutions to protect those who will be consumed by small incomes anyway. I am not comforted by the indication that another task force has been established to determine who these people are with the most difficult degree of disability who make their incomes in different systems because we know what such working groups are for, that they never finish the job. I also congratulate you on the continuity of the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for persons with disabilities who held even one or two sessions last year. I say one or two because the minutes of these sessions are impossible to come by, and last year they had 422 thousand kunas at their disposal. This year they've only given them 586 thousand kuna, so I hope they hold at least three sessions. And if we could look at the web a little bit. The department of the family, defenders and intergenerational solidarity station would see the Committee update its website more rarely than hold sessions. There is absolutely nothing on the pages except the names of the members of the Committee and the plan and work programme of the Commission for 2005. And among other things, the Committee is the advisory and expert body of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which should provide proposals, opinions and expert explanations in the field of position, protection and rehabilitation of persons with disabilities and their families and to carry out activities aimed at their well-being. I wonder whose welfare this commission is doing? All I'm asking is, has the Committee been involved in making a proposal for the funds of this budget? And this year we see here again the item of affirmation of rights and the promotion of politics for disabled people, the social empowerment of disabled people. However, how to strengthen people who live mainly from social incomes, whose education is unaccessible, who do not have access to the open labour market because after two years of sleep, a fund that still sleeps in the dark is awakened and is mostly working on retaining jobs already employed by people with disabilities. Doesn't this government encourage entrepreneurship, employment, social inclusion? Of course it doesn't encourage and can only join the despair of all those you've pushed on the sidelines of society by letting out the smoke screen as if something was done through a pilot project that would never turn into laws. And I congratulate you on that. I believe you understand my irony. And of course I won't raise my hand for this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1499	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1500	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd just be brief, not correcting incorrect allegations. I meant it first. But from the presentation of counterpart Škulic, it turns out that this government has absolutely done nothing for people with disabilities and that they are the most endangered group in today's society. I can't say that they live as beautiful and wonderfully as many in this society, because thanks to their work, they can contribute to their own restraint. But you can't say, from this budget we see how much this government thinks of people with disabilities from increasing the state budget of the Professional Rehabilitation and Employment Fund. And we are all in the best interest of hiring people with disabilities so that as little as possible of those on social benefits and as little as possible in a group of people with disabilities as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1501	Thank you. Replica reply, respected representative Vesna Škulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1502	And I can't agree and I can't disagree. Of course every government does something, more or less. However, if we just stick to employment, there are stories to be told. So, first of all, I'm curious about where the 2004, 2005 funds came from a fund where no other person was employed by the fund, through which the fund. Second. The fund supports existing jobs already in place. However, I would start with education. So, where are the affordable schools, kindergartens and all that. The state is also obliged to adapt all public institutions this year. However, a very small number of ministries show items on which they provide funds for the accessibility of these same facilities, etc. And we both know that the people with disabilities live on and out of which money, starting from 270 kuna, and let's say a thousand, a thousand and 200 kuna, if they're lucky to live in the city of Zagreb. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1503	Thank you. State Secretary Zrinka Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1504	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament! Here, just a brief look at the question that was asked a few hours ago, actually the problem that the distinguished Mr. Radin had asked about building a sports hall in Pula, in the Italian high school that was agreed on, which should be financed together with the Italian Union in equal proportion. So, I would like to point out that financial resources are secured and in chapter 015 in the position of the KP79064, therefore, capital investment in education. Here, just so short. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1505	Please. Dear Representative Zdravko Ronko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1506	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! Well, as my colleague Linic said earlier, the government has great power. Given that I am that power and sensed, I would not talk today about whether this budget is developmental, social, whether it is in the function of increasing unemployment or stagnation of the economy, pardon. He would rather speak by the pressures of the government, the central government or how someone here mentioned "rightant to local administration and self-government", of course by democratic methods as the government president said the other day. Well, it all started somewhere in 2004 with a new government. You know that at the beginning of 2004, the Ministry of Finance braked the payment of 14 million kuna to the city of Požega on behalf of the purchase contract of the tax building, the tax administration, counting on us to fall or kneel. That didn't happen. It then reaches for other methods. I'd say more democratic, which means they sent us all kinds of inspections and all kinds of surveillance. So when they didn't give the results either, and then simply Minister Roncevic hit the Požega thing with a military democratic coup. And you know very well that there was a ratio of strength 10-9. And if we were to call a session of the city council, the minister would simply not say I recruited or mobilized the council president by inviting him to Zagreb. If that didn't go away, you know that Minister Roncevic was sending a dispatch that whenever we call a session, it was at that time that the president of the city council was informed that he must be present. And that way, I was calm, so be quiet while I'm talking, so if we were to schedule at 13 o'clock a session, Minister Roncevic would have sent a dispatch at 13 to choose to draw. If we move the time at 8:00 a.m., we happen to send a dispatch at 8:00 a.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1507	But please, please colleague counsel...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1508	Yes, it is. Okay. Here, so much for these methods. But here, they managed to bring down power, they called new elections, and after the new elections, you know how the HDZ went. And that's when what started and it started and actually I'd say it in a way of diving because since then the door for us has been closed, since then you can't run almost anywhere because everywhere you get an answer run for next year, this is almost until you have parallel authority in our area, you know it very well through the party and that some get sanctions if they have certain contacts. And of course, when it comes to this purchase deal until today we didn't get 14 million kuna, we were forced to press charges.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1509	Comrade Ronko, please, the subject is the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1510	Yeah, the theme is the budget of 14 million, right. There's a countersuit. After all, let me cut it short. The municipal court and the county court both for the lawsuit and for the countersuit have ruled in favour of the city of Požega and that verdict is a powerful and executive and that means 14 million kuna plus 9 million interest. We haven't been on top until now just for the reason it was winter, we didn't need it, the interest is pretty good. And we expected the minister to put it in the budget to settle this year or through a projection this three years. However, by reading this budget, we did not find that item anywhere. So, this seems to have been forgotten, and that's why through the amendment, we're going to propose to increase the position of "IRS" by 14 million and a new position of 9 million kuna interest. And we suggested that it be reduced at the position of "Supply of transport vehicles in road motor vehicles" where 73.7 million kuna is foreseen. The second thing I'm going to talk about is certainly a difficult financial situation in Požega-Slavon County. The longest-ever HDZ mayor has left us with an amanet and long-term damage of 308 million kuna and as I hear today because the minister said that the counties are obliged to settle and lose in health we add to that 48 million kuna of health losses in Požega. So, something over twenty budget years. The longest-ever mayor, of course, patented us first in Croatia for bankruptcy in one of the county road administrations. We're the only ones who have a pharmacy in bankruptcy. We've sent the county center into liquidation and they're out of county radio. So, the situation is as the state auditor said, that's her statement, not mine, far worse than Ronko says. Right now, the state of the county is next. Based on the executive solutions and solutions of the trade court we have 112 million on our backs, 180 million kuna is still in slow motion and we have a load of 16 million kuna guarantees. With banks and creditors, we deployed 112 million kunas through the programmes to 23 years of age. Last year we made it out of modest funds because our budget is somewhere on the basis of 18 original incomes, 18 million kunas, we settled 7.5 million kunas. However, 17.8 million kunas follow us in these reprogrammes this year. You know, our budget is somewhere 19 million kuna, it's an impossible variant so we can settle it and, of course, Požega-Slavon County threatens total collapse and financial breakdown unless the funds are secured in the state budget. That's what Minister Schuker and Prime Minister know about, because they've been asked by me, but also by the new mayor to settle the damage and resolve this situation. You know that the Law on the State Administration System has established that if the damage occurs through the illegal, irregular action of the Authority of the State Administration to make up for the State budget or compensation of the Republic of Croatia. You also know that we have sent more than ten requests to the competent authorities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for control but that nothing has moved from place. Namely, what happened? The government simply put its head in the sand and forgot about Požega-Slavon County. The controls were permanent in the city but none in the county even though the calls were for it. However, we believe that now is the time to resolve this, to clear this up before we are forced in any way to inform all Croatian and European public and all relevant institutions, and to ask them for help for the possible terror of those democratic methods of fighting for the government as you have said we will propose another amendment, which is to ensure for 2008 those 17.8 million kunas as much as we are now asked by the believers and for 291 million without those health damages we are prepared to further agree and figure out how to overcome this. And finally, I mentioned that HDZ's longtime mayor managed to bring the pharmacy into bankruptcy. We tried to save her, we tried to save the objects from the auction. So far, we've managed to settle $4.4 million, we've got 300,000 left to pay for the tax administration. The trade court hastens us to make a deal or go to auctions. We made a written application to the tax administration, we phoned Minister Shucker 50 times, we can't get to him, the secretary won't let us, etc., not to talk about it now. However, we have received an answer. All we wanted was for the Ministry of Finance to simply withdraw the application of that claim and we're ready for a ring payment and we've asked for a payment. We got a response from the tax administration on 14th. The only possibility of withdrawing the application by the finance ministry is the previous settlement of the 100% demand. Mr. Minister, we didn't ask you to forgive us, but we only asked for a rouble payment of 300,000 kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1511	Thank you very much. We have a violation of the Rules of Procedure of Mrs Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1512	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Ronko hurt his rules of procedure throughout his exposure and that of Article 210. He spoke exclusively of his county's problems. So each of us of 153 MPs could discuss the state budget. Therefore, this is not a county assembly but a debate on the state budget, and please read pages 78 of Article 210 in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1513	I didn't listen to the gentleman, I can't comment, so we'll get over it. We have a correction to Mr. Huška's incorrect quote here.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1514	Thank you. Mr. President, I will correct two incorrect allegations from the former mayor, the current mayor and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. First, the Ministry of Finance braked the payoff. The real question is, when did the minister of the Church, the former finance minister, sign a sales contract with the city of Požeg? Did he have a mandate to sign such a contract at the end of the term of office when the elections were already called and put the Ministry of Finance and put the Ministry of Finance in such a dubiosis when they already knew they were going to lose the elections is the SDP? The second correction to the incorrect quote is the following: the ministries, the doors of the ministries are not closed to our county. The fact is that within two years of the revolutionary change of government in Požeško-Slavonski County and the arrival of SDP to power, no programme has been run by the Ministry of the Republic of Croatia. No single program has been run and then it's no wonder that there are no funds in our county, that the original budget of the county as one... [[The speaker doesn't understand, speakers speak out loud.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1515	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect alleged Mr. Representative Boris Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1516	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. An esteemed colleague, Ronko, has made a false claim that the government has power. Mr. Ronko the government has no power. It's true that the government is in the service of citizens who have given it trust, and you know how this SDP went that clearly cannot be reconciled that once upon a time it had all power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1517	The replica of Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1518	You're also claiming to our public that the court has ruled, so it is existing a powerful court ruling that seems here or in the House that some will not admit and the government will not recognise that decision, 14 million kuna and because the debt of 9 million interest is not recognised in time. So the damage is, the state is caused by damage to such a self-willed one, and it's known exactly who's doing it. So he's existing a final court ruling. In this budget, there is no payment of 23 million kuna to the city of Požega. And now I ask that the Government who wants you all to perform here together both towards its own citizens and towards Europe in the 5th speed vehicle of the reform of the judiciary puts in motion and those who do not want to recognise the judicial decisions can dreform the Croatian judiciary. The decisions of the judicial authorities are ignored here. So how can someone reform the judiciary? You should reform yourself first. And for starters, choose to do it, because that's not the question whether you do it or not, but you have to do it. It's a crime of contempt of a court ruling. It has always existed in our Croatian legislation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1519	Ma'am, none of this Mr. Ronko said what you're replicating. Mr. Ronko, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1520	Thank you very much. I'd just replicate in that part that talks about whether we had a high-quality contract? Of course it's quality. That's confirmed by both court and court. But allow me to tell you what's in the verdict? The ruling states that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has actually delayed the procedure, that it has abused the rule of law, that it has invoked laws that are non-existent, which are no longer valid and that it has called for laws to be written. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1521	Thank you. On behalf of the Government Minister of Finance Mr. Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1522	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, we should know that the state in disputes is represented by the State's attorney. So as long as the State's Attorney's office is making complaints and objecting to the verdicts until then, we can't. However, because of the Croatian public and because of the truth in the rebalancing of the budget that was made in the tenth month of 2003, funds for the purchase of the tax administration in Slavonska Požega were provided. About how, why I don't want to talk because I think it's the only tax administration the state has bought from local self-government units. It's also very interesting that according to the authority of the court expert, the assessment of that tax administration was about 12 million, forgive me if I may be mistaken for a few hundred thousand kunas. Also, the assessment of authorised persons in the tax administration was about 12 million kuna. And now watch two estimates of 12 million kunas at the same time Mr. Ronko and Mr. Church is making a deal at 14 million. Also from 2000, in fact, in 1999 to 2003, about 3 million and 300,000 kuna were spent in the tax administration's arrangement, which is not even an acceptive in the conclusion of the contract. The third thing, certain facilities made by the Ministry of Finance, it can be seen from the credible documentation as vaults have also been sold to the tax administration. So how can someone teach the IRS what the IRS did? A parking lot has also been sold for which the town of Pozega has been charging for parking in order all these years. So that's what was the predecessor. The government headed by the late Mr. Ivica Racan made a decision on 23rd, practically after the election to sign the contract, however... Very interesting in the government's decision. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I find that correct and fair. It has been said that the legal work must be completed by 31.12.2003. It is in the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I'm not going to say now which, at that time, people who were in front of the SDP were headed by certain organisational units at the Ministry of Finance did not want to sign an order for the contract. The other thing, when we talk about whether someone wanted or didn't want to, the finance minister doesn't sign a single payment document as far as the tax administration is concerned. Practically neither. Thus, the director of the tax administration could have signed and paid the bill by the end of the year. But obviously something else is hiding. The city of Požega has come into financial crisis because of the strange way the bonds were issued and needed help. And let's help in this way. And now someone, I'm glad Mr. Ronko is laughing at interest and I'm glad he says that the city of Požega is going to make so much money. The town of Požega is also Croatian. So it's not a question. But here is a matter of justice and a matter of principle. Mr. Ronko, your party colleagues who were in power until 23.12. So until the takeover, they could have signed it neatly and paid for it. The correct decision of the government was and I said so and pointed out, because it would be unfair not to say that this legal work should be completed by 31.12.2003. Why didn't you do it? I don't know. So don't blame today neither this government nor HDZ, something you didn't do yourself. But I repeat, the former justice minister should know very well that the interests of the Republic of Croatia are represented by the state's attorney. The state's attorney's office has launched another dispute parallel to this dispute, which is to annul this contract, in fact, to examine its legality. And I'll say one more thing. My colleagues and colleagues, it's not right, and I don't want to comment on the decisions of the judicial authorities. However, it is very interesting that the contract states that the court in Zagreb is competent and that all proceedings were conducted in Slavonia Požega. I repeat, which is the moral right of someone to pay for what you already paid. I repeat, three million dollars have been invested by the Ministry of Finance in the arrangement of the Tax Administration, several hundred thousand kunas in the construction of the store and anyone who makes any purchase contract I'd like to see that you fellow Churchenac made such a purchase contract, so that you sold private property to write 2 million bigger contracts and not fight over what you invested in the facility and increased the value of the facility. So that's what we need to discuss when we talk about morality and honesty. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1523	Mr. Zdravko Ronko.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1524	... Secondly, it's a perfectly legal and moral contract, and I'm going to tell you that I'm correcting the wrong assumption that you said, Mr. Minister, which is that the contract is estimated at 12 million kuna, or that the building is estimated at 12 million kuna. [[The speaker was subsequently activated.]] It is only one thing that in 2002 we began negotiations, that in the spring of the third month we conducted one and the second evaluation, that the estimate was 12 million 780 000 kuna and you know it well. So, not 12 but 12780, that all decisions were to be made on both the government and our headship and our city council, from January 2003 to 9 months 2003. So, during that period, since the contract was concluded in 11 months after the government gave the last light, then you need to know that both the price of 12 million and 780 kuna came to 14 and there's an estimate that speaks of 14 million kuna and you know it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1525	Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1526	Here's Mr. President, everything Mr. Minister has stated in connection with this contract is incorrect and false and relevant, because about that, Mr. Minister, the court has ruled and you have to pay for it, or to secure those funds, and the state's attorney has nothing to give here a green light because the state's attorney's office here was a party to the proceedings. And the state's attorney's office lost the dispute in your direction, because if it hadn't been so persistent and less cost, then the pay would have been less. But you persisted and stalled in the process, made complaints, and then the interest went up to nine million kunas. You too must respect the court's decision, and it is regrettable that in the Croatian Parliament you clap such a tenacity that court decisions are not recognised.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1527	And the correction of Mr. Joseph Leco's incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1528	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is indeed inappropriate for a minister in the government and in a country who has a democratic structure and the division of power to call for the findings of the witches, and to ignore and deny the judgments of our courts. In a state that says to itself that it is democratic, it has the power to divide the government's power to deny and ignore the Croatian court's final verdict. It's more than a legal crash. So don't deny and ignore judgments. Do them and it is your duty, not to refer to the findings of the witches when there is already a powerful verdict.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1529	I don't know what the correction is about, except for that claim right now. It's Mr. Agent Dino Kozlevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1530	Dear President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, allow me a few words about the budget, i.e. about the procedure in which the Assembly is located, which means we bring the most significant financial document and generally one of the most significant documents on the basis of which many things will happen in a positive and negative sense in the country. That this is how all attention is given by units of local, regional self-government, our municipalities, cities according to the central government and by procedure, by the very process of adopting a state budget. The budget process comes with the government, it's made by the Ministry of Finance, the competent ministry, and it's here today before us. When we remove a little bit, I'd say even an academic discussion about the budget and the figures. There were statements that it was a big game, that it was big or high-tech calculation, budget, figures, etc. However, we cannot take the impression when things are simplified that there is one problem that many in the country have faced in the process of budgeting we have also faced, given that we have received a budget in which most of the figures are indicated. So the numbers. There are items on which we are discussing today. It would be much easier to discuss the budget if the component of this process were also the monitoring programmes, i.e. the figures and financial indicators and the financial plans and the budget would follow the work programmes, so that they could take a parallel look at both the figures and the items. . /. Why do I have to say that for one reason? We had it here, in the previous assembly of one ministry, today from that ministry we know for what reason. There is also one ministry, so there is the Ministry of Tourism, the Ministry of Regional Development, which is the same from one ministry, regional development, forestry, etc. And now we've met to have a few items, and I'm only going to talk about this one famous item called capital support. And the capital support item here, specifically through the three ministries, we can look at capital support in objects like this, such as that, means decided etc. However, these items are generally large, so they are large amounts, find millions of amounts, and I have no doubt that in each item they are contained as an integral part of a particular project. However, the fact is that no more significant project in the public sector in the Republic of Croatia can be done today without co-financing of important or less important, whether primary or less primary without co-financing by the Government or central authorities. It is therefore of the interest of both the municipalities and the cities of the units of local (regional) self-government to learn that they have insight, i.e. whether certain projects have been adopted, are not accepted, whether they are an integral part of those items located on a particular scale, means in certain paragraphs according to individual ministries, funds both budget and non-profit. When I say so, we must take into account and make a commitment that no major project can be done as a rule without the central government speaking and that, and you will all agree, because almost all parties in the election time had one of the essential provisions that we must work on decentralisation of the state. That's why we're all together, I think most of us have admitted that our country is centralized, that there is already a higher level of decentralisation achieved in the European environment and that we as a state will have to go towards it. Normally, that decentralisation is one procedure that needs to be done, and that's one, we realize that it's one procedure, that it's one procedure, that it's something that takes, that can't be passed by decree. However, the fact is that in this period, while we do not have essential decentralisation, I am personally and we expected that there will probably be an essential decentralisation. When we talk about core decentralisation, I think that municipalities, cities, or units of local (regional) self-government will have their own original income, meaning original revenues that will be an integral part. We're in a phase today where we have to get out of a centralized cash register, so we have a budget, we have two levels of money, so we have a level of money for decentralised functions, and we have a level of money that's being collected, which we call a settlement fund. About decentralised money would also not be controversial if they were in technicals, they are income units of local self-government, but in the technology of the distribution of decentralised money there is exactly one technique, and these are criteria. The criteria are re-worked within the ministry, so there are bodies dealing with the setting of criteria and then, on the basis of these criteria, there is a drop in funds for those decentralised functions that are now in the jurisdiction of municipalities, cities and counties. I come from the constituency, and I'm going to stay in Istria County, which is usually with decentralised funds or with a settlement fund, which is usually a problem with the criteria. There is a problem with which these criteria, given the level achieved, the level of individual and standard and the level of each level, these criteria and the distribution of money are generally not enough to settle those functions and the needs needed for these particular activities that are decentralised and I would like to say, require additional funding from the budget of municipalities, cities and counties. So the whole point of this is not to tell stories but to all that we want or not, we know that European countries are decentralised somewhere in a fundamental sense up to 30% more, perhaps less, but here we are, without taking the number, here we are moving somewhere. We must come up with a fundamental decentralisation that will thus free both the initiative and creativity at lower levels, and in terms of better and better quality development of the overall Republic of Croatia. As for the county from which I come, I cannot express my satisfaction as the distinguished colleague has previously expressed satisfaction with the so far invested and with what will be invested in this period given what can be read from this budget. In addition to what we cannot read from those items called capital support, etc. We can't be satisfied and we'll still expect problems precisely because several and activities that determine Istria, and that's road construction, so the state of road infrastructure is like today's distinguished colleague said that we don't have a single meter of highway and we pay both tolls and bridges, we have problems with the hospital, we have problems with the railway not to say, I will dare say that it is not, do not take me literally, and an integral part of Croatian railways because it is physically separated from the Croatian railways. Therefore, all of the problems we have and all of what we are facing cannot be optimistic that this state budget will respect these interests especially from the level of the Istrian County. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1531	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Nevio Šetić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1532	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable Madam Representatives, MPs, Mr. Minister, members of the Government. Here is to say about the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008 with a 2009 and 2010 projection, I think that, and also because of the public, some macroeconomic opportunities in the environment, because the facts say that the budget we are talking about today is planned for 115 billion, i.e. 119 years ago, in 2004, the budget was only 80 billion. So recorded growth wanted me to admit it or not, and I'll tell you one more piece of information that seems to me to be very important for Croatian citizens to all of us. Gross national income or GDP in 2000 was believed in Croatia or not, 48 thousand 419, and today 2007. ...we're talking 61 thousand 860, and it's planned to grow to 68 thousand 202 in 2008. So it's a lot or little that are facts, it's ours, it's the possibility of our common growth best used as possible by that growth. It is evident that Croatia is growing, that Croatian society is developing, and that we can do better and better. I also want to say that it has been continued since 2004 for the government of Dr. Eve Sanader until 2008 that these indicators are in constant growth. So everyone who says it's a fall, that goes to worse, they're wrong. I also want to say one other important fact that we have also managed to reduce the government deficit that is in constant decline and we are creating more orderly state finances, and so are what we are planning. I also want to say that this applies to employment. I want to talk today about two areas of this most significant one, I would say documents for the Republic of Croatia and all of our citizens, and that is the state budget. I would like to tell them about these development projects concerning the infrastructure development of the Republic of Croatia and the development of a knowledge society. Infrastructureally, if you are looking at maritime transport, rail, road, there is continued growth in the budget as planned for 2008 and for the 2009 and 2010 projections. As an MP from the 8th constituency, I would like to say that I am pleased that this year the highway to Rijeka will be completed, that the construction is already started, it is about the bypass, that the construction of the highway is already under way and that the Istrian ipslon is starting to be built, that means that the second tube of the Učka tunnel is being breached. And what is important for us, Istria, and what the Croatian public must know about the bridge across Peljesac and to southern Croatia, Croatia remains unintegrated in rail transport through the Učka tunnel and today it is truly absurd that we are coming across Slovenia to our capital and I think this government and Prime Minister Sanader announced this will have the courage in this projection for several years to begin to solve this issue. But that's where we have to be completely open. So huge projects expect us to lay fingers and solve so it's absurd and impossible, but I'm convinced that we all have the strength to do it together and do what every modern state has to do, and that's to be integrated, connected, to grow out of itself. We expect that this rail line direction towards the river that is working, that this good foundation is that this train tunnel through Učka definitely integrates that space. I'm sorry about this little depression, but it fits into this projection for the next one. I want to say something more in knowledge-based society here. Wherever you go, wherever you're working with the country next door, everyone's talking about a knowledge-based economy, knowledge as the main activist of society and here and those most critical readers of this budget see that the Croatian government has been investing more in education and knowledge since 2004 than it invests in other ministries, which says that the trend of growth and the achievement of this policy is there. I'll say it again in numbers. In 2003, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports had a budget of 7.7 billion, and today the 2007 budget was 10.7 billion, and the 2008 projection was 11.7 billion. Therefore, growth is evident and there is evidence of investment in society based on knowledge that is realised across all segments of this complex area. I'm going to say, and you may not all know that the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, which is running plan documents and strategic development in that area, employs 83,000 people, from preschool to university, institute and all that belongs. The fact is, we'd want everything right away. That reminds me of that anecdote when Francis Joseph I. In 1918, he had just received a delegation from Croatia and then when they said the Croats came, then he said, and those are the ones who want everything right away and don't know what he wants. I'd like us to ignore and forget that kind of thinking forever. We need to know what we want, we need to know how to use what we have, I assure you that we know. I can say something from a point of view as the secretary of state who was in this ministry and I'll say the following. Croatia, which is being monitored and developed in this budget, can be traced through all documents, has approached its national girlula in education, and these are not small things for everyone if we want to be honest with that fact. Because we all know that we didn't have an independent external evaluation in education, we all know how hard it was for generations the government was struggling with it. Today we are also a step to this segment that completes the overall educational course in compulsory education. What else we have done and what encourages this budget that is ahead of us. It also encourages the rounding of compulsory education in the Republic of Croatia, but the point of compulsory education extends to 18 years. All countries that think of themselves as compulsory education have extended to the first profession to oblige all students to attend school so that they can get a better qualification, a better chance for life, a better chance for the labour market, and Croatia has done so. It's an honor to all of us. It's good for one, the other and the third, education can't share us. I think that direction should be supported, it's materially supported here with the means, it should be done. But look, it can't be done overnight. So this procedure must be respected. Also mandatory high school is being introduced gradually, you know that this year's second grade is going to go third, etc. I would also like to say that the completion or production of a national girllum that continues on to university and university work should be said next. Croatia has accepted the Bologna process, it is a complex process, it is a complex restructuring within, but this binary system already produces huge results. Take only six new universities that we have, six new polygons, we already have all our distinguished wineries... They're already at the wine-making university in Istria, for example. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They may not need it, they may have done it without that school, but they're holding on to our system, they're holding on to education, they're holding on to raising quality infrastructure, and it seems to me that it's common good, and it seems to me that in this budget there's something that's still being funded, something that's further developing. These are projects that must simply grow together with us, they must grow together with macroeconomic and other situations in the Republic of Croatia. I'm going to say the same thing that we started in 2004 more intensely, which is school construction. Whether or not we want to admit we are a step to the situation today that we will no longer have three shifts in Croatian elementary schools. Take only the City of Zagreb which had 23 schools in three shifts in 2004 and with good activity on the inside will fall to 10 in four years, and very quickly below that number. I think it's a success for all of us. I also want to say that investment in school equipment at all levels is seen as growth. Of course that's not enough. So how's it gonna be enough when only four, five years ago, we had a completely opposite situation. Let us take an example for the City of Zagreb, then we understand that. Thus, the space is huge for investment, transparent and clear in this segment is the most invested and invested and the trend is growing we expect in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1533	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1534	Well, here's my colleague, Lugaric, who's had a correction before. All right. I'm really in an awkward situation right now. I'm trying to listen to what you're saying, so what's a colleague of Matusic, and some of them are saying. And then I wonder why the high school boys in the Vinkovci and the Vukovar strike? Why did they strike if it's high school for everybody? Why is their bus ticket too expensive if they have free transportation? Something's wrong with that, you know. There's another mist we're moving through, like mist and schoolwork. I have asked three times as a representative of Minister Primorac to provide me with information that 244 schools have been built or built up. I didn't get an answer for that. So, no data, we don't have the data that 244 schools were built and built on state money. But we do have a situation that the EIB2 was in this House in 2004, and that no other EIB2 shovels were stuck, which is why the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Connections and everything else that was so far failed to select projects but was chosen only in the 9th month of last year. And this year, the EIB2 becomes an operational programme from which schools will be built. So that's a fact. No one slows down what's been done. But don't make one haze about free transportation for all high school kids when they're not. About how schools were built when they weren't. About that...... EIB2 speaking. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm talking about EIB2, no. ... Yeah, yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Come on, then, be specific. Therefore, the fact is that in the state of knowledge, in the country of knowledge, high school students in Vukovar and Vinkovci were strikers because their parents did not have to drive to school and back.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1535	Thank you. Answer, sir... Thank you. Answer, Mr. Shetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1536	I'd like to respond to Mr. Lobster's replica. I think Luigi Pirandello wrote that drama "Evivo" that was a misunderstanding. There was a misunderstanding in Vinkovci. The students were manipulated and their rights were secured, written. They thought it wasn't. So that's settled. I also allow that there may be a problem with the use of this. As for schoolwork. I personally opened at least 70 objects. Although I don't like to open it, there are documents based on financial and other copies for 288 objects in four years.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1537	Replica, Mr. Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1538	Thank you. I'm glad that so many schools were built, but when in the 2008 budget debate we love so much in 2003, it would be interesting to know how many of those you opened started in 2002 and 2003? But that's defemous now. What I really wanted to notice was a national curricula. I am very pleased that from HNOS it has moved on to national curricula because it is also a different concept, not only of terminology and of the modernisation of education and education programmes. I do not understand, however, how it is possible to extend the national curricula to higher education especially at universities. So the ministry can't do national curricula for universities because the higher education programme is in a distinct and exclusive autonomy of the university is, so I'd like to ask you to correct it, I didn't report for an incorrect quote, to correct that claim, because it simply can't be a fact. And about some of the other elements you've instructed me to discuss some details. But again I point out, in the example of higher education that is directly related to scientific research, all those programs that have been drawn, highlighted, etc., it is not possible to solve with this so to say by financial infrastructure. In the explanation of the ministry, for certain items I see, the express verba states that 30, slightly less than 35 million are foreseen for scientific research equipment that is new for its maintenance and procurement, which is absolutely inexplicable or insufficient for the implementation of all those programmes which, among other things, were in scientific research activities and in scientific technology activities, were specified and approved.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1539	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Shetic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1540	Yeah. Here you go, Your Honor, Mr. Representative. I agree with the National Curricula. I didn't think the ministry would work, but on such grounds, the academic community would do so. And we've already got that in both high school and university, and it's developing quite nicely. Second, as far as the store and the construction are concerned. Well, of course it was, and we finished it. And education is very difficult to divide into one period and another. So that continuity must be. We appreciate that. And we've installed about 800 people in the curicula. We didn't ask anyone who... What he knows is basic education, what brings us together. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what I'm saying is, yes, that's mostly what I wanted to say on this replica of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1541	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1542	I would just ask my colleague Šetić, how and exactly did you start building schools or what school building you're talking about when, by law of 2001, it seems to me that the construction of the school and the entire investment maintenance has been decentralised, or what is being said conditionally from the state budget's funds is going through the CEB or EIB, i.e. it's mostly in the Ministry of Transport and everything else? I, for example, know personally about the school in Gornji County which applied for CEB4 which could not be built because for more than a year your ministry's consent was awaited on the school's idea project. I just want to know which schools are being built by the Ministry of Education?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1543	I must honestly say, I wasn't talking about the Ministry of Education itself, because our school-building system is on several levels. The first thing you mentioned about decentralised funds, the second level is something from the Ministry of Education, Science, and then it's the Ministry of the Sea. And at these levels, that is, I was talking about the overall budget of what is developing. And in that respect, I couldn't count all the schools right now, but maybe 50, but I couldn't count all 288.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1544	Correction of the incorrect quote, Mrs. Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1545	... counterpart Šetic is investing more in the Ministry of Education than in other ministries. [[The speaker is not understood because of the announcement.]] And that's exactly what your quote was. Since the Ministry of Defence is investing 19% higher, the Ministry of Economy 9.66% higher, the Ministry of Agriculture 12.05%, and I better not tell you percentages of the government that are mostly from central state offices that are mostly over 30%. I remind you, the Ministry of Education is 8.66%.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1546	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1547	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, members of the government, honourable MPs. Allowing this budget to come down to the concreteisation of the Government's programme through monetary amounts is also evident from today's debate that SDP's representatives with full responsibility as they discussed the Government's programme, as well as today's draft budget, wanting to make their contribution to the adoption of a better budget. I will dedicate my part of the debate to a part of the budget that speaks of agriculture. Usually, agriculture and agricultural production are related to eastern Croatia, i.e. Slavonia and Baranja, as well as other parts of Croatia that depend on this production, and this production has a greater or less impact on both the standard and the work of these inhabitants and the lives of these inhabitants. In today's assessment of the development of agriculture through traditional factors, which are the country, work and capital and Slavonia and Baranja were then promised a country. However, the presence of science, technology, entrepreneurship, economic policies is increasingly important. If we could sort of factor out all of this, there would be answers that are the development possibilities of Croatia's agriculture. It's that we're a country that has a perspective in agriculture. However, these projections are unfortunately not worth today either in the Government programme and not in the proposed budget in part of agriculture. Neither the government's programme nor this budget has given us any indication that larger procedures will be made in agriculture, that there will be reforms. Reforms are sometimes painful, and that is probably why we are offered compromise shifts that are in the function of daily policies that temporarily resolve the problem. It's like buying a pig, buying a hero, compensation for the damage to the drought but not solving the cause. At the same time, the provision of sufficient amounts of food cannot be imagined without its own production. Croatia as a country that has its own production resources and can create self-sufficient production because it has both knowledge and people, its own technologies. Once known Slavonian-Baranja technology in the production of wheat and corn, which resulted in European and global results. We're talking about education. We have colleges, universities that deal with knowledge and transfer knowledge from agricultural production. And we have people who can lead and create that production. But by all these positive factors, I think we fell to the lowest level with over $2.1 billion of food imports and the biggest imbalance in the last year of $837 million. In particular, there is a marked imbalance in the import of live pigs and meat of $259 million or 31% of the total imbalance. Here is what the Prime Minister mentioned today that the export index in last year was 119.1 because the agricultural exports were 110.3 and imports were 116.4. So we're importing again. However, since the exports were so small, the imbalance grew by an index of 127.3. All of this just presented can't and I don't see the way out or the answer that would give us this budget. The part of the intervention budget on the market of €200 million relates partly to the intervention buying-in of pigs of 44 million or of cattle of 50 million and, at the same time, to capital investments completed in 2007 for bovine animals, is planned for 60 million, for pig farming of 38 million. From what I've said, it indicates that the first assets partially solve the resulting problem of "excess" drowned cattle and the second enables further uncertain production. The question arises why I say uncertain. Because with cattle and meat coming out of the farm after the end of the buyout campaign of 1.4, that and with that ransom will be filled in by the stock of the meat industry and what will happen to further production that should be taken over and bought. When we look at this imbalance that's present if we're counting from a ton. Tonnes imported in 2007 470,000 tow pigs of 30 kilos or 180 thousand tonnes of tow heroine of 150 kilos that were drowned on our farms and went for the market. What, though, makes this surplus appear? Well, it appears in this part because we've also imported slaughtered meat if we recalculate 324 thousand tow pigs of 100 kilos and 13 thousand tows of 500kg. These issues should also be addressed by budgetary means in the realisation and formation of production relations because otherwise this little production will also be produced because we see how much imports we find in the situation of disappearance. Already today there are certain signals from the field especially from Slavonia where some pig farms are slaughtered and the basic herd. And when that gets slaughtered, then we know what we're going to do, that we're going to depend entirely on the import part. I would also like to mention one example of the disappearance of once significant production in Croatia, which this budget does not speak of very much. It's about freshwater fishing. There used to be 12 and a half thousand acres where 16 thousand tons of freshwater fish were produced, and today only two and a half thousand hectares are produced. The ponds are being extinguished as Benski Vrbovljani, Lipovljani, Dragalić, Vrbovljani and so on. But I... The same part of them, reduced large, first of all, that production was exported out. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 60% was exported to Europe by that fish, and who is exporting to that fish market today? They're exporting our neighbors to Hungarians, Czechs. They managed to implement structural reforms, maintain production and proposed and thus take over those markets. The proposed budget mentions only 10 million to maintain the ecological system of ponds. It's translated to settle the damage from the fish... A bird. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The exit is a complete consolidation, sale, privatization of these ponds and a reduction of water charges not to exceed 4% of total income. And a quality increase per hectare of production. In the end, I would say that the agriculture minister at the Committee on Agriculture, the minister at the Committee on Agriculture, said global relations in agriculture are changing. From the use of agricultural products for energy, biodiesel and so on to climate change. Common droughts. I think that we should overcome it and become a country that will not depend on food imports because food imports the poorest countries and should therefore boost the competitiveness of our agriculture by investing. Unfortunately, we don't see it from this budget because it's not a developmental one, but it retains the existing state. And that existing state from these parts of the data that I've presented is certainly not very good with us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1548	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1549	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The colleague incorrectly stated that neither the government programme nor this budget offers any solution to the difficult situation in agriculture, which is incorrect. The Government's programme clearly lists measures and land policy, fostering agricultural production and creating competitive, competitive agriculture under its programmes and so on. And it would also be very bad to say if the agricultural budget was increased by 2008 to 32.6% compared to 2007. Of course these, together with the government programme of course and the budget offers a better future for our village and agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1550	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Zeljko Vincelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1551	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues from the 2008 National Budget Proposal and also from the 2009 and 2010 projection, unfortunately, we cannot draw the conclusion that local administration and self-government will go better. Because the budgetary trend is still centralisation, not decentralisation of financial neighbours. I cite only two examples that municipalities, cities and counties go as bad as previous years or even worse. First, capital donations to the county road administrations in 240 million kuna are the same as 5 years ago, which means that today they are worth half as much. In 2009 and 2010, the same projection of these capital donations is repeated to the county road administrations. Second, the Regional Development Fund. I come from Krapina-Zagorje County, which unfortunately looks at the back of most Croatian counties, and for us and similar poorer counties were founded in 2001, the Regional Development Fund, whose activity is to promote uniform regional development in order to gradually reduce the differences between the richer and poorer areas of our country. One of the two fund programmes that should lead to this objective is a programme to promote regional development of infrastructure and economy. According to the Regulation on the terms and conditions of use of the Fund for Regional Development, the Fund’s resources are also intended to implement infrastructure projects that are a prerequisite for economic development and economic projects which are profitable export-oriented and encourage the employment of the local population. It sounds nice like this in theory, but practice through this budget unfortunately speaks differently. In addition to all this avalanche of increases by these or those ministries and funds, the Regional Development Fund has planned funds per county in less than 60 million kuna compared to last year when it was around 150 million kuna. My county, for example, got 13 and a half last year, and these should be triple that. 3.6 million kuna. And of course, it's about projects that have started and should take place in some decent dynamics, and with this money we can only buy the funds needed to preserve the investment that started. What's the trick? We know, of course, that last year there were increased pre-election divisions in the targeted parts of the county, but in 2006, it wasn't an election, and in that year, according to these projects with the name and last name of course by county, I'm talking about this part of the distribution within the Fund was distributed almost twice as much money as is planned now in 2008. This isn't good. With these drastically reducing aid to poorer counties, the government sends a very bad message. We will never achieve a uniform regional development like this. The next item of our agenda after this State budget is the National Programme of Railway Infrastructure for the next 5 years; from 2008 to 2012. On page 17 of that National Programme, it will be supported with two billion 644 million kuna in 2008, and here in the budget of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure under the clear sentence of Article 688 of page 261, two billion kunas will be allocated to the implementation of the national railway infrastructure programme in 2008. So no less than a full 400 million kuna, but in the first year of implementation of the national programme. I'm asking you, what's the difference by 2012? ... Less, yes. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And with what conviction and credibility are we going to discuss tomorrow the implementation of this five-year National Railway Infrastructure Programme? I know that there are other railway items within the budget but there is a nice implementation of the National Railway Infrastructure Programme clearly and loudly. I live in a county with a catastrophic state of transport infrastructure. I will talk about the railway tomorrow as part of the debate on the national programme, and now only part of the Zagorje roads. Anyone who tries to ride them will know what I'm talking about. First, the highway Zagreb – Krapina – Macelj will agree to one of the most important road routes in the Republic of Croatia. The road represents a door towards Europe and should be a much higher priority than many other projects I consider in the Republic of Croatia. The 2004 contract with the concessionaire decided that 3.7 km of highways on the most demanding part of Krapina to the Macelj border crossing would be in half a profile with one wheel bar. For years we have been looking for the construction of a full profile of highways both for the safety of traffic and for non-transparent car columns during the tourist season, national holidays and holidays. According to unofficial data, the average daily annual traffic in 2007 was around 17000 vehicles and average summer, daily traffic between 35 and 40,000 vehicles. Second. The highway from Zabok to Krapina was built so that the state road D1 popularly called the “Zagorska highway” on the run from Zabok to Krapina was installed in one lane of a new highway, so from “Zagorska highway” it remained only a section from Zagreb to Zabok and from Krapina to the border crossing of Macelj. The town of Krapina and the county at the time of construction of the highway insistently seek to build an alternative road between Zabok and Krapina before the end of the highway. 9.2.2006 closed the car-road collection system without the construction of a parallel road for local transport of the population and the economy. The toll is almost twice as expensive on the highway as the average price on the other highways in the Republic of Croatia, and I repeat 3.7 km is half a profile. This year we welcome toll collection by 11% on average for all categories of vehicles. I note that road transporters from Krapina-Zagorje County are those who own 10% of the total transport capacity in Croatia and are the most massive economic branch in the county and have the most expensive toll and no alternative. It was only three weeks before the highway was put into circulation because of political pressure. Namely, the 10 000 signatures of our county's citizens have been collected explicitly by the ministry to give consent to the construction of a merger road between Zabok and Krapina with an expected start of work in this first half of 2007. Here comes the first half of 2008, and we only have a solution from the Ministry of Environmental Protection that the intended construction is acceptable to the environment. Bagger's not even in sight. We believed this budget would bring them to the site, but we were wrong. Third. The road which means life to both the local population and the economy is a fast road Zabok – Marija Bistrica – Popovic with a merger on the Breznik Hum which connects some 15 municipalities and cities of our county which have long since been in all state traffic strategies and traffic spatial plans. Papers are still being made, and we hear we're getting a simple road with two wheels and not so soon. And lastly, the road of death, the old “Zagorska highway” from Zagreb to Zabok does not go into reconstruction this year. It was built in the late 1950s, and since then, nothing has been done. Driving by route Zaprešić – Jakovlje – Clear is an adventure. Many have lost their heads in that adventure. In the last 8 years, about 450 accidents have been reported and 35 people died. Only last year in 70 accidents eight dead and fifty injured. Obviously not enough to see and preserve human lives by proposing the 2008 State Budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1552	We have Mr. Kresimir Gulic's correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1553	Dear President, colleagues and fellow MPs. I must correct Mr. Vincey's incorrect claim. Already on several occasions here in our hall is mentioned that here is the local self-government I haven't known in the last few years, my colleague said the last five years the cities and municipalities haven't felt any improvement in their budget. I must deny it because I come from the municipality and four mandates I am the head of a larger municipality that is not true, especially when we return one year back to the amendments to the Law on the financing of local self-government di that part of the income tax went to local self-government units and part of the income tax was a lot of criticism and misery that some municipalities and cities would not lose large millions and millions. In the end, it turns out that this is not true, that only some citizens in our country may have cut the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1554	Thank you. Milivium Schwartz. Correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1555	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. My colleague Vincelj made a few incorrect allegations. I'll comment on three. Question, correct three. The question of the Regional Development Fund said that it was reduced to a third of the realisation in 2007. It is simply not true, because the plan is 175 million, but not all allocated directly to the county but are special two items for the infrastructure, and we also know that the state budget in several elements plans to isolate for local infrastructure. It is also commendable that he mentioned some infrastructure problems in Zagorje. However, it is incorrect that the contract on the construction of the Zagreb – Macelj highway was made in 2004, but it was when Minister Cacic was at the head of the ministry and there was a famous story and a tale when he said "you can only dream of a parallel road".
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1556	Thank you very much. Replica. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1557	Well, I'd like to replicate my colleagues as far as road construction is concerned. We had this document a month ago called the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme for the term of office in 2008, 2011. The first year of office was in 2008 and it was logical for at least one quarter of what is written here to be entered in the budget. One of the most important things for us coming from local backgrounds, and then we talk about our counties and our cities because we are best and we are familiar with it and that we will also make a redistribution of funds in favour of the county administrations of roads or the budget of units of local self-government etc. etc. which is obtained from the state by at least 70% at the annual level, which means that what we already have for the fifth year in a row recorded 240 million kuna for ZUCs was to be increased by 70% this year and that is one of the many items that are listed in the HSS coalition agreement, HSLS and HDZ in the government's programme, not listed in this budget this year or in the projections for the next three years. So this item is absolutely ignored. The worst conditions in the roads are currently on Croatian county roads because since 96 they have been continuously neglected and no new ones have been signed up at all, as if no county road has been made since 96th to today. They're being legally spoken of. Thus, the government fully ignores what is written in its basic document, which describes what will happen this year and the projections for this mandate, which has been entered here in the programme, which is that every year the ZUC funds will be increased by 70%.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1558	Answer, Mr. Vincey.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1559	The data I mentioned with the Regional Development Fund refers to the exact address, which is the data of the hundreds of millions in 2006. 150, 2007 and this 60th 2008 These are taxed amounts from county to county. I agree with my colleague, Schwartz, that there are additional amounts within the Regional Development Fund's budget, but they're round and round and we don't see who's going. Here I'm only talking about the comparative of what was and what is being obtained today, and these amounts are of course selective nature and decide on some other moods within the government. And just for a little while. As for the list of contracts with the concessionaire, it is true that the contract was signed by Minister Kalmet in 2004, but unrelated to who signed it, the Government of the Republic of Croatia said and agreed to build a parallel road, promised it in 2007 and we have not yet reached the stage of those first basic papers.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1560	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1561	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. First, I'm gonna start with a little dyspression. I'm extremely glad that Mr. Minister is with us today all day, unlike other ministers, but he is sitting in the benches of MPs. In many European parliaments, the president would warn him, as the Rules of Procedure clearly state that members of the government should not go out of place for them. No one's above the MP, and we're acting very differently here. I will continue in a way, and I hope you won't mind me, I won't talk about outside or internal enemies, we discussed them a few minutes before the president returned to the assembly, because I am deeply convinced colleagues and colleagues that we can and without them act equally destructively. Give me first a chance to say a few words about what I heard at the beginning of this point, regarding the statements of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. The Prime Minister began his presentation in a way that linked Croatia's macroeconomic policy, the Homeland War and the 2008 budget. I don't think it's necessary, I think it's deplaced, even untasteful, to always return to the Homeland War even when that war is in no way preventing us from coming up with a strategy for the development of this country. I beg you fellow I speak now, I will respect you when you speak. If you want an example of what I'm saying. Germany was in the ashes and the dust. 15 years after World War II, several million Turks, Italians and former Yugoslav citizens worked in Germany. Furthermore, there have been a lot of speeches in the debate today about what economic growth is, which is inflation, etc. etc. My colleagues and colleagues, if planned, and we heard from the finance minister this morning, you also said that economic growth would be 4.6% and inflation would be 5.2%. I'm not getting into it if it's a success, for some it's a success, for some it's not a success. But that's pretty much what you're going to earn 4 kunas more, but in order to survive, you're going to have to pay 5 kuna. If I give you four kunas and I take five, you call that a success? It's called robbery, robbery, theft, countless names we have for it when you take more than you give. I'm a cartoon now, but I'm sorry if inflation is going to be bigger than economic growth, and it's closely monitoring and wage growth, etc. Mr. Minister, allow me and you must allow this approach to be mentioned at least if you disagree with me. Furthermore, the budget deficit 2.3% of gross social product, you explained nicely why and how. However, should we be proud of it, pointing out that it is good. The message is being spent more on the citizens than we are on our way. That's right. We'll spend more than we'll have clear money and that's the way to look. Yeah, to simulate that for a single worker, for a fisherman, for a peasant. Let's tell him what's going on. We'll have an obligation to pay 5 billion kuna credits you said... It's a credit card. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So now the question is to explain the key, what kind of loans were they? Whether it was development loans, I'll accept it because it'll pay off quickly, the citizens will get a job, we'll fill the budget, etc. It's crucial to say, it's the only key to saying about 5 billion, nothing else matters. Whether they're pretty or ugly isn't important, but the structure of that loan is important. There's nothing we can ever be told about. Encouraging, encouraging entrepreneurs, economic development, etc. Again, we don't know what the activities are, we don't know what the priorities of this government will be, we don't know what the criteria for giving certain incentives will be. We don't know much. My colleagues and colleagues, you just go on the website of any European government and you'll see how they simply show it to their citizens. If a young man wants to self-employed, to open his own crafts, his own company will be small, what is offered him? Is the state helping him? It certainly does, but it even suggests. The young man will come to the Employment Office, to a local bank or municipality, and will have the same information in one, second and third places. What information? It'll stand. You see, in our country, we import these 224 products. Gentlemen, if you want to produce this, you will get the most favourable loans with the longest payment delay. We will clearly help you in that case. It is clear exactly what country needs, in which direction the incentives, which are criteria, are the conditions for obtaining such incentives. We have never seriously discussed this, nor have our citizens any help in terms of suggestion. Look, when such a citizen in Europe takes such a loan, who is his guarantee? The state is immediately behind it, because it is in the state's interest to remove these imports, to encourage exports, etc. The European Union has been mentioned several times since our prime minister this morning as one of our priorities. I totally agree with him here. However, I must say again that some things have remained completely unsaid for us. No one has talked today about what the European Union is seeking, and so do we. The European Union is based on what? The Lisbon strategy they brought in 8 years ago, which they completed in 2005. I am interested in how our Government sees itself in this framework proposed by the European Union, recommended to the Member States, and then it is probably understood that one candidate country should go with the same logic, set clear goals, and then set a clear budget and its overall behaviour. We never talked about this strategy, about the way we want to join that strategy, etc. We've heard all kinds of praises about education, science, etc. We've heard all sorts of things about the Bologna Declaration, both on the board today and here today. I don't know if any government ministers can tell us about the Bologna Declaration, how much is expected to be allocated in 2010 for science and research? No one mentioned it. Are we really going to reach that goal in two years? I'm deeply convinced we won't reach him for another 20 years, deeply convinced. No one mentions that percentage. Nobody says why or how. We are running away from these figures, from the data, and Croatia is a signator of the Bologna Declaration. It's an international agreement that we're running away from, and we don't want to talk about it. Croatian Society of Knowledge. It's nice to hear, but 26%, so every fourth highly educated citizen in Croatia works where today? Beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia, which I cannot accept. It's embarrassing, it's bad, it's a terrible loss of potential. We educated these people, we created them, and then they went to work for someone else. Not a word of it. In short, the 2008 budget is a budget without clear economic guidelines, without clearly set targets. It is a budget without a development strategy, it is a budget without clear priorities and criteria. This budget may, colleagues and colleagues, please your coalition partners in the government, but it will definitely not satisfy the expectations of our workers, citizens and others.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1562	Thank you. Mr. Representative, you have also noticed that you have criticised the Minister's visit to the parliamentary benches, the occasional visits of the ministers of the parliamentary benches, there is nothing in the Rules of Procedure, and I have also noticed the visits of MPs to the ministerial benches often. Both of us are positive for me, we strive for mutual understanding and good cooperation. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1563	Thank you, Mr. President. He incorrectly stated that it was declassified and unnecessary to mention today's Homeland War on the 2008 budget. Well, it's not true for one single reason why the consequences of the Homeland War are financed in this state budget for 2008 with nearly 10 billion kuna. So the direct consequences of the Homeland War are being financed through this budget in 2008, not to say that the needs are probably even bigger. I think that your claim is quite incorrect and that we should mention and that we should remember, and if you want to talk about II. World War II. The world war is much more often mentioned in the Croatian Parliament than in the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1564	Thank you very much. Correction, Mr. Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1565	Your Honor, Mr. President. In fact, the esteemed colleague responded to the correction of Mr Doric's false allegations, just to confirm, and I find it difficult not to refer to any other facts related to the Homeland War, but to the budget of the 119 million kuna, more than 8 billion kuna in the various items mentioned in this budget are certainly a worthy topic for discussion, and when it comes to the Homeland War in this topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1566	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1567	A colleague, Doric, listed some 8 incorrect answers, but I will base myself on only one, which is that we do not have visible indicators and data on encouraging entrepreneurship. That doesn't suit the truth. The funds set out in the budget to strengthen the competitiveness of the economy are visible through the promotion of exactly entrepreneurship and the promotion of the employment of counterpart Doric. If that's so clear, I'm telling you, the truth is that we have indicators in this year's budget for small and medium-sized enterprises, it's practically 48% more funds. In particular, to encourage, you said there was no such thing. You have an estimated 247 million. For the development of crafts 23.6. Entrepreneurship 712 and not to list your distinguished colleague. To encourage employment of €273,8 million, etc. Therefore, it should essentially go the way that labour market offers must meet the needs of the economy. Do not express what does not correspond to the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1568	Thank you. It's Mr. Agent Ante Kotromanović's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1569	Dear President of the Parliament, fellow MPs! Looking at this budget today and yesterday, I realized it was a budget that would be somebody's mother and someone's stepmom. There's something going on everywhere, it's building up, it's working, it's breaking, it's breaking apart, except in the area of Sinj and the Cetina region. I'll tell you something about the uninvited. The Cetina landscape was badly injured and devastated in the Homeland War. Almost half of that old Sinj municipality was occupied, destroyed, burned and burned. A lot of people have been displaced. One piece has now returned, and the portion has remained down around Split and beyond. In parallel with it, the economy has stagnated, collapsed, so these days the factory "Sinj", the factory of the end of the "Dalmatinka" in Sinj, had to put the key in the lock and is in bankruptcy. About four thousand people are at a employment desk in the city of Sinj. It's one big number, given that the Cetina landscape is one small environment that's not as massive and there aren't so many people as in some other space. As many times as this time, the budget has been bypassed by the city of Sinj and the Cetina region so extensively, as soldiers would say in a wide port like a storm or from the storm itself. I don't think that's correct and that we should have done something for that Cetina province and for the people who live downstairs. No capital investment relevant for Sinj is included, not in this 2008 budget projection. There's no "B" from the fast road Dicmo-Sinj, and she's vital, she's terribly important to these people. A colleague used to say, it's a road that's terribly busy, there's a lot of accidents, there's lots of deaths, and it's necessary and it's important to connect Sinj with Split and the highway as soon as possible. There are also no projects or detours of the town of Sinja. And he who passed through Sinj during the summer could see what terrible crowds they were and how much they were waiting for until they passed the few hundred yards, for Sinj is a small town. There is also no provision for building a sports hall, nor for building the elementary school "Fra Petar Vucković". And on the gasification of the Dalmatia of the Republic of Croatia, Sinja is gone at all. As some kind of ghost, that city simply disappeared from these places. You can also see that these days a new reconstruction of the Croatian Army, the teaching centre of Sinj, has also been moved even though 300 employees will get a schedule somewhere from Dubrovnik to Vukovar, which will also further compose the situation in Sinj itself. Son, as you can see, changes. It's no longer a militant, combative environment, so it seems to me that the main event in Sinj is to host turbo folk of this folk singer Seka, but as it's called, and that's what it seems to me the only interest in these people down there. Nothing, zero of life-important projects. What do you need to do to make something run down there? I don't know. Who needs to be licked? We're ready to do anything. If we have to, we'll declare the SAO Krajina, the S.A.O.C., just to make something to get things started down there from a dead end. Perhaps that, there is no Mr. Jarnjak, perhaps he is, knows the answer to the question, because he has become an expert on opportunities and troubles these days in Sinj, so perhaps he would know the answer to what and how and whether something can be done for that space. One part of the Cetina region is also under mines, but this year we separated 176 million from the Croatian Mine Action Centre. And we'll still get about 60 million loans from the World Bank. Do you know how many Croatia has today's square kilometers of unminded and those under dubious surfaces? About 900 km square. According to a national programme that Matesha's government has brought already, it means almost a century, a national programme under which Croatia's state should be demined by 2010. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I also appeal to a finance minister who knows the demining situation to raise funds for demining. They're very important and important. You can only see how many people die every year, how many people die every year, the pyrotechnics get killed. And we have such good and trained technicians, which are about 600 in Croatia. We've got a state-owned Mungos company that's out of business every little strike. And we definitely need to find and find and find the opportunities to do something useful and demining the Croatian State. Croatia is a tourist country too. And it wasn't pleasant to listen a few years ago when that tourist on Vis died when he lost his leg. When we talk about the Ministry of Defence and looking at the budget, I am in principle satisfied in terms of increasing the funds I welcome. I also welcome those new things that are foreseen in the budget itself, and I think that's good. But what worries me in one way is the resources provided for the National Programme for Psychosocial and Health Assistance to the participants and victims of the Homeland War, which have been slightly reduced compared to last year. We had a board today. We talked about something on the board, and we made some conclusions. But I think that we need to improve the health care of defenders because we have a lot of lawyers who are not disabled, and these people are not very well covered by this Law on Defence, nor are they particularly depicted. I would like this Parliament, and I would like this government to create a program that prevents the defenders I say are not disabled, which means that maybe every two years for people who are jobless, who were five or more years in the Croatian Army or less, to introduce some preventive checks, to see which categories of people die from. And people die all the time, constantly. And that we have this kind of attitude and the way we can solve that problem. I'm also not happy with this stable problem when we're talking about this category of people. The resources for stable disability problems have been increased and seem sufficient for this year which is good and should, of course, be welcomed. But again, I'm talking about people who aren't disabled. Croatia has about 40,000 people with disabilities, and we have a number of 500 thousand defenders. What about that big difference? How do these people, how do you get them a job, how do you get them an apartment? I suggest something similar to what the government did with POS. Let's start some kind of initiative, do something, and get that category of people who are really at risk of social economics to do something, to make sure they get a few funds. In the end, this budget for me wasn't developed. He's neglecting some environments and doesn't give you a chance... The Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's why I'm calling my colleagues, primarily these IX colleagues. the electoral units to support me in those amendments that are related to the Cetina region of Sinj to gather the courage of those human courage and to support me no matter what political option it was and what party it was. I repeat, in that space, the situation is not good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1570	Thank you. Correction Mr. Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1571	Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I must correct my esteemed colleague Kotromanovic's incorrect claim that the government will be someone's mother and someone's stepmom. Obviously, in the meantime, I have to tell the truth before I answer the real truth that you're probably telling your colleague Kotromanović because in Sinj, your authority is now your authority and you think that our authority is acting as yours acted, as I can responsibly claim from 2000 to 2003. I can only confirm the truth and that because I come from that county, that the situation in the Cetina region is completely different. Infrastructure The Cetin region starts from the towns of Sinj and Trilja, and by part and Vrlika now without talking about municipalities is safe through water supply and through transport infrastructure covered and more than well as my Vrgorac and all the other cities and municipalities of our county which is the largest spatial. It's obvious there's something else wrong when you're talking about the economy and that's your government's incompetence over there that doesn't know how to put the Kukuzovac zone into operation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1572	Thank you. Replica Mr Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1573	My colleague Kotromanović, I am very pleased that you have come directly behind me because many have deliberately interpreted my intervention regarding the Homeland War in a completely wrong way. It's a sad fellow that this neighborhood of yours has not been restored today. That's sad. My intervention was going towards whom? In the direction that defenders today should not be reminded of what was at war but should be told clearly what awaits them tomorrow, what work, what awaits their children, whether we will educate them, whether we will be able to hire them. That's where I put my accent and I hope you agree with me. And I strongly support you in that such areas need to be restored as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1574	Mr. Kotromanović's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1575	I know exactly what the situation in Sinj is economic and every other. But I'm just going to remind my colleague that HDZ has been in power down far more than two and a half years now that the coalition is in power and that I know the problems that are down there related to the city of Sinj, and that there shouldn't be such a tough fellow. I know a lot of people down there from where you were born. I'm looking for help down there for that end. I was born in that neighborhood, I live downstairs, my parents are down there and I don't need to be so hard but help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1576	Mr. Matkovic is in violation of his rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1577	... I didn't replicate it for you. [[The speaker is turned on afterwards, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1578	The replica is such a broad notion that you can talk about meteorological phenomena if you'd like. It's Mr. Agent Luke Denon's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1579	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Let me try this simple way to explain why I think this budget, as this budget is proposed here, cannot satisfy those basic conditions, which is that it will live better in Croatia. Namely, I have a neighbor who is an average Croatian citizen, who is 30 years old, has a salary below the average of the Republic of Croatia, is married to him and his wife is in early retirement and has two children who are studying. As I come from Rijeka, from the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County it is common that first of these modest and such incomes all those normal obligations that should be paid for, such as electricity, water, rent and other costs, and what remains for schooling and food is that. When after the election and before and after the formation of this coalition government how we're really good neighbors and I don't know who he votes for, he knows who I vote for, he asked me, "Listen, what do you think? Are we gonna get better now?". I'm who I am because I'm SDP's, and I could've bad-mouthed after that, "No, it's not gonna get any better."but since it's my good friend and good neighbor I said to him "Honestly, I don't know. To see if we will be better in Croatia, let's wait for one of these budgets to be drawn, because the budget can then be seen if we will be better.". Well, now, I was a little skeptical because I was afraid I might have to tell him, "Yeah, it'll get better.". But unfortunately, when these macroeconomic frameworks are now being read about, and many today have been spoken about, where real GDP growth of 4.5% is expected and of course inflation of 5.2% and despite what we are, we have read as well as you that there will be some money to increase wages and pensions, it is obvious that these salaries and those pensions will be too low and that they will be able to buy less than they are bought today or than they were bought yesterday. And that's one parallel that gives me the right to say to my good friend, "Unfortunately, you won't feel better.". When we talked about it because we read it somewhere on Saturday on my CD when we got these macroeconomic indicators and I tried to explain to him that because of this macroeconomic framework and the slowdown of growth, but also because of the increase in inflation, but also because of some other things that we've said here that are not in the authority of this government, it's impossible for this government to resolve because these are things that happen like mortgage loans literally being said here and some other things of fuel collection. So the government can't influence that. We got a chance, and then we went over. We call it not in Slovenia, but we go to Trieste, Italy. It's for us across from the Primorje-Goran County and look wonders we expected the way we are like the Croats if it's so hard for us, if it's just the way it is for them? Because that's what bothers them, too. The same is the case with mortgage loans, the same is the problem with fuel collection and how we are here, in this period as we live and work, we have learned to buy Croatian somehow we have entered the store and look at miracles! In that store, Barilla pasta is cheaper than it is here because we like pasta there to eat. So the pellates are cheaper than they are here. And then I don't get it a little bit, I know, I can't compare, but I'm simplifying to explain what's going on in the world has and has to have a natural reflection on this budget, but I'm trying to say that the budget hasn't done what had to be done in the budget. To try to resist this and such fall of standards with our own strength in this way as he will inevitably, inevitably look. And of course coming home I finally told him it would be, it won't be better. I didn't say it would be worse. I believe it won't be worse than it is today. I want to believe that, but it's not gonna get any better. I would support that with another finding which is not said here, but which is clear and what I thought was that through the budget, this government would use the measures at its disposal, which are the measures of fiscal policy and some other measures to do at least if we were surprised by the growth of fuel and if mortgage loans and other things reflected in this macroeconomic framework that we have, I thought the government would then, because that's what I realized if I figured it out. I thought that the government would find what would not come to us for sure but what is certainly ahead of us and what has been announced, and it seems to me that Prime Minister Ivo Sanader announced it by saying that energy in Croatia is both electricity and gas and other energies will not collect until 6 months. Which means if he doesn't get to the 6th after 6:00, he's gonna pick it up. Now, I haven't found any measures in my budget that this government thinks so and such a collection of energy in the 6th month that will then have a drastic impact on the standard of our citizens who thinks by means of measures to treat this disease called energens collection, which we all expect in kind at the 6th month. Of course I expected and was surprised that, for a time, I felt that I was in church and not in the Croatian Parliament because we heard here that this budget was characterized and baptized. That she's a user, that's what she's like? It's conservative, it's dynamic, it's developmental. I expected, so now would be the time of the old good custom that now that I answer the word that I baptize him, I would baptize him if he were to be a European budget. He has a feeling and I want to believe that this government and the whole opposition have nothing to do with thinking that our common goal is to come and join the European Community as soon as possible. We are aware that we want to go to the European Community as quickly and as quickly as possible and as painlessly as possible. In any case, if some projections are to be adopted in the European Union in 2009 and some talks are to be opened, then in 2011, it is obvious that EU standards are both needed and demanding and certain reforms are required to adapt. It is necessary to implement these reforms already today to be ready when we enter Europe, and these reforms are not indicated in this budget because we have to start breaking them today in order to be able to implement these reforms in time. And to put it short, I see my time running out, of course I'm saying hello, it's customary for you to forgive me, so I have to get used to these new customs. It's customary to always say that the government is guilty of something. I welcome that this government has said that agriculture is something that is very important, something that has gone into the budget with big money because that kind of agriculture is what we need. But that's why I'm wondering if it's the end of time now because the coalition government is so and so is the HSS in that coalition. Why did this agriculture not identify itself as important in those four years of the previous term? You're also going to replicate to me that it's probably not good, that it's catastrophic that I'm talking here right now, but I'm just going to say it like this. I am running and respecting what Prime Minister Sanader said at the beginning that it is an extremely difficult time for Croatia. In these discussions and replicas that are good and your right to defend such a budget. It is also my right and it is our right to say that this budget is not good. Do not forget that your prime minister said that this is an extremely difficult time for Croatia, and in such a difficult time, this budget cannot satisfy that of my neighbour whom I must say that he will not be better in this coming period. And I'm afraid not even in the coming years.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1580	Thank you very much, Mr. Agent Denoni. Representative Frano Matušić reported on the correcting of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1581	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague said from what he was saying that it could be concluded that the last government was not important or important for agriculture. Therefore, this is not true because agriculture was very important in the past term from the end of 2003 until the end of 2007 as it is today. And these include numerous subsidies, numerous funds that have been given to open new farms and to encourage the planting of new plantations, olives, new vineyards and all those subsidies used by farmers throughout "Beautiful ours". Thus, it is a completely incorrect assumption that there is no standoff in facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1582	Thank you. ... What's that? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No, nothing. We're going with the 26th individual hearing application. This one is from the respected representative Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1583	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here's the debate that's been going on for a long time. I don't know how you do, but it's real to me to listen to this debate here all day, but it's full of cases of prostitution of the concept of a society of knowledge and not just today here in the Parliament, but normally in all public discussions. In his opening statement, the prime minister himself said that the strategic orientation of the knowledge society for the Republic of Croatia is also seen in the state budget. Especially through opening new schools and sharing free textbooks. But respected colleagues and colleagues of the knowledge society have far more components than the acquisition of knowledge itself. With the acquisition of knowledge, there are innovations, regulations and ICTs. For what Croatia likes to be graded on a flat-rate basis, and mostly it loves everything the same goes for the knowledge society. There are measurable indices in the world for that. In this regard, the World Bank has developed the most precise tool for positioning countries on the knowledge society scale, and generates a knowledge economy index. Croatia is on this scale covering 140 countries to 38 places, which is not a bad result in linear terms, but if we look at Croatia in the context of the European Union and Europe beyond, then we are poor. Only Romania and Bulgaria are behind us, although in recent years the two countries have been dangerously approaching us. In recent years, ten and 12 places have progressed on that scale while Croatia has returned to 6 places at the same time, and we have been overrun by both Lithuania and Latvia and Barbados. The average annual growth of our indices is at the lower average of Union growth which is not good, because we need to grow faster if we want to reach the index eight. This is namely the position from which we can start, but just start talking about Croatia as a society of knowledge. We're now at 7.05. The education index is even weaker. He's 6.47. How much more work do we have to do? I can illustrate the result and... research. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The results of our students are statistically below the average of 57 OECD member states and partner countries. One more piece of information. The annual colleges in Croatia end less than 15,000 students, and in order to achieve the European Union average, the number must grow to at least 35,000 per year. So more than double. At the same time, in the past academic year, 11% were enrolled less in post-graduate studies than it was in the year before. You and many other publicly available data tell us that progress is slow, too slow, if we have a strategic interest in achieving a knowledge society. True, we have many initiatives. We have many plans and strategies, but they remain a dead letter on paper. One such dead letter on paper is the work programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which was adopted a month ago or just over a month ago here in the Parliament. The government programme said that I quote “dividings from the state budget for the education, science and technology system in 2008 will increase by 10 to 15% in order to implement all programmes. One part of these programmes is also listed in the government's work programme. And where are we now when we have the budget, when we have concrete figures in front of us, not just promises. When faced with the fact that the government either gave up part of its education programme or didn't exactly write the truth about the government's work programme. The budget for education is increasing by 8.6%, which is neither what was promised, but it is not the largest growth of all sectors. Government funds rise by 30%, for the administration almost 10%, most central state offices about 30%, funds for MORH growth by 19%, the economy ministry nearly 10%, agriculture 12%, etc. So it's not exactly true that education is our absolute priority, as this was highlighted in the reasons of this budget and as some of our colleagues have said today. The situation is even more tragic if we look at the structure of the education budget. 70% of the planned and planned money goes to pay. This means that for innovation projects, we actually have very little money left. Of these 8.7% increase 6,1% goes to pay, and for all other investments, plans, commitments, we are left with only 2.6% of those 8% and some percentage increase in budgets. One dyspression, of course. This increase includes that miserable increase of an average of 50 kuna for the salaries of teachers and teachers who are more than embarrassing than really needed an increase. Because it's not clear to me personally today that the state has billions of kuna to build a bridge whose performance and economic profitability are comparable to building stairs by the month, and there's no one for what she promised in her own education programme. If we add the whole story to the math and inflation of 5.2% and the planned economic growth of 4.5%, then this great increase in education of 8% becomes a real decline of 1.7%. So esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I think I'm asking you somewhere to stop talking about the knowledge society, but we need to break down and start providing enough resources, as well as programs for which the knowledge society becomes our reality, and not just one more of the many polkkin villages that seem to be a little bit able to become the patent of the work of this government. On certain items and details of the education budget and part two, I think there will be more opportunities to discuss the amendments, so when the time comes. Personally, like other SDP colleagues, I will not support this budget. He's unambitious and conservative. He does not offer development and progress, and as much as we try to find an explanation in negative global movements, we must not tighten the belt across the back of citizens. In spite of the nominal increase, this budget also offers a stagnation of salaries, as well as a fall in pensions. With the stagnation of the economy and the low growth rate, it means that our citizens will live worse and will be able to buy less for their salaries and pensions. This, with an extremely unambitious budget for education, science and technology, which can be our only proportionate force, also means a lack of long-term visions for progress, and at least a few more years of taping and some sort of turning from hollow to empty. I don't know, but I know it won't be long. Croatia in its 18th year of its own existence, so somewhere on the threshold of adulthood, I think it should have been over children's disease and turn from mere survival to life full of lungs. In fact, our citizens, I think, and everyone together deserves to live better, but unfortunately this budget doesn't allow them to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1584	I thank you, and I'd be even more grateful for the minor mentions of very old crafts in the assembly. Now, we're going to continue with our next complaint application, which is from Madame Commissioner Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1585	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. With my debate, I would like to support the draft budget, because in our terms it is truly realistic with one clear goal and with a development strategy. This government continues the trend of really planning higher income growth from expenditure growth, thus reducing the deficit, investing in regional development in agriculture, warfare such as promoting tourism, infrastructure facilities and all of which, of course, also contributes to the prime minister of competitiveness of the economy, as well as raises the quality of life of our citizens. It is obvious that budgets are indeed distributed by respecting the environment where many changes occur. We cannot ignore macroeconomic data on a lower economic rate than 4.5% and a higher inflation rate of 5.2%. I'm going to give some examples of the social sensitivity of this government. Thus, the 2007 state budget provides 871 million kuna for the use of additional maternity leave and equipment for newborn children with an increase projection in 2008 to 910 million kuna, 2009. 250 million kuna and 2010. 988 million kuna. The funds for children's allowances were increased to billions and 900 million kuna in 2008, so 22.1 million kuna compared to the previous year. The birth benefits increase in 2008 by 170 million kuna compared to 2007 with part-intention and due to the decommissioning of wages during compulsory maternity leave. In 2007, four family centres were established between them and one in my Bjelovar-Bilogor County. At that time, 14 million and 900 thousand were secured, with an increase of 23 million and about 500 thousand for 2008. For the social empowerment of families, children and youth, the funds have been increased by 63.5%, mostly to complete a network of family centres whose task is to provide advisory and psychosocial support to families, marriage partners and children. The funds have also been increased to develop service activities for elderly people to 23 million kuna. There are also considerable resources to support the intergenerational solidarity programme for... A million kunas more than in 2007 and with an index of 106.2 in the 2010 projection. [[You don't understand.]] I am sorry that there is no colleague Škulic, who in her debate, ironically congratulated the government on the results of this budget, but I would like to congratulate exactly what this government has done for the disabled. From the accessibility of facilities, needs, for the needs of disabled people where the funds are over 2 million, for the annual fee for the use of public roads and tolls for the most disabled where we have 35 million, for affirmation of rights and promotion of disabled persons where we have 59, almost 60 million and personally for pilot projects the introduction of a personal assistant for people with the most difficult disability where more than 8 million kuna is involved, and 176 people with the most difficult type and degree of disability use it. To finance and co-finance the programme of professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled persons with relief and incentives in the employment of persons, the figures are not negligible if you look at the 2006 budget. 20 million, 2007. 43 million, and for 2008 48 million 250 thousand with an index of 110. For training for independent life and work, the government has provided 14 million and 996 thousand this year. Just for a little while longer for health care. In health care, costs increase from year to year and not only with us but also at global level, and surely new medicines, new diagnostics, apparatus, but also life-longer. We heard that around 22 million kunas were allocated to the Ministry of Health. In our country, health care is ten times smaller than in other developed countries, and yet external experts acknowledge that our medicine is at a higher level than we could expect given the resources that are being allocated in health care. I have recently asked the question of the lack of doctors in the Republic of Croatia and I believe that increased investment for the traineeship of health professionals of 65 million kuna and greater investment for specializations will help solve this problem. Namely, an internship is provided three months after the university graduates, which speeds up employment. Looking at the items from the Ministry of Health, it is evident that this government has decided to prevent disease, and I am particularly pleased. For example, prevention of addiction is guaranteed 16 million kunas, prevention of diabetes, prevention of excessive weight loss, malignancies over 11 million, which is 236% higher than in 2007. Following the prevention of early detection of breast cancer, primary and secondary prevention of alcoholism, the prevention of HIV by more than 4 million kunas, and I really thank this government for the prevention and therefore we do not have an increased number of HIV patients or infected in our Republic. This is one example of how HIV prevention is done. In 2008, the Office for Drug Control received 24% of the assets of more than 9 million kuna. Health programs are also aimed at preventing colon cancer, uterine, uterine neck mouth, prostate cancer with the programme of preservation and improvement of women's health. In order to achieve the rights of the social care system, there has been an increase in funding to 3.2 million kuna, 9.4% more than before, and these relate to changes in the Family Law on Alimentation or to increased funds for foster care. In order to pay personal fees to foster parents for the care provided and the efforts made in the daily care of fostered children or adults in the 2008 budget, funding of €26.5 million was planned. For the care of children without adequate parental care, 93 million kuna is allocated. The protection of military and civilian disabled wars follows. There are significant allocations for the construction of new social care centres 790 million kuna, which is 34% higher for capital investments. The social programme increased capital investment by 5.6%. It is further invested in health care on islands, professional training and other services are allocated 20 million kuna and for improving health care on islands for facilities and medical laboratories 11. One of the priority public health problems is mental health that affects the entire society, has a high prevalence often of a truly chronic course and early childhood, the government recognized these needs and in the budget for the Croatian Institute of Mental Health singled out a million 897 thousand 761 kuna. In 2007, it was 80 thousand kuna. I'm really glad she recognized the importance of mental health in our midst. About 300,000 kunas have been allocated to the national strategy to combat domestic violence, which goes on with the programme. Of course, the Ministry of Health and the entire health care is becoming and remains the issue of resuscitating the debt in health care, and of resuscitating the system, but also of the behavior of ourselves. I mean rationalization and consumption control. As regards the implementation of the national policy to promote gender equality, I have already replicated it to my colleague and I would only briefly refer to the Bjelovar-Belova County where it would specifically single out the allocations for 4 million kuna water supplies with further allocation projections, especially if it is known that only 30% of the population has liquid water in the Bjelovar-Belogorian County. We are proud to build a joint building for four secondary schools where it was allocated from the budget last year 40 million kuna, and continues to invest for equipment of 3 million kuna per day. I would especially like to highlight the House for Mentally Sick Adults in Bjelovar and the Centre for the Acceptance of Youth Children from Bjelovar where significant funds are allocated from this budget. In conclusion, I would say from the previous one, it is really visible how the social and development component has blended in in this budget, but there is a big job ahead of us, one of them is really a health reform that we expect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1586	Thank you very much, Mr. Caparin. The following is the turn of the replica, which was reported by MP Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1587	So since my colleague Caparin and I come from the same electoral unit, and the SDP was fortunate to have the citizens of Bjelovar and Bjelovar-Bilogian County show greater confidence in the SDP than the foreigners from which it comes, then I have the obligation here to say that I expected Mrs. Caparin as the representative of the ruling majority here to express the satisfaction that this year will finally begin to build a hospital in Bjelovar. Unfortunately, it does not appear anywhere in sight, and the hospital in Bjelovar is about the same condition as the hospital in Sibenik and it will obviously need to make a lot more effort to really come up with the right conditions for health care and the citizens of Bjelovar and Bjelovar-Bilogor County, not that the representative from Bjelovar tells about how health care in Dalmatia is equally good. And I also hope that when it happens, it will not become as difficult with this as it has become with the construction of four secondary schools in Bjelovar which entered the budget in 2001, which were only half-opened in the second half of this school year, and we see that budget projections for the four secondary schools are still planning to invest in those secondary schools for the next three years. So, four secondary schools in Bjelovar are built for seven years and are not yet completed, unlike the Koprivnica school, which was built in a year or an internal school in Koprivnica, which was built in two years after we overcame that massive obstruction within the HDZ club when the contract was first broken, and after that the contract was renewed. So, I expect you to do exactly as I'm going to advocate, as I'm going to write an amendment that you too advocate as a representative of the ruling majority to start building a new hospital in Bjelovar this year, because the citizens of Bjelovar deserve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1588	Thank you. Thank you. The reply to the replica will be given by the esteemed representative Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1589	Thank you very much. So, look, my colleague, I am absolutely for the hospital in Bjelovar, because this is what the citizens of Bjelovar deserve, but you have passed a law by which this hospital cannot be financed from the state budget, because the state budget is funded by state institutions and institutions in the area of special state care, and as far as building a hospital it will go further and further into the programme. The four high schools that were built here are now in these moved, they started working, and these funds in the budget that stand are for equipment and the rest of what is needed.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1590	Thank you. No discussion from the bench, except for a reported hearing. We will now continue with the application form of Mr Rajko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1591	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. For the past few months, five months we can watch with three stages, 10 and 11 of the campaign, all three phases have their numbers. The campaign with its figures, for example the formula 3 times 7.7% of GDP growth, 7% more investment in human health. The second phase is the phase of the constitution of the government, the 12th and 11th months and the figures change accordingly. On January 12th, therefore, a programme of the government was adopted not full 40 days ago and I quote: "Investment in health is at stake in the future of the state, demographic recovery and all progress of the state.", finished quote and that's correct. Investment in health is a fundamental investment strategy of every country in the world, so there should be a Croatian state, but as things stand in phase three today, when we have a state budget ahead of us. The state budget grows 4.3, in culture 7, in science, education 8.6. With the same professional and scientific method prepared by the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the budget of the Ministry of Health is 0.4% lower at the position of 100 and HZZO at the position of 115 lower 4.3%. HZO lower 4.3% as much as the state budget is growing. It's exactly the same. Position 115. Of course, the promoter, that the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Finance, is aware of that and of course the government is trying to reduce the damage, and in its explanation on page 278, I quote: "If we exempt those funds from 2007 then the funds for 2008 were higher by 4.06%. In addition, the final plan for 2007 was 18 billion 880 million, and when out of that amount, 1.2 billion kuna is then the proposal for a 2008 plan is bigger for," I like the word "all 2.15%."", finished quote, page 278 arguments. And that's legitimate. The government is aware, the government is trying to find an explanation, but the figures are inexorable. Position 100 minus 0.4%, HZZO position 115 minus 4.3%. Of course, back on January 12th, 11th and 12th, I'm going back to the government's adopted programme. I return to the basic quote: "Investment in health is the future of the state, demographic recovery and all the progress of the state.", finished quote. The logical, identical, professional and scientific interpretation of the proposed quote and the adopted programme of the Government of Croatia for the next four years follows the conclusion does not invest much in the future, does not invest much in the future of the state and all progress of the state, of course my interpretation is exactly the same as I did. So where can it be saved? Where is it intended to be saved according to the proposed budget? I hope the budget for the Ministry of Health won't be adopted like this. So where are the intentions? In medicine you can save in two places. In the diagnosis of the disease or in therapy, the treatment of the disease. And really amazing. In position 14, 15. Recipe medicines minus 2.0%. Medicinal products to be prescribed. And in position 69 064 something that's significant and what we've done together in the previous two government fund expensive drug index is amazing, 34.6%. That's what I was talking about yesterday on our Health Committee, so I checked in here an hour ago today. I thought there might have been a mistake in the meantime, that it's impossible that the Expensive Medicines Fund is smaller by 34.6%. Either we've cured all the patients we haven't, I've also checked it now at the Croatian Institute of Public Health or it's intended to save what to me as a doctor, as a person, as a parliamentary representative is completely illogical. It's completely illogical. Further to the state budget at position 12 92 of the information programme. Last year, health system information 32 million. This year drastically reduced to 4.7. Today is February 27, 2008, 21st century, 3rd millennium we all have cell phones, i-pods. I saw some MPs have an i-phone. We all have laptops. Only the health care of Mr. Minister remained in paper technology. It's just health care, you're a promoter, you're left in paper technology. And now the budget is shrinking at a time when communication has allowed us to take advantage of his graces. It's amazing that health care information may have been reduced from 32 to 4.7. Of course the numbers are inexorable. The state budget is growing 4.3%. HZZO position is down 4.3%. Position 115, position of the Ministry of Health, position 100 falls 0.4%. These are all arguments why we will clearly vote against the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1592	I thank Mr. Representative. This, on this exhibit, we have two reported corrections to an incorrect quote. He's the first of Mr. Andri Hebrang's respected representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1593	... He kept repeating the wrong data even though we explained it nicely to him yesterday on the Health Committee. [[The speaker was subsequently turned on.]] So I quote an incorrect statement: "The budget for healthcare is lower than in 2007. "It is not true. Health budget by 4.06%. If you compare the budget planned in 2007 with the budget planned in 2008. The execution of 2007 is something else because the Ministry of Finance has recovered some of the debts and so on. But that is not compared to pears and apples, but pears and pears or apples, apples. Other expensive drugs, index smaller by 36%. It is not a smaller index than expensive medicines will be calculated differently. We also said that yesterday on the Committee on Health, Labour and Social Policy. One piece will be carried from the hospital's limit. The same means of information, I quote, have been reduced. That's not true. The funds are not reduced but a large part of primary health care has been informed over the past 4 years and...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1594	Much less need for funds. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you. The second is the correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected representative of Mr. Nedeljko Strikic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1595	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's the esteemed representative Ostojić is presenting what Mr. Hebrang said incorrectly. I'll just say for information. You'd have to know a lot, you were also the prime minister that the primary health care information was complete, at the 4th month of this year will be complete. And also you work at the clinical center of the hospital, I'll say like a carlovica, we're fully informed. Pula hospital's been informed. A lot of patients. Depends on who wants to be informed. So it's not true that we stayed in the paperwork and only used the papers. Indeed, do not spread deplaced information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1596	Thank you very much. We are continuing the debate of the distinguished representative Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1597	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I belong to those who absolutely did not expect anything from the coalition agreement. Even less than the government's work programme during the term of office, and I must admit that I didn't expect too much from the budget either. And unfortunately, that old folk came true when you don't expect anything or get it. However, it is certainly a very interesting document. This document represents the sea of evidence that the current government absolutely does not have any adequate response or solution to the burning problems of Croatian society. This document shows, among other things, that all the agreements, the negotiations, the talks of the allegedly programming type were actually just political pressures. Because the budget doesn't even predict what it was, which was allegedly the subject of a coalition agreement. The solutions offered by this budget show an almost incredible refusal to catch up with the real problems of Croatian society. In other words, in addition to the very serious structural problems that Croatian society today has and whose consequences citizens feel daily through the savagery of prices, through slavery, through the debt slavery of citizens, by stopping production and exporting with this budget, the government simply closes its eyes as if there were no problems. What has changed in the government's macroeconomic policy through this budget, and what answers through this budget has the Government given to these problems? If we eliminate from the budget what is necessary for the functioning of the state "per se" what remains? How did my predecessor, Ostojić, a colleague of Ostojić, say or wonder, and I wonder what is, for example, the budgetary response to the catastrophic state of health? In the next year, which will resolve debts in the healthcare system, which have long exceeded 4 billion kuna, payments within the system are over 180 days. And the layman, to be brief, understands that this poses a major threat to the sustainability of the health system. In a society where health care is sick, and ours indeed is, it seems to me that it will also become healthy. In the segment so pompously announced developments, for example in the railway infrastructure, from the great story of the construction of the two-way flat line Rijeka-Zagreb in the budget remained only a big story. From the entire project that was to be implemented quickly, focusedly, we intensely pulled the story to 7 and 9 years, respectively. And we will wait for the new 5 years until the end of the expansion of the capacity of the Rijeka port. So I wonder, gentlemen, is anyone in the ruling furniture aware of what a network of roads around Croatia will look like in those nine years? I predict that not only as the city of Rijeka, not as the Primorje-Gorski County, but as Croatia as a whole, we will become the appendix of these traffic routes. So in 2012, Europe will be cross-netted by trains that will drive 350 km/h, and we will build 45km of railways. If it wasn't tragic, it'd be funny. I respect that the Most Kopno-Peljesac project is an important infrastructure project. But I'm sad that Mr. Calmett is concerned that we have to show our passports in Neum, but he doesn't care, and he doesn't think about how, for example. Railway system Istria integrate into the Croatian rail system. It would be good if this government had said what project of global importance will I repeat globally begin and end? I think the Croatian citizens expected an answer to that question. The optimist may think it's an airport development project, but the optimist is wrong because he's not. Gentlemen from the government remains unclear that Croatia cannot develop its transport problems in its function as tourism without the concept of developing regional airports. And we don't see in the budget what regional airport development policy is, and we should. And not just that. We should see in Mr. Calmeta's budget, but that's not there. But there's something else. In the budget of his ministry we find funding for the sports and recreational center "Višnja" in Zadar. There's probably a hall in the middle of some kind of road. I don't know how to explain it differently. The most dramatic situation is in the economy no matter what they think and talk about. The budget in its paragraphs does not foresee the completion of those jobs that the government started four years ago either in law-making or in the implementation of these same laws. For example. The Regional Development Act as one of the fundamental laws on which all development policies should be relied on incentivising small entrepreneurship, casterisation, raising technical and technological levels, etc., anything related to new development and then new employment. That's not in this budget. Mr. Shuker's gone. However, I wanted to comment on his call today, quite likable to join forces in the interest of Croatian citizens. It's about pure demagogy, which wants responsibility for the lack of concepts of resolving shipbuilding problems specifically, to be transferred to someone else. Switch to opposition because it sounds so good. But responsible policy is a policy of solving problems, not of transferring and socializing responsibilities. And by no magic or spilling from the vault into the vault and no argument is that something is in another position these shortcomings cannot be defended. We are witnessing that even before the budget was passed in the last few months, the ministries have competed to spend money buying a new fleet. Such and similar items through new equipment, the new offices have almost all positions, all the ministries of this country. So when we hear on one side a prime minister appeal to fight inflation and reduce general spending and you see what the budget says, then you can rightly ask yourself whether this is the budget of the Croatian State or whether this is the Swiss Confederation's budget. Although we're certainly better at one than the Swiss, and that's a rolling stock. And I'd say even if the budget was based on the matrix of a strange beak. On the one hand, when it suits us, we point out problems mainly for political discipline, primarily unions. And then when we have a chance to make strategic and development of the steps that we can show through the budget, then head into the water like we don't have any problems. In the end, it is perfectly clear to me that it is the right of the ruling to bring in this kind of budget, the budget that they want. It is their right to outright spite and reject any amendments that we will submit as a club on the draft budget. It is, of course, their responsibility for all the consequences that will come out of this budget. But unfortunately, the consequences of such a budget will not only be borne by the ruling but will primarily be borne by both the guilty and the debtors of the Republic of Croatia. They did vote, but their choice certainly wasn't this and this budget. That's why, of course, I won't support him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1598	I thank Mrs. Representatives. Like this. We have three corrections of an incorrect quote and one replica. First of all, the correction of the incorrect allegations and Mr. Representative Andri Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1599	Thank you very much. My colleague said incorrectly, health debts exceeded 4 billion kunas a long time ago. Health obligations are a billion and a half kuna, not 4 billion. And that's the lowest commitment rate since we've been following the finances of Croatian health care. And by the end of last year HZZO had at one point even the obligation of zero. So one and a half, not four billion. So much so they wouldn't scare the drug suppliers so they wouldn't stop supplying them. Second. It's not true what you said, I quote: "...health care is sick..." because we are in 20 places worldwide, in 20 places among 200 countries of the world, at the availability of health care and only for $350 per year per capita. There's really no such thing anywhere in the world. And the third is incorrect, I quote, government gentlemen, it is not clear that Croatia cannot develop tourism without regional airports. Gentlemen, it is clear from the government, and that is why they are heading towards the development of a large regional airport in Velika Gorica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1600	Thank you very much. The following is the correction of the incorrect allegations by Mr. Representative Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1601	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I must say that there is an incorrect allegation of an esteemed colleague that there is nothing visible in the budget in the regional development portfolio. I don't think it fits the truth because in fact we can actually see everything in that vault that's foreseen by it, which is that through the Regional Development Programme, we actually have a projected infrastructure development, primarily transport, water supply, and everything that clearly supports balanced development, and that is particularly indicative of the development of small places like what I come from, and not like you from Rijeka, but it doesn't matter, but I understand you anyway. Now you're laying down whether you've passed your homework or not. What I want to tell you more is that it is clear that not only will these projects through regional development encourage this balance but they are also capital in the construction of educational, judicial and.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1602	Thank you. Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1603	There's something that's true... [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1604	Thank you. In the third correction, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst's incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1605	Thank you. A colleague said the political discipline of the union was by the government, which is an incorrect allegation because the time had passed when the SDP was recruiting 10% of the union's personnel in its coalition government and said it itself played an important role in the current organisation of the Union of Independent Unions protest. So, maybe you got the wrong side of it. And I mean, you know, try to expect more, so you'll get more.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1606	Thank you, although it seems to me that this correction of an incorrect quote has not been limited to a correction of the quote but rather beyond that. ... That was an allegation. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We also have a replica, Mr. Agent Luke Denon.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1607	The colleague rightly found that the budget did not recognise the necessary reforms that are important for the EU's adaptation and that I have stressed before, we do not know when we will start with the reforms. If we are talking about a major reform that we should have made and it is called shipbuilding then in these four years, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has done that by shipyards, I will not say that the Government does not know because and I allow it not to know but they have therefore used all possible domestic consultants, the sides that we have paid and who have been in shipyards and who have brought some books and some plans to do with this shipbuilding. All of this resulted in the fact that, I quote, the restructuring plans of 6 Croatian shipyards are not good and must be updated because it is the assessment of the Competition Protection Agency because these plans are not economically sustainable because they do not guarantee profitable business after restructuring. I ask how our negotiators will get a more favourable status for our shipbuilding if one such reform, one such important restructuring in a system where 20 thousand direct employees and even so indirectly through small and medium enterprises, that they don't know what their destiny is, in which direction we're going to privatise them, whether we're going to unite them, whether we're going to sell them or what we're going to do with them. This speaks of the insecurity of citizens in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1608	Thank you very much. We're continuing an individual debate. The 30th is Mr. Representative Zeljko Turk.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1609	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues of officials, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. I promise the chairman right away at the beginning that I will not use words of debt slavery or prostitution or similar terms and that you yourself have commented as positive, so I will say the following. Certainly, voting on the new budget is a document that is a Croatian government programme, it is clear to everyone, for which someone bears political responsibility, and that is the Croatian Government, so those who rule. It is certainly evident from this and its strategic thinking in the conditions in which it operates today, and also from this is the direction of the movement of the state in the time ahead, it is certainly a term of four years and, above all, a period of one year and a topic of this current budget. It is natural that everyone is serious and when it comes to the budget of a country as small as ours and such a sensitive environment takes into account this external environment because we do not live and work under a glass bell but we are an integral part of international relations where above all we have learned about it and in primary school is the price of basic energys and there is oil one of the essential segments and elements of development, that is also an extremely large disturbance on the financial market, especially the international financial market with a sensitive issue and the rise in the price of agricultural products as well. And these are all the elements that have a significant impact on budget formation this year. All this confirms that caution is more than necessary and therefore I really welcome the expenditure side of the government's proposal, which from the 2007 plan of 13.8 billion increase in expenditures this year was put on the proposal to 6.6. A conscious position of interest rate weight in the time followed by the Government has timed out possible movements and thus has a maximum positive impact on further reduction of government debt. If you consider the segment itself, which refers to the revenues of the state budget, that the primary surplus is realised if we consider outside of those 5 billion interest and I think it's worth saying hello. Of course, last year we had very high-quality GDP, a reduction in unemployment, and the fact is that for a year back there were 38 000 people more at the Employment Office. It's an unfathomable fact that we can talk about in one way or another, and the facts speak. Certainly, and I want to say a few sentences and someone has said handsomely that both the formation of the Parliament and the debate on the budget could have been before. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, it could have been sooner, but it obviously took us or some of us more time to count the votes after the count, so that we could all seriously start working on the key budgets this year. And I don't think there's much to be doubted about. I will also say that here today as Parliament's representative here for the first time, I am taking the floor in the debate, but the mayor of a young perspective city in development that, together with our communals, we have found ourselves in defenceless grapes in 12 months, offered sudden proposals of the price of municipal services primarily from some major units of local self-government, thus asking ourselves what is going on and whether there are objective reasons and whether we can in time, and I will remind you and us that this is the time of the government's technical functioning until the new one has been formed and today I know the answer to this question and it is convenient to mention it at this moment when we are discussing this budget and when we talk about the elements of possible generation of inflation and I think that the good part of my colleagues working in the executive government can confirm these thoughts. Certainly, this creates an artificial atmosphere towards inflation in this year and a negative trend and approach exactly in the next budget proposal. But what I've said as an international environment and what's happening to us is part of our reality that is here right now behind us. I will now try to look at with a few words exactly what is a fundamental prerequisite for overall development, and for economic development, one segment relating to it, which is the development of a small economy and entrepreneurship which, in the developed part of Europe, generator and engine of development, and therefore I welcome 1.8 billion of the money that goes into the development of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, which makes it an increase of 25% and I am not just saying the findings for the sake of it, but those funds that the state has allocated for further development of entrepreneurship are an integral part. And when it comes to investment, that means something else. This is the formation of quality spatial-planned conditions, and I will remind us of adopted spatial plans or prior to adoption at the time of the term of office of this government which has several hundred, 200 or 300 in or before adoption, and I will remind us of something else and that is certainly the obligation to resolve quality property-legal relations and to obtain the preconditions for solving property-legal relations which together with how the capital of investors, state money creates preconditions for precisely quality development in the time to come. So it's an institutional framework that gives the foundation, and then together I'm an investor. But here I will actually say what is also important to local administrations and self-government both at local level and those at their overall positive or less positive approach make a further or better quality contribution to this overall development. With this in mind certainly that it is quality that the resources from the different resistors are in this common goal... the preconditions for the economy to develop as well as possible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not to mention under these new terms of employment and all the funds for requalification on the one hand. On the other hand, providing opportunities for young people as well as those of working age to find their place within a working-age population, and when we talk about a further segment of employment reduction. Certainly and here I will no longer take up time and take up your time related to promotions in education and information. But it all does what we all do together, regardless of which political option we belong or which sign we enter. I think that all of us are destined for a better life for all of us, and in the context of this overall and better development of the Croatian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1610	I thank Mr. Representative Turk. Mr Dragutin Lesar came forward to correct the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1611	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. If I understand correctly, he's the mayor of a young town. I have checked for 13 years about how much status this city has, and it would be very good if after 13 years of the town of Zapresic for another 3 years, plus that since the local administration and self-government have been abolished in Croatia. Because it's the same as telling you to present wood iron at least in Parliament to use something that Croatia doesn't have. Croatia has state administration and local regional or regional self-government. When there's something management it's a state, when it's local regional, it's self-government. And by repeating this huge mistake, local administration and self-government are constantly associated with the period until 2001 when part of the regional self-government had part of state authority. But I expect the leaders of local self-government to know that at least.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1612	Thank you very much. This was an educational correction of an incorrect allegation, which was an incorrect allegation. We are now continuing with the next registered debate officer, Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1613	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs, Your Honor, Mr. Minister. As my colleagues and colleagues from the SDP have already highlighted the draft budget that comes before us from the government's method and way of working in the past term, and the coalition agreement that the current government of Ivo Sanader has shown that there is neither vision nor knowledge to ensure greater quality of life for Croatian citizens, and this could be done first by increasing wages, by real wage increases and pensions. Unfortunately, in this budget as well as in the coalition agreement, we do not see that the government has a solution to real wage growth. Of course, higher wages would allow for higher severances, for example. for health care. Budget items for 2008 intended to preserve and improve health, prevent and treat diseases are additional confirmation that the HDZ lacks vision, idea, knowledge, how to implement health reform rather than endanger the right of patients. So the budget in general is growing nominally, wages and pensions are falling, unemployment is growing, and the economy is stagnating. What does that mean for Croatian health care? This means that in this year, our citizens will be able to buy much less for wages and pensions and will live worse, at the same time having even less available and less quality health care. So the budget in general is growing, and the health care sector is getting less, so I wonder what is the budget of a colleague and a colleague, who, by a restrictive attitude towards health protection, is jeopardising not only the present but also the future of his citizens. So I'm not going to compete now with whether the health budget is smaller than the plan, whether it's bigger than what was planned in 2006. The fact that it is smaller than what was invested in healthcare in 2007 is the most important message regarding the health budget. Many examples confirm that the promise under the coalition agreement was just a mere wish without real ambition to make those promises come true, so allow just a few examples. It noted in the coalition agreement that special attention will be paid to improving emergency medical work in the coming period. I guess that's why, under the improvement sentence, it's supposed to be professionally improved less than in 2007, and they were miserable back then. So 195,000 kunas were spent for professional training of emergency care workers last year, and 165 thousand kunas were planned for 2008. It is amazing that funds are being reduced to improve the transplant program by almost 10% or 17% depending on which position you are looking at, e.g. even a 36% reduction is foreseen at the hospital transplant position. Despite the announcement of promotion of island medicine and somewhere increasing funds for island medicine, the means for professional training of people working on islands are reduced by 12% and the comparisons are only 132,000. At the same time, a pharmaceutical inspection for professional employee training is provided for 141 thousand kuna, and as far as I know in Croatia there is only one pharmaceutical inspector. What else can he do, it's a different story. Another absurd. As in many parts of the world, cardiovascular diseases in Croatia are also leading to improvement and mortality. Well, my people, the almost revolutionary shift in the reduction of that rate, made intervention cardiology possible. However, the 2008 budget envisions 25% less funding than was achieved in 2007. And for the end, I left in this part of my discussion a fund of expensive drugs. If something was done well, it was a fund of expensive drugs precisely for the reason that hebrang states that there might be a new solution, that these funds would be within the limit of hospitals, and that is why the expensive medicines fund was formed because these hospital restrictions did not allow patients to be treated with these expensive medicines. And then last year, which for every commendation, 306 million kuna was spent, at the end of the year, the current Minister Ljubicic promised at expert society meetings that new diagnosiss would also be included in this fund, which means that by reducing 106 million kuna, it will absolutely not be possible to achieve the rights of patients looking for these expensive medicines, and in vain preventive programs, in vain, effective diagnostics if these people who are diagnosed with a particular disease need expensive medicines that can't be obtained. Let me look back on one word to call it a local problem, but it's actually a state problem, and that's the Rijeka Clinical Hospital Center. The funds provided for business facilities, which means construction and medical-laboratory equipment of the Rijeka Clinical Hospital Centre, which is the second most important hospital institution in the Republic of Croatia is 43 million kuna. However, we already know that the works were agreed for 2008 in the project of installing a new University Hospital in Rijeka of 85 million kuna. So these funds are absolutely insufficient and they show once again that the government was serious at the end of last year when it said that Rijeka and Rijeka would get their new KBC in 2020. I think this is inadmissible and that this way of ignoring the needs of the Primorje-Gorski, Istria and Lika-Senj County that all are gravitating towards the Clinical Hospital Centre of Rijeka deserves to be changed in this budget. What I must also point out is that although the city of Rijeka has no formal obligation to set aside for the medical equipment of the Clinical Hospital Centre, it provided a million and 500 thousand kuna for 2008. A million and 500 thousand kuna, and the state budget predicted 377 thousand kuna. For these money, two monitors can be purchased for an intensive treatment unit and almost nothing more could be obtained in 2008. This proposal is so I would dare say sad, tragic and offensive to all those employed at the Clinical Hospital Center, but also to the sick people who are being treated in it. We at the SDP Club have prepared amendments related to the Rijeka Clinical Hospital Centre and here is the Honorable Minister Shuker called for a consensus on health reform, so I call for a consensus on the future of building the Rijeka Clinical Hospital Centre and I call on you to support the amendments prepared by the SDP. Finally, several more examples of a non-serious approach to implementation in this budget. Only two hundred thousand kunas were planned to implement the privatisation of state-owned enterprises, which is not enough to study the privatisation of one of these state-owned companies. In order to establish local and regional agencies, only two hundred thousand kunas are also planned, and this is not even a drop in the sea, given the high need for the formation of new, financing of existing development agencies specifically related to the European Union funds. 12 million and 900 thousand kuna are planned for modernization, restoration and construction of fishing ports in the light of ZERP. It may seem a lot, but this is insufficient, and an example of the experience of fishing port and fish wholesalers in Rijeka shows that these funds are insufficient and unserious. Finally, a final example of the air traffic strategy was planned for a million and 200 thousand kuna. This is again inconclusive in view of the threat and safety of air traffic, given the strategies in the drawers unopened, since the airport of Rijeka is being completely ignored. Here, I could still count. However, time has passed, so I won't burden you. We Assembly representatives here are chosen by the will of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and it is our mandate to ensure all of them a better quality of life regardless of which foreigners they belong, no matter what part of Croatia they live in. I call upon you to read the amendments, read them with reason, not with the thinking of which strangers you belong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1614	Thank you, Mr. Representative. A correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Nedjeljko Strikic, has been reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1615	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, the esteemed colleague, Jovanovic, has indeed brought forth a series of incorrect data. I'll only quote one. "There is no prevention of disease in the Republic of Croatia." Well, dear fellow, have you lived outside for the last few years? The biggest action that was, early discovery of breast cancer is still under way. In the 11th month of last year, an early detection and prevention of colon cancer began. I think you still live in Croatia, that you were and could read it if you weren't medically educated, I don't know what you're doing. Emergency medical reform is under way. And you should know, I don't know where you work, that training employees goes from the budgets of an institution. So it's the institution that perfects the personnel and the state through HZZO pays into the budget of these institutions so that the personnel can perfect themselves. I think it's perfectly clear to you, too, just talking for other reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1616	Thank you very much. The following is reported for the debate, Mr. Representative Josip Djakic, but I do not see him in the assembly, so Article 211(4) loses his right to speak on this subject. And we move on to the next registered representative, that's Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1617	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The Croats in Australia and New Zealand went to sleep. These in America and Canada are still working, so these dozen who look at us via satellite and Internet are a nice greeting. I am aware of the risk of my personal discussion, on my own behalf, that, after my debate, Minister Schuker comes to the pay phone and starts to mention my pseudonym which I have used or used, as I have done to my colleague Beusun, I have to admit unusually so far in the last four and a little bit more years as I am in Parliament, but there is still something I will say about the proposed state budget as long as time allows me. The gross social product according to government budget documents is planning to grow in the next year from 4.5, although today the prime minister said from 4 to 4.5, so he reduced expectations of what he writes in the budget's reasoning. And in the budget's explanation, it also says that for 2007. The government expects GDP growth to be 6%, as excellent results in the first three parts of the year have ruined the last quarter. And we kept warning that it was not good to discuss GDP based on one quarter or two, but to wait or wait for a whole year and then see what would happen. Inflation was planned with 5.2% this year. So every item in the state budget of expenditure, wages and material income of citizens below 5.2 increases is actually nominal growth but is also a real decline. If they're lower, if they're 5.2, then it's stagnation. And only above 5.2 do we come to real growth. It also says that industrial production grew by 5.6% in 2007. I trust that information. But it also says that electricity consumption, gas and water consumption, so electricity, gas and water grew by 1.3%. Now, I've known a little bit in the economy since long ago. What industrial branch increases production by 5.6% if electricity, gas and water consumption increases by 1.3%? What is this activity that is increasing with energy consumption 1.3 and its effect is 5.6 at the end of the year? Either the prices of this industrial production or something else happened with the price of electricity, gas and water energy, because the shareholders say that the start or data of the consumption of electricity, gas and water can immediately see what is happening in the economy of a country. It grows, falls or stagniates. The wrong reasons, that is, that is, that we suddenly expect the growth of the gross social product to be less than 4.5 so 4 to 4.5 and say this: the environment, the drought, the stock market, it was written in an explanation, and today it is said to be the growth of the world population. The growth of the world's population, I guess, the number of inhabitants. I've identified this environment. I looked on the Internet and I found the afternoon. And I'm sure I'm right that raising the price of pineapples in Vietnam of 250% has had an important impact on price developments in Croatia. However, I did not understand this growth in the world population until the end, that it is possible that in one calendar year population growth has increased so much that it has compromised the macroeconomic stability of the Republic of Croatia. And we're a really weird country. When macroeconomic data is good, that's why the government is responsible no matter who's in power. When the data is poor, when inflation is higher than planned, when it exceeds 2.6%, when the growth of gross social product will be no more than 6, but less than 4.5, then it's a false environment like the pineapples of Vietnam and the growth of the world population. I always thought that behind the good and the bad things were the ones who were in power. The foreign debt of the Republic of Croatia according to data from the budget explanation is 32.3 billion euros, if I have added it well. In 2003 he was, at the end of 2003. 19.7 billion euros and 2000. 10 billion. So from 2003 to the end of 2003 from 10 to 19,7 from the end of 2003 to today 19,7 to 32,3 billion. And it is planned that this year we go with a new debt of 10.5 billion kuna, of which 8.1 is the repayment of old debts, and 2.4 billion kunas of new debts. And as much as it was interpreted in 2003 that in the total debt that the state has to distinguish the debt of the central state, the banks, the economy and the citizens, it was then postulated as heresy and it was claimed to be only relevant in the total debt. Today, it is said that it is important that the share of the country in total and on-demand decreases greatly. So what changed in the system in the Republic of Croatia was that at the time there was a irrelevant debt structure, and today it is a very important structure of debt, and we stress that the share of the state in gross social debt, and the debt is falling, but someone's growth is growing. The effects of decentralisation in 2007 are evident by comparing data on income tax revenues achieved and planned, which in 2006 was 3.4 billion in favour of the state, and in this year 1.9. The profit tax of 5 billion comes to 9.6 billion, or it's a net profit in favour of the state of 3.1 billion. That's the data. Whether he carries good connotations or not at this point does not matter, but it is important that local and regional self-government has achieved less income... more, some the same, some less. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Local self-government units and regional self-government projects can be owed up to 35% of their budget revenues, which is very good, Mr. Minister, but the follow-up is now going, but budget revenues do not account for the revenues of local and regional self-government with an increased share in income tax and decentralised functions. I'm asking why? If a public-private partnership programme is going to build a school, hospital, infirmary or welfare centre which is a decentralised function and is an obligation of the municipality, or the county to finance it, why income from an increased share of income tax and decentralised functions from that title are not the basis for calculating the right to be in charge, because we are not talking about the duty outside of that criterion, outside of those obligations and the powers that the county or cities that have taken over and the school system have. The Croatian Privatisation Fund has been said to be abolished, but we have a financial plan for this year as well. So he stays. A little weird, after all the modifications we've heard in public about him, he stays. Don't lose sight, don't lose capital, don't lose assets. Stock reserves, 24 million kuna for purchase, for goods in stock reserves at the same time the state plans to make revenue of 4.8 million kuna by selling strategic reserves. So, the plan is for the state to spend 19.2 million dollars this year getting new goods. Mr. Shucker, on the balance sheet of the strategic stock reserves, how long did it take this year to get goods for stock reserves, strategic and supply supplies? 208 million if I'm not wrong on an annual basis. Here is the 24-cost plan, 4.8 revenue from the sale of old goods. So, only 19 million on the burden of the state. And I'm done with HEP. On this side of the assembly there was applause after the mention of the Lesca hydropower plant. According to the 2004 HEP administration programme, construction or construction of buildings for the production of electricity of a thousand 54 was to be built or started.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1618	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1619	If you give me another half minute, I'll withdraw the five-minute application and save time, Mr. President. Here. Is it correct? So it was planned to start or finish building buildings of thousands of 54 megawatts. The ladders are 40 megawatts, 40 to one thousand 54, and you say it's a great success. Why are we importing electricity from Kosovo and Bosnia and Herzegovina at the double price we sell on the domestic market?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1620	Thank you very much. It's Madam Representative Nadica Jelash's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1621	The Honorable President, the Minister, the esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs. For this budget that was on our benches today, it was also said that it was conservative and that it was affirmative and that it was aggressive, and even that it was used. What I'm going to say is that this budget can't be developmental, because economic growth of 4.5% with a 5.2% inflation does not provide development, but at best only status quo. So I'm going to say that this is the budget of holding on to the existing state. At the award of the "Golden Kuna" of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce on Monday, the prime minister acknowledged that these are slightly lower rates than those promised, but that they are still more than those in the European environment. Such as under quotes "argumentation" is totally unacceptable because it should always be based on growth, so an absolute level of development, because 1% of economic growth in the European Union brings far more euros than it does, for example. and 5, 6 or 7 percentage growth in Croatia. We are too lagging behind Europe to afford ourselves a low rate of economic growth. If the budget is a fundamental instrument for achieving the party or coalition in power, which it certainly is, then the 2008 budget should first and foremost be a decentralisation budget, because if anything was common to almost all parties in the election programmes in the previous parliamentary elections, then it was a need for decentralisation. At decentralisation, we could say, a political consensus was actually reached. Why is decentralisation so important? Because Croatia is indeed a highly centralised country and I will now support it with a series of data. In Zagreb at this time and in the ring around it, therefore in Zagreb County there is almost 40% of all Croatian entrepreneurs who employ 44% of the total number of employees in the Croatian economy and have 62% of the total entrepreneurial property. With this and such entrepreneurial property and therefore with these entrepreneurial resources Zagreb and Zagreb County earn 57% of total income and over 60% of profits after taxing the Croatian economy as a whole. Entrepreneurs of the City of Zagreb and Zagreb County achieve 45% of Croatian exports. In Zagreb there is 45% of the total number of banks, we have 33% and 62% of the underlying capital of banks. Therefore, all relevant data confirm the strong domination of Zagreb and the concentration of the company, banking and financial capital, intellectual and human capital, which is also supported by a strong concentration of political and diplomatic and business power. According to the latest data from the State Statistics Institute on the level of gross domestic product per capita per county, only three Croatian counties have a larger gross domestic product than the Croatian average of over 7,000 euros for 2005. It is the city of Zagreb, Istria County and the Primorje-Gorski County. In this regard, the gross domestic product of the city of Zagreb, amounting to nearly 13 thousand kuna, is even 83% higher than the Croatian average, while the gross domestic product of Istria County, which amounts to slightly over 9,000 euros, is 30% higher and the gross domestic product of the Primorje-Gorski County is worth 8.3 thousand euros 19%. All other counties are below the national average with the lowest level of gross domestic product, so only 3,000 785 kuna per capita or 46.2% less than the Croatian average already mentioned in Brod-Posavina County. The citizens of Zagreb have an average of 3.4 times the gross domestic product of the citizens of Brod-Posavina County. A good indicator of the differences in the development of Croatian regions is the unemployment rate. For Croatia as a whole, it is 14.7%, but in Istria and the city of Zagreb it is only 6.3 and 6.5%, respectively, which is lower unemployment rates than in the European Union where it is 6.8%. On the other hand, the unemployment rate in Vukovar-Srijem County is as high as 28.4%. So it's four and a half times bigger than in Istria. Or another drastic example of regional differences. According to the Institute "Ivo Pilar" the highest rate of economic activity in Croatia has Međimurje. It is 63% while in Croatia that rate is 53%. At the same time, Međimurje has had the lowest salaries in the country for years and not just any lowest but 25% of the Croatian average. So, in Međimurje, the most work is done and the least money is made. It is clear that this situation is to a certain extent conditioned by an economic structure characterized by the still high representation of labour intensive activities, but Međimurje also has a significantly higher share of export revenues in the total income of the economy than the average of Croatia and far greater coverage of exports. It's even 92%. It is actually a data that is unreachable for Croatia because it has only about 47% somewhere. And that's why it's hard to deal with the fact that bigger salaries have even those counties that largely live on different forms of state-owned transport. Of course, I don't criticise the county that rely on state aid because it's certainly not their choice, they don't actually have a choice. And this lack of choice is a significant part of the consequences of the lack of a regional development strategy. When presenting the new or old government and the government programme, the prime minister said this in his address, I quote: "The balanced development of all parts of Croatia is a prerequisite for the stability of the country and the equal position of all its inhabitants.". We can't agree with this, with the SDP adding the following. Regional development is also a measure of democracy. In fact, a highly centralised state develops addictive mentality in undeveloped regions and allows central authorities to redistribute funds according to the criteria of political similarity. The developed countries of the European Union make 20 to 25% of public finances available to regional and local communities. Croatia is specific to many units of regional and local self-government. We know that we have 20 counties, so the city of Zagreb with the status of the county, another 127 towns and even 429 municipalities. All of these units have only 8% of total public revenues, and therefore Croatia is at the bottom of Europe. That she demonstrated her persuasion in the implementation of decentralisation, the new government also established a special ministry of regional development. However, only 2 billion kuna or 1.7% of the total budget were allocated to the ministry which should play a key role in the even development of Croatia in the draft budget. And judging by these figures, Croatia unfortunately remains a small country of major differences. Finally, what Međimurje expects from the 2008 budget and through the 2009 and 2010 projections, because this document, therefore, practically covers the mandate of the current government. In view of the still great importance of the textile and shoe industry in the overall Mediterranean economy, we expect more important assistance in the recovery of these activities, and if we see well the projected 5 million for the recovery and restructuring of industrial and economic operators is far too little. Another thing that Međimurje expects from the budget, given the relatively large share of the population living from agriculture, is more important aid for irrigation projects, rounding up agricultural properties and protecting water and soil through aid in the construction of the drain system. And thirdly, given the poor education structure of the population, we expect more state resources in building and equipping primary and secondary schools, or in monitoring the programme of the newly founded university. These are the three weakest points, i.e. three groups of the most important limiting factors in the faster economic development of Međimurje County and I have given some twenty amendments through the budget through which the expectations of the citizens of Međimurje County have been mentioned above and which I appeal to be respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1622	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate this agenda item. Mrs. Tanya Wrbat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1623	Thank you. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished counterparts and fellow MPs, respected representatives and representatives of the Croatian government. Today, in this long debate, we are analysing the draft budget for this year and the budget for one state represents its blood count, even from those items that are not in it can be seen to read many things. The proposal for the government's budget makes it clear, for example, that the planned economic growth is less than the real rate of inflation. It can be read that although the budget is nominally increasing wages and pensions are actually falling. Unemployment is growing, the economy is stagnating. But first of all, allow me a personal remark because I find this kind of budget proposal rarely to accept some more serious city or municipal council. I believe that such a proposal would be returned to further consideration because its items are indeed very general. This is especially true for the financial plans of Croatian highways and roads whose items, whose items are more than general. For example, in the Croatian Roads programme, we have an entry 103, which reads: "Investment in the state road by program and it amounts to a billion 147 million, 149 thousand and 800 kuna" and which roads, where, in what amount and when will they be built? When will they be built? Don't Croatian citizens have the right to know when and how their money will be spent? Or does this mean that by investing in, and building roads, they will bid and speculate with individual units of local administration, with its councilors, commissioners or mayors? The same is of course true for the construction of highways, highways, assistance in the construction of county roads, Croatian water programmes, forests and so on. Furthermore, this Budget Proposal reads that there are no reflections and visions on the long-term objectives that are to be achieved in our country's development. What are the strategic directions of Croatia's future development? I do not think it can be disputed that on the geopolitical map of Europe, Croatia is a well-represented maritime subject and should encourage the achievement of the maritime-adriatic orientation of the economic development of this country because the sea and the geographical and traffic position are our irreplaceable and unexhausted natural resource which has so far been underused and valorised. Here I mainly want to look back at the northern part of the Adriatic and Istria, the area from which I come. These areas have been systematically ignored by the central state despite what Prime Minister Sanader said in this assembly this morning. The Prime Minister and none of the U.S. cabinets live in the area. Hence, others may be more directed to talk about it. The areas are an extremely favourable geo-transport position and the intersections of important European land and seaways have affected that area's population has been identified for maritime and other economic activities since ancient times. However, national investment in Primorje and Istria is negligible mainly in the area of transport infrastructure, health care, social care and even education. But should we wonder why that is? I think we know the answer. These are environments where HDZ is not in power. Not in the county, not in the vast majority of local units. Someone may notice that these are the most developed environments in Croatia, and they are proud. But that doesn't mean that state money needs to be systematically bypassed. Istria and the Primorje-Goran County are engines of development throughout Croatia and could and would like to contribute much more to the overall development of "Beautiful Ours" but we should also invest in our infrastructure, in human resources, in health care and in tourism. Today in Istria, state roads are recognized by those roads, those that are in the worst condition. The Istrian "ipislon" except that it is dangerous and for its purpose is recorded in Istria the biggest increase in mortality on Croatian roads does not end anywhere because the state budget will not finance its accession to state and county roads. He literally ends up in a meadow in the middle of nowhere. Or let's take the Ucka tunnel. It's one of the most insecure, I mean, even the most insecure tunnel in Europe, but that's why 28 kunas should be paid in one direction. Maybe we should incriminate 28 of those same kunas for the fear of crossing the tunnel with our vehicle. It is no surprise, therefore, that a large number of citizens and citizens of Istria, for example, are coming to Zagreb via Slovenia. Istria is fully isolated from the rest of Croatia because Croatia has no vision or strategy for the even development of road, rail or traffic, or maritime transport. This also applies to the port of Rijeka, the port of Rijeka, which, compared to the northern Adriatic competitive ports of Kopro and Trieste, is significantly less connected to the road and railway networks and we see that from this budget proposal, this budget, if this is not to be adopted, will continue to change. There are no adequate approaches to the river port and various local roads for faster inclusion in European transport corridors. The solution to these issues is not only a local problem but it is affecting Croatia's vital interests as a maritime country. They exceed the opportunities of the two counties I speak of both their cities and municipalities, and they should be involved in the general policy and strategy of Croatia's maritime orientation. When we talk particularly about Istria, the priorities of road infrastructure construction are certainly a pulse bypass, a tax bypass, construction of the Labin-tunnel Učka highway. Continuing the construction of the "Istrian Ipsilon" to Medulin. Construction of an "ipislon" connection on local and county roads. And we know very well, it's been heard more than once today. Istria itself brings to the state budget more than one third of Croatia's revenues from tourism. The city of Poreč alone earns more from tourism than Sibenik-Kninska and Zadar County combined. But that's why he doesn't even have a fair bypass. But let's move on to health care and welfare. There's been talk today about a general Pula hospital that we know is cramping in debt. In addition, many investments are required so that citizens and citizens of Istria can be provided with full health care. But even with this budget, the citizens and citizens of Istria will not receive adequate medical care through the Constitution. The social care of older and powerless citizens in Istria is not on the list of priorities, as only one home for older and powerless municipalities in northern Istria is considered sufficient for the needs of the three cities and municipalities in northern Istria. The one in the town of Novigrad that's been waiting for more than two years for one bed. And when rich Istrian cities, under quotes of wealth, decide to build their own homes for the elderly and powerless, they cannot be put into networks, networked into the Croatian network of such homes. Or if they fit into a network of homes for the elderly and the powerless, then make a deal, they don't co-finance at all. So in the town of Poreč, we have a home that is in the system of homes for older and powerless and that doesn't get a single kuna from the state budget to co-finance 30 beds, but the citizens have to pay too much market price, and the home stares empty. Both countys I speak of have been deprived of more significant natural wealth than forests and water and have been able to exploit the sea and traffic-geographical position in their history, relying on the quite developed activities of the marine economy, shipbuilding, sea shipping, ports and tourism. However, the Primorje-goranska and Istria County in these past 17 years have been systematically and tendedly ignored by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and thus prevented their further development, development of their potential and strategic-comparative advantages. Since our once great successful and competitive companies like the former Digitron were robbed and destroyed during the famous privatisation and transition allow at least the coast and Istria to develop freely in a touristic sense. But that's why infrastructure is needed again. Priorities should be built on the development of large and local infrastructures in all forms of road, traffic, air, rail, energy and municipal infrastructure. I see I'm running out of time, and then I'm gonna go to school and say that it's a shame that the city of Umag, the city I come from, has no high school. But that's why he does.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1624	You're out of time, pal! Thank you very much. Mr. Boris Matkovic is correcting an incorrect allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1625	Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. It is an incorrect claim that you have stated that you have no insight into where a billion and 800 million kunas have been allocated that you claim to be. Obviously, the truth is something else, which is that you haven't read this material. Because it's nice in there that makes you think that these money's made based on the program. If you've ever worked in the city administration or somewhere, then you'd have to know that the budget isn't made without the program. That's one lie. The second is not to invest in Istria and that this government has left Istria. That doesn't suit the truth. And in the end, one piece of advice. His second commandment says: “Do not mention my name in vain! ”
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1626	Thank you very much. I advise we've just been halfway through. You can't. We've crossed half the list here. I suggest we refrain from unnecessary. It's a colleague of the third plate you've raised, so the third one is yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1627	Thank you for your happiness, President of the Parliament. So I want to say here I'm going to abuse Article 209 and say that my colleague was trying to deny me my right to speak in the Croatian Parliament, so I'm going to mention the name I want. Twice and as long as it takes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1628	Article 209 speaks of this without a replica. Article 209 also speaks of what a representative can, and not what, I don't know why you brought this up. But how better to let it be spoken than to discuss it, let's go over this fact. It's Mrs. Dubravka Shuica's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1629	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. Here today, listening to this debate all day, it's kind of like a rasmomon here in this House. If someone came in here right now and didn't know what the subject was, they'd think we were talking about two different documents. We on this side and you on the other side. You read in one way, we read in another way, and here, because the minister has returned and I actually want to turn the rhetoric in the other direction and congratulate the government and the minister who, within such a short time, managed to put this budget together. Why am I saying this? Because all of us who work in the local and regional administration and self-government know how difficult it is to make a budget, how difficult it is to balance the income and expenditure side, and that is why I am using this opportunity, given that before that time-limit on early financing, the budget on our benches came about. I use the occasion to say congratulations again. The wishes are great, the needs are great, it's not easy to meet the circumstances we've heard about both this morning and from our prime minister and the minister. We all know it's hard to reconcile both income and expenditure. However, it was obviously a success in our Ministry of Finance. We've often heard three words today. These were transparent budgets, social budgets and developmental. I want to say and agree with all these three findings. The fact is that it is transparent for the reasons that all expenditures and revenues are shown through programmes in which activities and projects are planned and in each organisational unit of the budget is fully visible as to what money is spent and what amount. When we talk about the social component, then I can say that the budget remains developed, and all the rights acquired are still there. So, all the pensions, all the rights of the defender, all the children's allowances and all the other rights of this social category, and when we talk about the development component, then I can say that the ministry justifiable the proposal that sent us in these little books gave us the title for the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. This budget encourages a stronger development of entrepreneurship, while continuing to invest in infrastructure facilities. In my opinion, the title for the competitiveness of the Croatian economy justify the fact that the increase in the planned funds and incentives for the economy and agriculture is significantly higher than the average growth of the budget. So, encouraging entrepreneurship by 26% more than last year, investing in agriculture and rural development is increasing by 32%, funds for regional development and capital investment are growing by as much as 67%. When this is summed up tourism has not been mentioned much. But tourism can expect an increase of 49%. True, they're not big funds, but the increase and the funds for information is up 23%. That this first budget of the new coalition government is realistic for me also confirms the fact that changes in Croatia and the world that were spoken about this morning and all day, directly affecting economic growth, have occurred in it. On the proposal, the macro-economicist budget was made with a projection of the real growth of the gross social product of 4.5% and not 6.1 as envisaged. The inflation of 5.2% is also foreseen, and this proves to me that the applicant was extremely realistic, that he was extremely responsible as was said this morning and perhaps cautious and also thrifty and that the budget proposal adapted to the new circumstances. I would also like to point out here that all available measures need to be taken to keep inflation on projected growth. The fact is that revenue from the budget has been shown realistically and continued to slow down state spending, which means fiscal consolidation continues in 2008. This also says the figures that last year in 2007, expenditures grew by 13.8 billion and in this 2008 were planned for only 6.6, which again points to responsibility and caution. I would just like to take a brief look at the budget relating to higher education and science. We've heard a lot about it today, but the numbers aren't bad again. 4 billion kuna more in the last four years, the minister said, and we repeat once again 7 thousand people employed, meaning improved standards in primary schools, all schools received teachers of information and other foreign language. The Bologna process is being implemented slowly, secondary school compulsory, transportation and everything this morning's talk was about. A thousand and 700 new scientific recruits, 10,000 scholarships, 400 million inherited commitments according to court rulings and settlements, and big plans around the university throughout Croatia, I am particularly talking about Dubrovnik University here. 100 million kuna for Dubrovnik University. You have to make sure when we talk about projects that money can't be singled out unless the projects are finished. If no urban plans are completed and no detailed plans are completed, you may have no idea how much money but you have no place to spend what was in our Dubrovnik case. So when circumstances have arisen, and so have a series of these amendments that we got on the bench here tonight, they all need to be backed up by project documentation and building permits to include the points if I get it all right. So I wouldn't want to be too long. The figures are unmistakable, 60,000 less unemployed, 120,000 new jobs, announcement of the release of contributions for new employees and a whole series of measures that this budget covered. As for infrastructure investments in southern Croatia or better said Dubrovnik-Neretva County I can say no matter what numbers may not show it now, I can say that I am satisfied that the highway is heading towards Dubrovnik, cannot come to Dubrovnik before it reaches Ploče. The bridge goes we believe in this project. Gasification goes, we know that Dubrovnik is difficult, Split will be reached, Dubrovnik given our geographical location we cannot expect something that is not realistic. The port of Gruz is building the truth with the EBRD loan, but the loan should be returned, it is a major infrastructure project and we simply know that we are, not that we are the last in government priorities, but that we are the last for reasons that infrastructure and projects so require. So there's just been a lot of talk here about not investing in infrastructure enough, but we know the legacy, we know the consequences, we could have had 50 years of highways like other European countries, we haven't had, and so I welcome the way this government is doing, which, in the end, this government has continued to work, the former government and this new government, and we believe that in this four-year period, we will succeed in realising these projects. And when it comes to decentralisation, we too are very much in favour of decentralisation on this side, it's all of us's interest, it's the goal, and we all call it, and we know it's a civilization achievement. However, it cannot happen overnight either, it is also about the transfer of powers and the transfer of responsibilities. But as I recall when we talked about the government's programme of work in the coalition agreement, we adopted here most of the votes, that in the next four years it will gradually reach 20% of the funds that will be allocated to the budgets of local, local and regional administrations and self-government. So I believe in this project, I believe in the government, and I believe that decentralisation will slowly, slowly happen in Croatia. Here, for now, that's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1630	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1631	Mr. President, correcting an incorrect quote to a respected colleague of Shuic's. We didn't agree anything here, but it was probably agreed at the coalition meetings of this new one, and here we haven't adopted any decentralisation in four years.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1632	Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1633	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Immediately at the beginning of the budget's interpretation this morning, Prime Minister Sanader, as some kind of apology for this kind of budget, admitted poor macroeconomic indicators in the country. The current government is always responsible for the macro-economics in each country, especially if the government is in power in its second term. However, Prime Minister Sanader accused the world population of inflation and of failing macroeconomic policy of monetary authority, or Governor Rohatinski. The fact that inflation in Croatia is influenced by the rise of the world's population and that is important, so much so that even the prime minister has to point out in explaining the budget, is an original thought and will likely be the basis for studying generations of economists in the future. I doubt they'll be able to deepen this deep thought because it touches the bottom, the very foundations of the macro-economics... They will only be able to repeat and repeat, without being able to add something new and thus fail to expand the boundaries of economic science to the extent that Prime Minister Sanader did this this morning. [[You don't understand.]] Prime Minister Sanader has accused the world's population, and Minister Sukera, meanwhile, accused the coalition government of high government spending more than five years ago. As soon after the election, when prices began to skyrocket and the standard of living collapsed, Prime Minister Sanader found the culprit in mayors who raise public service prices, thus destroying the standard of citizens. As we can see, the culprit is a lot. They are also the world population of Rohatinski and Racan and his ministers, and the mayors and mayors of municipalities, and only one, Prime Minister Sanader, is innocent. It is therefore the fault of those who have nothing to do with the poor macroeconomic situation, nor with this budget, and those who propose such a budget and who are the only one responsible for macroeconomic movements, frees themselves from any responsibility. If such excuses were to begin to be made by any prime minister of any country, to blame for inflation in the country for any mayor or president of a small rural municipality would have had a general mockery. He'd be ridiculed by economic experts, and analysts, and journalists, in fact, by the entire public. You gentlemen have inherited yourself in the position of power and your continued extraction of the government that came to power eight years ago, and from power came down more than five years ago they act not only shabby, but almost pathetic. This mantra you keep repeating may be good for sleeping in the positions you find yourself in, and it proves nothing but your own inability to deal with the problems that exist and to finally begin to solve them. In one word, you offer a little more than constant apologies for something you haven't done. To begin with, at least offer the truth. Before the election, you announced an economic growth of 7%. Now after the election, you plan it at 4 and a half percent. Before the election, you promised a better life for the retired. Now after the election, we see that the average pension fell to 38% of the average salary and was never lower. Six hundred thousand are those whose pension is less than two thousand kuna. These people have 66 kunas a day for life. So how do you live with 66 kuna a day? They were to be spoken of by Prime Minister Sanader, not by accusing the early government of an average pension of 44.6% of the average salary. Now she's down to 38. The pensioner could then simply buy more than he could buy today. It's a reality. That's the facts. Facts don't have to be defended. The facts defend themselves. But it's not just facts. It's not just numbers. It's unfortunately life. Every day, a miserable life, a painful life for all people. He's got a solution. Come on, take a tax on those who make millions on stock, and then help those who have 66 kunas a day with that money. But you won't. You openly say you won't do it. You protect the rich at the expense of the poor. You're like Alan Ford. They need to be taken to the poor because they are poor and little help anyway will not make them richer and give it to the rich to be even richer. It's your policy, Alan Ford. When it comes to local self - government, it is evident that the relationship with municipalities and cities is dependent on who acts there. That's not a cover-up. There's an open threat and blackmail. The HDZ chief secretary asks the councilors in Sinj to issue the will of their constituents, to be lowlifes without any honesty or morals, even without their stomachs and to change their uniforms and approach HDZ. He calls on them to bring HDZ to power against the elections and against the will of citizens to the elections in Sinj. And what does he offer in return? Money. Whose? Yours? No, I don't. HDZ? No, I don't. He's offering money to the state budget. He says if you don't, you won't get money for development programs. I'm going to test the truth of what I just said through amendments that I'm going to submit to Minister Shuker. It will concern those units of local self-government where HDZ is not in power, so let's see if the government is ready to help them, not just their HDZ municipalities. I'll only mention two of the items in the budget. I'll talk about one that exists and one that doesn't exist. There is an information item for the Parliament which is significantly smaller than last year's. The sum of the Parliament's information is therefore reduced, and we are here for discussion, for example. We're reporting in the most silly way possible. First we have to go down there in the hallway in that pile of applications find that application card we want to discuss on the agenda, and then we have to fill it out and carry that secretary to the table. It's like computers don't exist. It's like we couldn't do it all the easy way. Here's these screens. They are now blacked out without any function, as if on them right now I couldn't write, if nothing else, so at least schedules reported for discussion. It would make it easier for both MPs and journalists to monitor the work of the Parliament. No, that's not gonna happen. It won't be because the information funds have been reduced. And now for the item that isn't there. It's about the newspaper house Vesnik. The other day, we discussed a State Audit report here that found out what was going on at the Vesnik house. The government of the Vjesnik house has been very helpful or helpful in the years that the audit has been combed with 30 million kuna, and there the director's salary is 20 thousand kuna. Now, there's no "Walk" in the budget. I also asked Minister Shuker to help me find it, but he says he doesn't, so if you didn't find it then neither has the "Vjesnik" with his 7,000 copies sold and the 65% remittende has become profitable, so he's either holding himself back or he's still mostly funding from the budget as he's done so far, but that doesn't say anywhere in the budget. Well, now. If it's a hidden Vesnik, I wonder who knows what else is unproven, hidden, hidden? Because of what this budget says and because of what it doesn't say, I can't vote for that budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1634	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1635	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Stazić, as usual, burdened his speech with countless incorrect allegations, but I will correct a few. In fact, it is incorrect that HDZ's secretary-in-chief was giving money to eventually transfer someone from the SDP to HDZ. This is incorrect, so it was his or her state budget, etc. So that's completely incorrect. But let's just say, I'll remind you of a situation when your Home Secretary flew in from Zagreb quickly to try to convince and influence a DC man to move to the side of the SDP. So that's the truth, buddy. I corrected your inaccuracies that the chief secretary of the HDZ wanted to buy some SDP with the money. And as for the guys from Alan Ford, colleague Stazic, you're probably familiar with that Super Hick guy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1636	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1637	Article 209 may correct an incorrect assumption. I have here an agreement on the realisation of economic political interests for the city of Sinj which is...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1638	You can't...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1639	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1640	You can't...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1641	What I brought out here...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1642	Well, you can't...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1643	And you can't fix something that's true...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1644	You can't... My fellow Stazic! Please. You can't. We can't caricate the Rules of Procedure to that extent. You can't correct an incorrect allegation by incorrectly stating, the claim of an incorrect allegation. ... We can't determine through a breach of the Rules of Procedure, investigate an incorrect allegation. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You know that. This has already exceeded every measure now code, violation of the Rules of Procedure in this way. ... Well, don't be a colleague. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Huška Davor is a respected representative, a correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1645	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am correcting the incorrect allegations of Mr. MPs regarding the fact that the government is not helping municipalities and cities where HDZ is not in power. I only have one example. Here is no longer present Mr. Ronko, mayor of the city of Požega where HDZ is not in power, and the budget provides 25 million kuna for the gymnasium and hall in the town of Požega. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1646	Replica, the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1647	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm a friend of yours. You've said something that's a known fact and what's often been said to explain the increase in inflation. And the fact that it is quite common is that the prime minister and other members of the government have explained that some local self-government, or cities and municipalities, had a dominant impact on the inflation rate in Croatia last year. That's incorrect. The most affected the inflation rate was a 34% increase in food prices. Afterwards, clothing and footwear with 15%, and only the third in a row was the impact of the price of housing or utility services on which cities and municipalities can influence. So it is very clear that there is no point in saying that municipalities, cities, counties are to blame for what hit Croatian citizens today. But on the other hand, when we look at the same ratios in Europe, then we see where governments are effective, where they help their citizens. In Europe, for example, your impact on inflation prices, Mr. Stazic, is 20%. The inflation diet is 20%, and we have 35. So in Europe, countries, or their governments, assess what is important to citizens and where they can help them the most. As for Sinj. I agree that it is inadmissible and it is not correct that the secretary general of a political party goes around and uses other people's words in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1648	Replicate response, distinguished representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1649	Comrade Maras! The secretary general's not going around. He signs the Agreement on the realisation of economic political interests for the city of Sinj where it stands: First, the development of the economic zone Okuzovac. Secondly, the implementation of the waste disposal recovery project is off. Third, awarding a military service... The city of Sinju. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Fourthly, support from the government of the Republic of Croatia and the resolution ministries and public firms in the construction of capital facilities. Fifth. Listen to me. Fifth. The formation of the city government, the headship and the city council in the way of the HDZ mayor. It was signed by the secretary general. This is a document, not a fabrication. He's not going around, so there's something he's talking about in the cafes. He offers an agreement requiring councilors to betray citizens' trust, to be lowlifes, and in return he offers money from the budget as we can see for development projects. He buys money for his budget, tries to buy city councilmen. This is an example of the worst possible political corruption, the worst. And this document should be sent to Europe, so when the prime minister goes around and boasts about fighting corruption, let him explain his secretary-in-chief's behaviour.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1650	Next replica, Honored Representative Rajko Ostojic. Ranko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1651	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. I would like, first of all, to my dear fellow Stazic, to bend down, obviously, to warn my dear fellow Stazic, to actually replicate his story of Sinj, because I think it is very important that this applies to only part of the citizens. On the part of the citizens of Sinj who were ready for such a kind of trade to come to the opportunity to betray others for 300 million kunas. And not all citizens of Sinj did. And two. I'd ask him not to go too far with the Vesnik circulation. It's certainly not 7 grand, it's much smaller. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1652	Dear Representative Zlatko Horvat. Here you go. Excuse me. We have before. This is a bit of a late reaction from a colleague, Vinkovic. ... You can't, you can't, you can't, to a late reaction. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Vice President of the House of Neven Mimica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1653	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. We have before us a proposal for a state budget for 2008. The general place of all budgetary discussions is an attempt to describe the budget in the shortest part of the words. From this point on, they also know the most frequently unconvinced attributes of development, social, balanced, restrictive, aggressive, conservative or stimulating budgets. This time, I'd only replace them with one. It's about a helpless budget. It is proposed by a government that has only clear objectives and has no clear idea of how they can be achieved and exited from objectively existing economic difficulties with growing inflation and insufficient economic growth. That is why these objective difficulties, too, make the government a more subjective budget. Without fostering economic policy, without an implementing development strategy, without a developed regional policy, without industrial policy, the Government cannot offer a budget that would bring about the economy and the standard of citizens from increasing dangers. With this budget made in the best way of policy, citizens and entrepreneurs will be left to themselves in the ruthless race of inflation and growth and inflation and investment, inflation and living standards. And when there is no development aid from the government, when there is no strategy and programme to help, then inflation always wins in such races and citizens' living standards are affected. And that's why this is the helpless budget of the helpless government. I would now like to refer to only two specific issues related to the 2008 National Budget Proposal. These are questions whether this budget guarantees effective public administration reform and whether it guarantees effective implementation of Europe's communication to citizens. I wonder if anyone in the government takes seriously the calls for reform of the state administration coming from the European Union as well as from the Croatian public. If anyone in the government had taken this seriously enough, it would not have allowed the proposal for a state budget for this year to reflect the need to implement the reform of the state administration, in fact to fully halt the implementation of this reform and thus further jeopardise the stalled dynamics of our accession negotiations with the European Union. Today, it is unfortunately too few of those who can boast that they have noticed that promises that the government has repeatedly repeated during the first four years of its mandate will be resolutely implemented by another commendable project, the one about creating a new, modern, capable and professional state administration. If such a draft budget is adopted, it will be final proof that state administration reforms will be neither in the fifth nor in any year of the government's term of office. In fact, the government forecasts that public administration salaries expenditures increase by 7.2% in 2008, indicating that not only employees' salaries will increase but that the number of employees in the state administration will also grow. At the same time, employees of the state administration would be creating increasing material costs by as much as 12.6% more than last year. A reform of the state administration in order to be effective and convincing should, in addition to the substantive changes in the way the state services operate, lead to a reduction in budget expenditures for employees' salaries and a reduction in material costs. I point out immediately, this claim does not mean that me or the SDP are in favour of firing employees in the state administration or reducing salaries in the state administration. The good government knows that it is possible and that it is possible to significantly reduce the total expenditure on employee salaries and that those who have left the state administration body do not lose their jobs and those who have remained in state administration authorities have significantly higher salaries than before. The good government can do so if it knows how to implement the reform of the state administration in which the ministries and bodies of the state administration will be significantly smaller by the number of employees and the surplus of civil servants will be employed in agencies and public services that are only financed by small works from the state budget and by a large part from their own revenues from providing public services, or will be employed in units of local and regional self-government in a significantly decentralised state structure. This government unfortunately does not show this ability to design and implement changes in the state administration. Therefore, it resorts to the easiest but worse and socially most expensive solutions of minimum wage increases for existing state employees, allowing them to make even more material costs by continuing their inefficient work. Thus, we will not descend from a high second place among the transition countries to measure the share of public sector costs in a gross social product that is too high 11% for Croatia. A thorough reform that would enable a more efficient administrative system could and should lead to a reduction in the share of public sector budget spending to a maximum of 8% of gross social product, thus bringing us closer to more administratively efficient transition countries. And that is why the Croatian public will undoubtedly read his basic message from this proposal for a state budget, without doubt, not to trust the government that talks about reform and does not propose a budgetary framework for its implementation. No more stories will be able to convince the Croatian public in anything contrary to what she already knows, and that is that the Croatian public administration is three and bureaucratic, expensive and wide and that citizens do not trust it. For successful adaptations and for the functioning of the conditions of membership in the European Union, there will no longer be enough just big stories, but in a relatively short period, real shifts and reforms will have to be made that will lead our public administration to a level of a functioning system capable of participating equally in the European administrative space on European public administration principles. The 2005 civil servants' law did not move the limits of the government's effectiveness because its real effects in the area of depoliticalisation and professionalisation of the state administration can only be measured by a failedly hidden politicisation in calling public tenders for the translation of former ministerial assistants into state officials. There is an unhindered agreement between coalition partners on quotas called professional and professional government officials. Such practice, on the one hand, leads to a rapid and significant increase in the number of State secretaries and, on the other hand, puts a mess into the criteria of expertise in which directors or former ministerial assistants may have significantly less sought-after work experience than those of subordinate civil servants. I would also refer to another important activity that I hold if it were not properly evaluated in the draft state budget. This is about implementing a communication strategy on Croatia's accession to EU membership. And again, informing the public and encouraging public dialogue on the European Union will remain just another beautiful desire that cannot be realised because the government has not foreseen enough money for its realisation. The position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration for 2008 provides for 9 million kuna for the implementation of the Information and Education Programme, means for the implementation of the communication strategy. It is only for 127 thousand kuna or only 1.4% more than it was spent for the same purpose last year in which it was clear that almost no systematic communication activities were implemented on the European Union. Long-term sustainable growth in public support for Croatian membership in the European Union and success in the ever closer membership referendum. It will be possible to encourage and support only the system communication strategy. Efficient communication by Europe requires citizens at least twice as much funding as it was invested in an inefficient year 2007. So at least 18 million kunas instead of the estimated 9 million kunas in the 2008 budget proposal. All those who want and expect the state budget to allow for the achievement of important development objectives such as the adoption of standards and values of the European Union will reject this proposal of the state budget, but only because it does not guarantee that we will have a state administration that would be able to communicate with the European administrative environment and who would be able to communicate with Europe to Croatian citizens. My colleagues and colleagues from the SDP Club have shown the arguments that this draft budget should also be rejected for other reasons. It can only look good to the promoter and his expensive partners who ask for and receive their share from the budget and for which Croatian taxpayers who rightly expect and do not receive the accelerated and even development of Croatia pay too high a price. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1654	Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1655	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, in a series of inaccuracies, I will correct only one claim where Mr. Mimica argued that they do not advocate the reduction of salaries in state services i.e. in the public administration. So you proved and showed that during your coalition government, you were the one who cut 5% of your salaries in public administration. And that you don't want to fire those workers, but that you want to beat them into some agencies, that's what you had in your term. It is clear that you want to cut your salary to civil servants and it is clear that you want to fire them like you did with the military and the police. And I would like to stress the following: without simulating civil servants and employees there are no projects, no programmes, no correct work, no service for Croatian citizens that they necessarily need. If they don't have any pay, they certainly don't have anything to work for.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1656	Excuse me. Dear Representative Zlatko Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1657	Mr. Vice President and Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, I've been listening all day to these stories about the budget that's been developed, which is encouraging, which is socially sensitive but not just today. The government has been trying to convince us in the last four years that every new budget proposed is just like that. And encouraged and developed and socially sensitive and much more. But the results say otherwise. The numbers are very exact. Economic growth is smaller. Inflation's growing. Pensions are really going down. We heard 44% and slightly more since 2003, today 38% have actually fallen to average pay. So unemployment is still high. Teachers are dissatisfied and so on and so forth. So these figures say that all these budgets that were proposed and which were claimed to be both stimulating and developmental were not. They were something else, though. Today we also heard one so as to say a new thing under quotes, that for all this... The disorder is the coalition government's fault. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I think it's really degutant for me to listen to it, and I think that such an alibi is simply unserious to say that the coalition government is to blame for all the troubles they've experienced, which have been hit by the state. But when you look at these figures in this budget, when you look at that 62% of the funds are spent on a state-run apparatus that manages the budget. To reduce resources for regional development then, of course, there is not much room for development, there is not much room for incentives and social sensitivity to not speak at all. All we need to do is ask the pensioners what they think about it or the trade unions that are preparing public protests, which clearly show what social sensitivity is through that budget. Today, there have been a lot of words here about centralization, about centralised resources, about state aids and trying to convince us that all units of local self-government are in the same position. That the criteria for granting these funds and support are objective, however, of course the situation is not so and here I will illustrate it with only one example. In the past two and a half years, the Varazdin County has built 15 sports halls and built over 20 elementary schools facilities, preparing them for a one-way course. All this was done without but believe it but believe it literally without a single kuna of state support or state aid. So only by own resources and county and the resources of units of local self-government, regardless of who is in power, in which municipality or city. So it clearly shows that we're not all in the same position and that that old proverb that's closer to the fire, it's better heated and it's very interesting. But today my colleagues spoke primarily of the Croatian People's Party and showed all the anomalies and irregularities in the attached state budget so that I skip the part. But the shortest I'd like to think about is a time-out for a few, with a few sentences to those things that concern directly the city of Varazdin from which I come and the areas I represent. Today, in the city of Varazdin, we have 5,000 students who are studying, living in the city, who are studying five new studies in a new university and several other universities in the city. And I must say that two years ago, and it is fair to say, with the support of the Ministry of Education and Minister Primorac, but also with great effort and city and county, we have built a wonderful dormitory. But we didn't, it wasn't solved and it wasn't adequately solved, the problem of eating those 5,000 students in the town of Varazdin was resolved. A special restaurant is also planned in the project, so I think it is time and opportunity to find the necessary money in the state budget with the funds and the city and the county to build such a restaurant and then that one whole is really surrounded and that these 5,000 students also have adequate accommodation to have an adequate diet. I must further mention that also in the city of Varazdin, the Centre for Education and Education of Children with Developmental Disabilities works. It's one of the largest centres in the country but it's located in completely inadequate conditions, conditions that really don't suit those students who normally need enhanced care. To solve this problem, the city of Varazdin has allocated 6 and a half thousand squares to build a new building such a center, and I have to tell you at a location in the city where the land price is not below 100 euros per square metre, so now you calculate what is 6 and a half thousand squares with at least 100 euros per square metre. It is the contribution of the city, but of course we are looking for support and we are looking through the amendments and through this debate to include the state budget and to solve one such issue. And just one more, of course, along with a series of amendments that we're going to give and that we expect not to be thrown into the basket, but to be seriously considered. It's a traffic issue in the city of Varazdin. Namely, railways that have been in the city of Varazdin for many years were one of the first in Croatia to have a railway line. They first cross the city in a completely unacceptable way and create a completely incompatible transport unit. We have a situation that over one, I can say black points of intersection, opposite street, Wilka Novaka street crosses several thousand cars every day, and that ramp goes down 25, 30 times a day. At the same time, the city of Varazdin in the area is building a new neighborhood of the city, where it will be 1500 new inhabitants and it is necessary to address the issue of this traffic, so here we appeal that we have projects for one underpass that would solve this issue and, of course, expect this issue to be seriously considered and to solve such a black spot in the city. Since I come from Varazdin, I must tell you that I don't care when I see in the draft support budget for certain branches, the economic branch that I welcome, however. But I don't see any support for what's particularly interesting in Varazdin. It's textiles. It's a tree. There are other activities, but first of all these two who employ several thousand people, and I don't see any support unlike some other branches, so I think it's inadmissible and that this should be taken into account when creating the final proposal for a state budget. And we will, through the amendments and through the debate on those financial plans of these state-owned companies, put some more, in the debate highlighted some more points.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1658	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Angelko Mihalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1659	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues in the Parliament. Here I am in the greater statement of my esteemed colleague of Parliament, Mr Horvat, agreeing. I highly appreciate him as Mayor of Varazdin. However, in order for things to be a little clearer, we have to say that I therefore support everything that is being said for the city of Varazdin that this initiative on textile subsidies should also be supported, then those problems around the nodes there on the tracks. Then, the construction of the “Tomislav Špoljar” centre and the rest. However, I do not agree that this government in the past four years, which has now been as seen from its exposure, has been said to have been a stepmom to Varazdin. I would just have to say that through a series of measures and activities, this government has greatly contributed to Varazdin County currently recording unemployment somewhere below 10%, 7% or 8%. One of the smallest in Croatia, and first of all, I have to say that this government four years ago with 20 million direct funds helped build electricity systems in the Varazdin free zone.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1660	A fellow Mihalic?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1661	Here's two more findings just.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1662	Well, don't! Dear Representative Zlatko Koračević. Was that a replica or correction of an incorrect quote? Inaccurate quote? Dear Representative Zlatko Koračević. He's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1663	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs. I spoke on behalf of the club and it's quite logical that I support this budget as I said. But I also have a duty to say a few things given the local patriotism and county I come from, which is Sisak-Moslavina County. Since the government meeting in Sisak was held in October 2006, certain conclusions were made there on capital projects in which the Government of the Republic of Croatia will participate along with Sisak-Moslavina County. One of these capital facilities is also the construction of a crafts school in Sisak and I am very glad that this project is supported by both the ministry and that it has entered those projects that will be financed by the World Bank. I can say that we have issued all the necessary permits and resolved the property issue and that the town of Sisak has committed itself to building a sports hall and complete infrastructure. The cost of building a school building is 28 million kuna. The County has also provided funds, and I believe that by means of the World Bank and the Ministry's resources, we will be solving this huge problem next year. The second capital project, which is also supported by the government's conclusion, is the construction of a new primary school in Popovaca. In fact, the municipality of Popovac notes the largest increase in birthrights in the Sisak-Moslavina County. Even today, students attend that school on three shifts, which is really too much of a burden for them, because they often come to school alone in the morning and leave at eight o’clock in the evening. If we add that most of the students are students from nearby places. That means they have to get up a lot sooner and travel. At this moment, we have built an architectural, urban solution and we believe that we will have the project documentation, location, building permit by the end of 2008. Since the school facility itself is estimated at 46 million kuna, we will certainly also need the help of the ministry first and foremost in that part of two and a half million kuna as long as it takes to complete the project documentation so that I believe that in these existing positions of the ministry there will also be funds for this capital project in Sisak-Moslavina County. The third extremely important project and perhaps the most important infrastructure project in our county is the reconstruction of the road Ludina-Kutina-Novska with the fact that this road actually goes from Zagreb County, so from Ivanić City to Novska. It's a project that weighs 65 million kuna. We are now starting with the reconstruction of that road and, of course, I want to appeal here, regardless of what the county road is, that the supination of this reconstruction includes both the Croatian road and the Ministry of Infrastructure, because if we want that alternative road, the highway really will be rescheduled in the right sense of the word, it will require large funds that are currently not available to Sisak-Moslavina County. Also two capital projects with which we started and where we had the support of Croatian waters and I believe that this will be the case and the future are two regional water lines. One water line covering Moslavina and Posavina, hence the area from Kutina to Ivanić City, the regional water line of Moslavina Posavina and the other covering the Lekenik-Petrinja-Sisak area where it is also making documentation at the end and here I believe that Croatian waters will have hearing for both projects. What is particularly interesting to us in Sisak-Moslavina County is to invest in agriculture. There have been frequent discussions by the opposition that Croatian citizens are expensively paying for this coalition. So I'm wondering if maybe the opposition thinks that agricultural families are people living in a third-class country and that they really don't need any kunas to survive. In the register of agricultural family holdings in the territory of the Republic of Croatia there are 100,000 family economies. If we multiply it by four, and some families are even more numerous then we get to half a million people living in this rural area that exclusively deals with agricultural production and surely the time has come to help them too. In addition, these are the people who are the guardians of our Croatian space, our Croatian villages, our traditions, languages, cultures and costumes, and certainly deserve great attention. Without these people, it's hard for anyone in Europe to recognize us because those features they kept over the years and passed on to generations are what makes us special in Europe. The same thing is, therefore, when we talk about Sisak-Moslavina County, where we have indeed made extraordinary efforts to increase the budget for agriculture and help family economies and brand products and preserve rural areas, but also to make a regionalisation of agricultural production, i.e. to enable people who know how to produce plums to produce plums, those who deal with apples to produce apples, and in this sense we set out to create centres. The first such centre that we established for plums and pitomatous chestnuts in the Banovina area in collaboration with the town of Petrinja can already say it has been revived, its activity will also be extended to organic food production because we have recently received significant recognitions as a county that has made the biggest steps in organic food production. From that point of view, we are also expecting help from the restoring ministry and from the position of rural development. We intend to make a similar center for the Moslavina area, for the apple and for the cricket. Škrelac is our indigenous variety that has really proven very well on the ground, and also Moslavina's area is strongest in the production of apples in the Republic of Croatia, and these people should be given more important professional and scientific assistance. What also adorns Sisak-Moslavina County is the largest number of horses in the Republic of Croatia, indigenous breeds of Croatian sows and Croatian cold-bloodeds that keep our pastures passing, of course as far as possible in view of large pasture areas, but which can be used both in tourism and in organic food production. I, of course, congratulate all those who worked on the return of our Lipiks from Serbia to Croatia and congratulate and the town of Lipik who indeed made great steps and moves to return to his native stables. Since horse farming is indeed high-level in other countries and makes even one significant part of the gross national income of other countries, I think it can also be a feature of Croatia especially for those parts that have experience and tradition in horsemaking. Other countries in the environment have specialised horse-farming facilities, so we in Sisak-Moslavina County, given the largest number of horses in the Republic of Croatia, are also recommending to support the establishment of such a centre, a professional institution that would care for horsekeeping. And finally when it comes to environmental protection, of course it's no secret that there are air quality problems in the city of Sisak and the city of Kutini. The County, with the help of the Energy Efficiency Fund, expanded the local air quality monitoring network, but we certainly expect further assistance from the fund in establishing automatic stations that are really expensive, prices range from one and a half million to two million kuna. In order to truly make sure that large polluters do not put and publish data that may sometimes not be entirely accurate, we like to control them for both ourselves and for our health and therefore, we expect the assistance of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, for the establishment of automatic measurement stations in Sisak and Kutina, but of course also for the establishment of a regional waste management centre in Sisak-Moslavina County. Since all these projects that I have listed are already at a large stage of realisation on the ground, they have the support of the local self-government unit, the county itself, and the resolution ministries have shown great interest in supporting them. I believe that adoption of this budget for 2008 will create conditions and therefore support the adoption of the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1664	Thank you. Honorable representative Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1665	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the government, respected colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. Last year's budget was named by the budget for a more balanced development of Croatia, but we all understand that this has not been achieved. We now have before us a draft budget for 2008 from which we representatives and citizens of the Republic of Croatia should read the equal care of the central state towards all. Is this true and whether in this draft budget the Government treats all motherly or some and motherly. I come from Varazdin County, of which we often have the opportunity to read and listen to praises in the media, but how much of these praises can be attributed to the government, and how much skills and skills of politicians who participate in local governance. Although colleagues have been complaining for years about the opacity and non-transparentity of the budget, the government has not made an effort for last term to have a revised, transparent text in front of us today. Obviously, some respond to this confusion of numbers and letters that only senior financial experts can fully cope with. The proposed budget for 2008 is so inaccurate, non-transparent and general that no projects and programmes for the Varazdin County can be read from it, as well as for other parts of Croatia. It can only be guessed whether the government will channel money through certain tenders into certain projects and programmes, but if it is tried by projects such as the town of Ivanca for archaeological research of the old town that we report on several occasions and we don't get the funds, then we can be sure that only the eligible under quotes deserve funding from the state budget. So much for the even development of our beautiful country. Since in Varazdin County and in most areas the authorities do not behave from the ruling coalition, it seems justified to me that my fear that some environments will be treated maternally and some machinian. Fear is based on concrete data, for example The city of Ivanec multiple times... projects for financial support from the state budget and received almost nothing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the other hand, some smaller municipalities and counties that are in HDZ power receive continued multimillion-dollar amounts. I am afraid that this draft budget wide opens the door to such a way of distribution of financial resources. The team before, because in 2009 we are expected to have local elections, in which until full, or until full... to come in this non-transparent funding. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As a young person entering politics, I thought and believed that the state must take equal care of everyone, of all Croatian citizens, that it must be just, that it must be fair. This is the proposal for a budget that rocked my conviction. As Minister Shuker says, I am sorry that he is not presently present, this budget is a slow disputed state spending, but whether this dispute should go to harm the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Encouragement of entrepreneurship is indeed a commendable goal, but what about those citizens who have no capital to be bold about being taken? As a matter of fact, we separated tourism into a separate ministry and left the social and health care together. Issuance for the sector is not at all followed by price hikes, communal fees. I don't see any possibility of increasing compensation for socially endangered groups, judging by the severances. So what do you expect from a government like this? Speaking of socially endangered groups, we in Ivantz have a male foster home. The home is a day - to - day work of experts who work hard to form young people who have fallen into the welfare system for various reasons. I wonder if anyone involved in the creation of this calculation has ever felt this institution. The conditions in which these children live, learn, socialize and the conditions in which employees and institutions work are below every minimum, quality of life and work. This government that insists on emphasising the importance of education, which emphasizes the growth of living standards obviously doesn't know what it's talking about, because when you put these children in such conditions, then you can forget about living standards and quality education, and the effort of all employees falls into the water. The government's coalition programme announced a fast road to Varazdin-Krapin, but this budget shows it will not start this year. So why would you if this wasn't pre-election time? The roads will start to build just before the elections, which is simply the style of the HDZ government, but we're all used to it anyway. Promises remain only promises, as long as the appropriate time is shown, the time of elections, when some activities are yet to take place, so I must admit that this government is indeed taken when it comes to vote-gathering. Dear Prime Ministers, I sincerely hope that I am wrong with my judgments, because this would mean that the citizens of this country will live better, more dignifiedly, because I think they deserve it, every citizen of this country, because they still showed you confidence, and you, you, with the first budget of this new mandate, are playing them. And it's not the rich ones, the understretched ones, but the weakest ones, whether we're talking about people or local environments, and the weaker the politics of your government can't survive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1666	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivan Hanzek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1667	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Appreciate that we've done a good watch today and we've been paid an hour-by-hour this would be worth it, and also appreciateing that as a pragmatic man of local self-government, it was actually the hardest thing for Minister Shuker today. He knows that his budget has passed, and he has to sit and listen and praise apologetic and criticism in place or less in place. I'll just try to point out something like this, so far it's not mentioned enough or not mentioned enough. We had a meeting today of the War Veterans Committee, here's the vice president, a member sitting here, with representatives of war-based associations. My colleague, I'm sorry, I didn't look wide enough. And they gave us one basic remark. That they had too late received material to study and to see what they and their fates had in this year and projections for next year. The only comfort we could give them was that we could tell them that we had received late too and that I could now say as a representative of local self-government that in my opposition HDZ would not come to the session, they would have refused to come to the session if they hadn't received the draft budget at least 8 days earlier, not because of us, because of those others who ask us, I think we should avoid such practice. I know that this year there are extraordinary circumstances about the budget, because of the election we were on temporary funding. He is in a hurry now for all of us and we are in a hurry, but I think that practice should be left out as standard in the Croatian Parliament. When it comes to the budget itself, there are some things that are already highlighted here. Unfortunately, they come to collect some of the things we've been letting in, the favourable movements of economic in our environment, the signs of our coming can say soon entry into the European Union, investment, flow of capital through different types of foreign investment. All of this may have led the government to believe, led the government to believe that only good programs should be adapted and prepared for spending. Unfortunately, as in the lives of each of us and in the economy and family, some things need to be planned, some things should be counted in advance in both the worse and the better. That's not what we did in Croatia. And we don't really have the answers to all the possible questions that will arise as he said objectively, but there is our subjective responsibility or subjective responsibility of the government. But since we're all participating through some function in society whether as mayors or mayors, we're also creating economic and living conditions. Then everyone in their part, someone less government, we bear the most responsibility for the consequences. And when it comes to the budget itself, I will again be pragmatic, and I said when the government was represented and when we talked about the government's trust, that I won't talk for long, that I won't be critical and suspicious, but that we'll test what we talked about at the budget. I'm gonna be a little regional around here now. Yeah, mostly what we all talked about in the pre-election campaign, in III. Croatian Zagorje election unit. All these projects are here. However, I think that also esteemed HDZ colleagues, but they must not say that they are not too satisfied that these positions are not being monitored by adequate amounts, and perhaps even more early and dynamic financing of certain projects. I therefore hope that during the period until this budget is adopted, my vocal request and the silent prayers of members of the ruling coalition will be answered in advance. In the general section, I would particularly like to highlight the issue of providing funds for the County Road Administrations. I would like to remind you that the association of cities together with the USID has funded a study that proposes other variations of road money distribution. The current way of distribution is not satisfied, so I can say everyone, from municipalities and cities across the county, and probably also colleagues in Croatian roads, would normally be much easier to do if it were more productive. But I think it's time to start preparing for at least the following year to enter with a new concept of redistributing that money and with relatively limited sources to maximise the results and effects of maintaining and improving the road infrastructure for which we are all responsible because citizens don't know which county, which is the state, which is the city. They want to know if it's okay if it's trafficked by good signalling. And it is also necessary for the Parliament's agenda to be found, probably for next year, and to consider the amendment of the Law on the financing of local self-government because we also agree that it is impossible to achieve even development, that there should be solidarity instruments at the level of the state. But it should also be said that in some moves, I have been talking about the Croatian government since '90. So to this day, regardless of who exercised authority, there was not enough help and support in some of the actions for those who could withdraw development. Here, I'm looking at a fellow Turk and some other mayors who aren't here right now, so I can't look at them, but I remember them. Cities that have had the opportunity to accelerate development not only their own, but also their environment to influence the development of those areas that have now and so far been undeveloped. As much as my expectations were really higher, my expectations in the budget were higher, and given what my colleagues in HSS and HSLS were talking about. However, it is obvious that their wishes have not been answered, that part of their wishes from the election campaign is likely to be heard in order to make fewer remarks on our part. Well, that's it. The dead body has no help, and they would say Zagorci, it's too late to sing after the crosses. The budget was essentially passed, and here, this is my little contribution just to thinking that I can call in that I said something after all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1668	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1669	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament! I'm going to correct the inaccuracies of my colleagues, Hanzek, who claimed that the Association of Defense had criticised us for not keeping the Veterans Club. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament clearly state who convenes meetings of clubs i.e. The board. And it is clear that your chairman of the board was to call yesterday a meeting of the Committee on War Veterans and discuss the matter that was delivered in the materials in the boxes. That the other thing is true, and you've claimed that it's incorrect, that we're afraid to say that there's a gap and there's not all the financial indicators for the project are exactly the following. We clearly speak what is visible from reason. You support this budget just can't say it because of party discipline.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1670	And respected representative Bozica Šolić, rectification of the quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1671	Thank you very much. I've just been corrected by my colleague, but I'm going to say that it's not true that we in HDZ can't admit that all local units are not equally represented in the budget. No, but it was just about that and it's true, remember, that you said that the absolute defence population is very well represented in the budget and that you support it, but that you must not admit it publicly. That's right. Remember.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1672	Now that we're working on... Now, if this is how we're going to get paid by the cord. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Your Honor, Agent Iron Flego.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1673	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. If the State is to serve the well-being of citizens, then the budget is a basic instrument for this well-being as an alternative and a criterion for the realisation of the declared strategic objectives which serve that prosperity. In Croatia, there is unfortunately a need for progress in almost everything, especially in employment, living standards, pension levels, poverty removal, health services, infrastructure building, in all stages of education, especially in postgraduate studies, lifelong learning, etc. The state and then the state budget should serve primarily to meet these needs, or to meet the strategic objectives outlined, and among these objectives, very high sometimes and highest place belongs to education and science. The strategic steps of education and science are particularly reflected in all key documents both these and the last government, a coalition agreement from 8.1 this year, the government's 2008-2011 programme, a strategic framework for development in 2006-2013. I could still count. It is discussed by a number of European and world conventions, declarations, written discussions as well as a fundamental development document of the European Union, namely one we call the Lisbon Strategy 2010. Whether the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008 meets the declared objectives and whether it follows the principles declared by the Government 12.1. of this year a month and a half ago. Let us consider a more detailed area of education and science. At the beginning of chapter 14, the Government programme tells us among other things, it is page 66, "We want to make Croatia a knowledge-based society and create the most successful education system in the wider region by 2010.". A somewhat earlier quoted sentence "Croatian society only has a future if education becomes a national priority and knowledge today is the only real capital.". Increasing the percentage of the higher education population will enable us to develop and increase Croatia's competitiveness on an increasingly demanding European global labour market and building a knowledge society is the only way to Croatia in the European summit. The strategic framework for the development of Prime Minister Sanader writes at the end of its introduction: "The strategic framework recognises education, quality of knowledge, productive use of scientific results and the use of information and communication technology as the basis of the development and transformation of Croatian society.". It is precisely knowledge, education and excellence that will allow us to recognize and exploit current and future challenges in order to achieve growth, employment and progress. In the same documents, let me remind you, the first chapter after the introduction is dedicated to the people and knowledge and measures that need to be taken in this sector in order to make our education system a developmental one, and the next chapter considers science and technology as necessary measures in this activity in order for the science system to start a new cycle of development of the Croatian economy and contribute to the improvement in the functioning and in Croatia of living people. Changes are also needed in the education system and in the research and science system. Changes cost but every environment that is intended to develop and advance knows that not only is it necessary but it is also the most rewarding to invest in people, or in their own, as generic and specific competences are said today. Changes in education cost money, but they're worth it. It's very good documents, and I don't know who I could not support or encourage. They are defined and defined very often and good goals, and how they are served by the draft of this budget. He lets them down by his colleagues and colleagues. So the government programme, as we have already repeated several times on page 68, says that the allocation of the state budget for education, science and technology in 2008 will increase by 10 to 15% in order to implement these programmes. The draft budget projected an increase of 8.66% and the government failed itself, the parliament failed, the people deceived. The HDZ as the main creator of the coalition has somehow deceived coalition partners or they have given themselves up and coalition parties have cheated on themselves only on the commitments and on the days of their promises. The principle of reliability that the prime minister proudly declared in this hall a month and a half ago was abandoned. The proposed budget is unfortunately not enough to fully increase wages and employment dynamics for the Bologna process, and quality education and scientific research and development are the only activities that can involve Croatia in the global economy in the global world and allow our citizens prosperity. The documents and texts I mentioned and there are others, of course, are only a kind of deception, unreal promises because there is not enough money to implement what has been drawn out, and that is our paradox. We have great projects, we have very good documents, and then we end up in the finals. It's not just about whether it's 10% or 8.66%. Analytically, every one of those budgets of an educational institution, especially a scientific institution where 70 or more percent of the budget goes to pay is undeveloped. Each one of those budgets of a highly organised scientific institution in which the amount of wages is over 70% is factual social assistance, not a serious scientific research institute. In the 2005 and 2006 budgets, a disproportion was introduced in the financing of universities by the number of students and by the number of teachers. This disproportion continues because it is practically a linear increase in the budget for the university in Croatia, which also increases the difference in these financial relations by more or less equal activities. For scientific research equipment which is the basis or basic instrument for scientific research and therefore development based on science and the construction of a knowledge society, 35 million kuna is foreseen. When we had 100 million kunas, it was criticised as very little. Now we have come to the 35 million kuna with this and with certain maintenance costs and equipment particularly according to, the newly employed are significantly smaller than the ones that are real, from new jobs. We today have two thousand 700 scientific recruits. In 2003, at the end of 2003, we had two thousand 200. Thus, a new thousand 700 were employed if employed because one part of them had left the system. One part of them didn't satisfy it. A part of them has advanced to docents. But this does not mean that a thousand 700 recruiting jobs are opened the same as it does not mean that 7,000, 700 new jobs are opened in the education system but are simply either a generation shift or a normal rotation. The student centre in Zagreb grows below 100%. So he falls into absolute proportions. In a moment... 66 and so on and so forth. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We will, of course, try to amend the amendments from our vision to fix that budget. And try to help you colleagues and coalition colleagues to make this budget much closer to being able to realize what we have declared or what you have declared. With the final or last warning when we have difficulty and crisis and in Croatia it is certainly the case because Croatia has only 7.4% of higher education. 40% of those with primary school. Then we invest in one of the activities that can best get us out of that state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1674	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected representative Susana Bilic-Vardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1675	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the State Council. I would like to correct the incorrect allegations of a respected representative who said that by this budget relating to science, education and sport, the Government of the Republic of Croatia lost or failed the principle of reliability it gave when presenting the Government and the Government's programme for the period from 2008 to 2011. I claim that this is not true and repeat what the Prime Minister and Minister of Science, Education and Sports have said today, and that is: raising the budget for science, education and sport 8.66%, 933 million. It means that what my colleague Flego said isn't true. And he himself and his party failed the principle of credibility because while they were in power, they acted as the HDZ government behaves by investing and raising the budget of science, education and sports by 50% in the last 4 years, surely that today's investments would be much higher than the 8.66% with which the opposition colleagues are not satisfied.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1676	Thank you. It's Mr. Damir Caine's turn to be gone, so he loses his right to debate on this agenda point. It's one big disaster. Mrs. Biserka Vranic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1677	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs allow me to take part in the debate on the adoption of the 2008 state budget as well as the 2009 and 2010 projections. It is logical that the state budget is a document that will never be satisfied with. There will always be some, some in part, and some in no way at all. But what is important, it is important to stress that it is a programming document that should be visible where the Government is heading and which we as a state have not this year or next but in two, three, four and more years. With regard to the State budget for 2008, it is apparent that no change in the tax system or in tax policy has been planned and remains in force in the provision under which units of local self-government have the highest income, the most significant income from income tax and the state budget is filled with the largest part of the income tax. The VAT is neither mentioned nor predicted any change in the system of law. What is important to stress is that for many years especially in the election campaign, we all sort of boast that we are aware that it is important to introduce decentralisation in the country and this real decentralisation. And that means economic, legal and political. However, this budget does not show this, and I would particularly stress the fact that both the government's provision and decision, and in particular the relevant Ministry of Labour and Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship and the great pawnage of then-Secret Minister Vukelic, has made a decision to insist that there are as many quality working zones in Croatia as possible. There were talk of 200 working zones in the Republic of Croatia, which the local self-government units accepted as a whole. The ones they had on the terms. They spent a lot of money making the programme, also for buying land, for regulating the infrastructure and for all other preparations needed to develop capital or economic development and bring it to the centre in which it is sought. However, just when we all hoped that we had finally solved the problem of employment, the problem of a high unemployment rate and ultimately a more high quality charge of our budgets especially at local levels. I mean municipalities, cities and counties. There's been a turnaround and it's come up, there's a law where the profit tax goes to the state budget. It has now occurred to us at local levels that we are condemned and in some ways dependent on the tax of smaller craftsmen, smaller businessmen and all those who do and welcome us to our neighborhoods. However, their economic and financial power is relatively weak. All that is stronger is on profits and of course it has a greater potential for development, a greater possibility of investment, a greater possibility of expansion and normal for the state budget today to record far, far greater income than this new tax system is made and recorded by local self-government units. Although we don't keep secrets, and we don't feel that all units of local self-government are damaged or that they've all been given the law. I think it is extremely necessary for us to start discussing this problem as soon as possible, to implement the measures as soon as possible, even if at some stages or stages, because it will happen to us to enter the European Union and we will simply not be but a couple or competitive to work together and work together with countries that are already in the European Union because we will only adapt to a new decentralisation system that we are not prepared for or are prepared for at all at an extremely small scale. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1678	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Bruno Kurelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1679	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected members and members of the government, respected MPs and MPs. There's a lot today, and now a deep night here has been said about the budget. He analyzed himself here on both economic and political terms. Have we asked ourselves what the citizens think about this budget? Those who may have heard and seen us today through the media. Many of them don't understand what a gross domestic product like my esteemed colleague Opačić said today. Many do not worry about what competitiveness is, and what are they interested in? They want to know how they're going to live, whether they're going to get bigger pensions, bigger salaries, and whether inflation is going to choke them. This asphyxiation is metaphorical. Will they have better health care available and better? And what do the leaders who run the local self-government units think? They think they will realise their projects and citizens' projects with the help of state budget funds. Sometimes they are projects that are necessary to meet the basic needs of life or the minimum of existence. Because while some of them are lying there with the Internet, others today have no electricity or running water, even in areas where I come from in the carlovakia county. Whether the budget is readable with the element of visibility and those who did not participate in its creation. Does this budget benefit only those who are our own or perhaps loved by the authorities? There may also be those from the base because of hierarchical gains that do not ask for enough from the center because they consider it to be the ones from the center that suggest that now is not the time. Somewhere in the morning at the beginning of this apprehension, an esteemed representative found it. This government has a clear path and is not subject to requirements on the side. No matter how hard we try to hide these doubts, they stand when we read the redistribution. Today Bible sayings were also used to strengthen argument. I'm gonna be mean. It's 10:00 p.m., and I'll say, "Blessed are those who believe, because their kingdom is heavenly." I'll be targeted, I'll only give some observations of the 2008 draft budget and the involvement of the Karlovac County and the units within it into this budget. Let's take it in a row. Ministry of Finance, side 71 of helping local and regional administration, ongoing aid to the general state, cities. Just Slunj. One full three million with growth projected in 2009 and 2010 for 6 to 7% and the city of Karlovac as the centre of 189,000. The municipalities passed six who got something better. Seven Barilovic received nothing, and last year she received 42,000 kuna. Out of the 46.3 million current aids allocated to the Karlovacka counties, it received nothing, and it received 2 years ago 61,000 kuna. The water supply system development and disposal programme within the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy has no funds intended for water supply systems in the region of Karlovac County. You haven't been very generous in social care towards the state of Karlovac. The home for children “Vladimir Nazor” received only 200,000 kuna, which is a capital donation. A rehabilitation centre "Jaškovo" will only hope for 2010 million kuna. Regional development funds per county are very modest. Karlovac County received 2.8 million capital aid, and when it is divided by units of local self-government within the county imagine how much it will get. I appreciate your biology. If I were to go further with time, we might as well go to sleep here. Before I finish, I take the budget as a donation, not a donation. A grant for the specific and real problems of the population and the areas they need. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1680	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Ponzimir Mršić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1681	Dear President, and I welcome you esteemed colleagues and colleagues and members of the government wherever they may be. This is the first time that the Croatian Parliament is discussing the budget without a single member of the government being here in the Assembly Hall and that the government does not need to hear what the MPs think about the basic policy document in one budget year with projections for next year. But, well, we're used to a lot of things, I hope we don't have to get used to something worse than what we had in the last four years, although this doesn't lead to any better. For me, this is the fifth time I've discussed the state budget, and I've debated the rebalances of the state budget four times, so the ninth time...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1682	I'm 18.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1683	Okay, maybe I'll catch up with you. So the ninth time I've discussed this document. And I've always been looking for a way, trying to understand why there's never a Koprivnica in there, and I really thought, so here's the people who forgot, so they predicted, so they failed. I doubt the ministers wanted to sign it up. I was just beginning to believe there was a software error. That the government's software has entered a virus, a virus called "police" and that all that matters about the Koprivnica is simply automatically thrown out of this state budget. And it would be quite correct for that virus to work not only on the spending side but also on the income side. If you won't let us take it then you won't. Then don't take such generous taxes from Koprivnica and Koprivnica-križevci County if you're not returning anything to that county and that city and local self-government units in the county area. You know, I'm still getting radio shows that were held by my colleagues on the HDZ list in the 2nd constituency unit, not that they were scattered, that was hard to hear, millions. At the end when they could no longer convince any voters, the billions they were supposed to come with this budget to Koprivnica and Koprivnica-Kristevnica County. Now I wonder where they are. There are neither members of the government nor billions. Whether it was suddenly forgotten or not to be installed at all, it was simply trying to trick voters and say ok. vote for us, many billions will come, and then these billions of people will not be because today we have heard all sorts of things about this budget, and like this, and we need to understand the movement of mortgage loans in America, because it has a terrible impact on revenues from some taxes in Croatia, etc. etc. And I would specifically ask a question here. Not why pre-election promises of the ruling coalition are not being fulfilled but why government decisions are not being carried out, as the government made quite concrete decisions in Koprivnica on 20 June 2004. One of them is that in 1.1.2009, the physical emptying of the home for children without the proper family care of "Spring" is to be returned to the church, and until then the state will build a new home "Spring" and allow these children to move there. Who in the government doesn't want these kids to have a new home but to end up on the street in 1.1? Children who were not fortunate to live in the family but who were excluded from their family, created a new home without which they are now left. Doesn't 118 billion have 2-3 million for that home? ... I yelled at my colleague at half past three in the morning, and I will shout every time I fight for the interests and rights of the citizens, and I will especially yell at when we will be filled with the ears of your promises, unfulfilled promises especially regarding children without family care. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Just so much for a socially sensitive budget. Who's gonna tell those kids at Christmas that they've got nowhere else to go back? It's not a SDP promise, it's not another HDZ promise, it's a government decision. It's the government's decision. Four years are promised to build a fast road towards Koprivnica. Some talk about traffic isolation and this, for four years, traffic is a fast road towards Koprivnica. To this day, there is no local license yet, and we were promised, even the vice president of the government, opening a fair in the 10th month said that someone next year would come to the Cross by hitchhiking, he would come on a fast road. He won't come because he doesn't even have a location permit, he doesn't know where he's supposed to build it even if he could build it, and he knew he needed money and baggers for it. And it's being promised again, and none of it's going to be this year. A few days ago, she was an 18-year-old HDZ in Koprivnica. It was as if it had been forgotten that the election had ended and there were no pre-election promises. It was once again promised that the track to Koprivnica would be completed by the second track in the term of the government, and we have a programme to build railways only in 2011, it will start to build, in one year it cannot be completed. In one year, it can't be over. Nothing else is mentioned in Koprivnica, not many other promise projects that have been made in the election campaign and what has been said in recent days. Unfortunately, Koprivnica only serves as a milk cow again, and these coins are being intertwined elsewhere because we obviously do not have any needs. The Podravska highway, at that meeting of the Government in Koprivnica, was decided to form, i.e. to study the profitability of the sub-level highway in the speedy road profile. It is a road to connect Slovenia, so Ptuj, Varazdin, Ludbreg, Koprivnica, Virovitica, Nasice, Osijek and to Vukovar continue towards Serbia. We cannot have only one road in Croatia, Zagreb-Lipovac. And that's when the decision was made to make cost-effectiveness studies. In a year and a half, the government failed to agree on a cost-effectiveness study. That road isn't in the budget. The construction and reconstruction of fast roads from 571 million to 118 million in 2009. There won't be enough money to end this, let alone make a fast road to Bjelovar still to Virovitica, let alone to make a fast road to Križevci further to Koprivnica, i.e. to Botov, let alone to make a fast road along the sub-level magistrate in the speed road profile. And in all this I speak for the ninth time, and no one hears it. Once upon a time, there were ministers who could listen to it. And finally, allow me just a few words about this famous fiscal decentralisation. There's been a change of law. Last year, billions and 600 million kuna units of local self-government made more income taxes. Out of these billions and 600 million, 900 million kuna have returned income tax returns. At the same time, the state made 3 and a half billion kuna more income from profit tax, and if it did last about 8 and a half billion, 30% of it belonged to local self-government units, which means it's somewhere around 3 billion. When you subtract from that 3 billion that we were really making, it is obvious that fiscal decentralisation resulted in the state having 2 billion kunas more in the budget than it would have had if it had remained the old law in force.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1684	Thank you very much. Correction, Mr. Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1685	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Namely, I will correct the incorrect allegations about road infrastructure and that it will not be built, and we listened to Mr. Mršić today that he said that sub-level fast roads will be nothing. In fact, segments of the Ormoš-Ilock road are being built, and construction permits are being issued in segments. Here in two weeks is the competition for the segment of the fast Podravna road Slatina-Virovica and the north... which is the same in this segment also fast road to Koprivnica is the documentation done, only the town of Koprivnica has not yet made a decision from which to the left or right will enter the fast road to the town of Koprivnica. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1686	Thank you. We have one replica, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1687	Thank you very much. Mr. Mršić, I don't think it's really fair that here's how many times you've said you've been waiting for the fifth term to see Koprivnica in the budget and to make something for that city, but here's an idea for me. There's a town building a gym, a sports hall big. Perhaps if you had put in Koprivnica a program of islands and coasts, you might have managed to get money for a new hall in Koprivnica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1688	Answer, Mr. Gristle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1689	Well, thank you, colleague Maras, you have pointed out the inequality between the citizens of the Republic of Croatia because while in some cities the halls are being built with state money somewhere else, which is for example the town of Koprivnica, we cannot even get an increase in decentralised funds for the school and hall that we built according to the model of public private partnership. The state could even reward us a little with what we gave in the knowledge and experience that we acquired at the time, because the guidelines were practically written according to how the hall and gymnasium "Fran Galović" were done in Koprivnica according to the model of public private partnership. But when the government needs to get out of the sleeve, the possibility and the items to start building a new sports hall in Osijek in pre-election time, when there is a need then the item and the money is drawn to finance a new hall in Zadar, but for the new school in Koprivnica there is no money and this shows how much this budget is actually aimed at making Croatia a state of knowledge. Obviously, it is much more important whether and where the World Handball Championship will be played than under what conditions our high school students will go to next year in high school.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1690	Thank you. It's Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1691	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. The proposed budget with planned revenue of 115.6 billion and expenditures of 119.4 billion based on the growth of the gross domestic product of 4 and a half percent and inflation of 5.2% certainly cannot satisfy all the wishes and plans that have been made today, and will be added to this assembly. One key feature of this budget is savings. By other balanced regional development of all parts, that is, those who, by their gross domestic percapital product, are far behind our neighboring Eastern countries. The town of Zagreb with almost 13,000 euros per gross domestic product per capita is 3 and a half times more developed than Brodo-Posavina County, the weakest county with only 3 thousand 785 euros per capita or even more than the city of Zagreb is twice as strong as the national average when it comes to gross domestic product, and yet there is still a third of the European average. And while northwestern Croatia creates almost half of the gross domestic product 48.2% and is constantly on the rise, the share of Pannonian Croatia permanently declines is only 20%. As agriculture has the largest share in the gross domestic product of Slavonia, it best points to the state of agriculture and where our agriculture goes. So don't mind me saying something about agriculture, even though it is indeed the goal of an even development of all parts of Croatia, as I pointed out, in Slavonia it means investing in agriculture, in increasing competitiveness, in export orientation. The agriculture ministry, as already said here several times, will have 4 and a half billion kuna or 12% higher than last year. Subsidies are secured 3 and a half billion, or 400 million more than last year. Whether this will be enough to restructure agriculture, regulate new technologies, and to achieve a rationalisation of costs by maximising the effects of agricultural policy, or whether we can increase the competitiveness of our agriculture with such a proposed budget, not counting the normal current trend of lower prices compared to European ones. For years, the Ministry of Agriculture has not implemented the Agriculture Act. And I will repeat who knows which times, and let it be a challenge for the Minister of Agriculture who unfortunately is not here, that indeed this Parliament has never debated and assessed the effectiveness of certain measures and their effectiveness as well as the state of agriculture and fisheries. Once we talk about irrigation and the budget for those positions, and the real situation on the ground is below 10,000 hectares of irrigation. The second time we're talking about draining, especially... floods. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Once we favour multi-annual plantations, and forget that intensive work culture and vegetables and flora that are precisely on small areas like ours, can provide financial results with an adequate incentive policy. This year we increase three times the soil quality control. Finally, we realized that there is no land regulation whether it is a meliorative procedure, a rounding of agricultural land or a physical and chemical quality of soil in order to direct the production of organic food or organic food, whatever they call it. There is no sustainable management of agricultural areas without analysis of soil quality. We have also recognised the importance of plant protection and pesticide control as they increase resources for the institution to monitor environmental pollution, especially agricultural land and food residences, as well as agricultural education. We're setting aside funds to monitor freshwater fishing. It is concluded that credible sublaws should be adopted. Does that mean that the existing ones aren't and who actually brought them? I must say, this branch of the economy deserves more, with more than four and a half thousand acres before the war. Today we have 20% in production, the rest we've turned into schizophrenics and I'm not going to talk about it even though I wanted to say something else, but my colleagues have already said that we once exported almost 70% of the production, that we don't have enough for our own needs today. It's not a good thing we're cutting back on seed and waste. We had an increase one year from 2.8 to 7.9 million. Now we're re-proposing a 43% reduction. We're full of mouths to preserve plant diversity, maintain species, but we're forgetting our selection. We forget that we used to be big producers and big exporters of seeds, while here we are today, and we import it. Another position deserves special attention. Finally, the funds for the ergel Lipik have been provided. ... It is not enough to return the horses from Serbia, for they are ours, for they are good genetic grounds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the contrary, the "Lipik" ergel must become an important segment of Croatian horsekeeping, such as "Djakovo". Unfortunately, I have to say that the reduced funds for the intervention of the Directorate for Market and Structural Support are almost 42%, or if we look from 340 million to 200 million. It's not enough to intervene just when it comes to mandarins, olives and apples. Market disturbances are much greater, especially in cattle farming in the case of bovine animals, pigs whose consequences of untimely or insufficient interventions are then felt for many years and can permanently affect our economic branches. It is good to continue the programmes for improving the agricultural products market by establishing a cooperative market infrastructure, by paying or already paying workers in one segment last year, because it was in 2001 that some countries that passed the transition precisely achieved market stabilisation by leading small farmers. Funds for support programmes for the marketing preparation of agricultural products for the market have been provided, for the construction, adaptation, equipment of processing plants, confectionery and packaging of agricultural products. Unfortunately, the establishment of new institutions such as the Agricultural Land Agency, the Rural Development Agency until the Agriculture Chamber, which for 7 years has failed to revive or have not passed the law, without a real strategy that will be based on an analysis of all resources can contribute only to increasing the competitiveness of agriculture by increasing budget spending. By mentioning a network of rural engineers besides an advisory service that works well, but because of lack of personnel and resources, not everything comes and everywhere is quite unserious. The preservation of cultural heritage and the promotion of the work of cultural art societies in the rural area certainly leads to the preservation of traditional promises and manifestations and ethnic heritage. By this we will be recognizable in the European Union. But don't we have the Ministry of Culture for that, but we're pushing that segment into agriculture that really has nothing in common. And if we add that we practically need to co-finance exactly the technology promotion programmes of the food industry, it's important and it's really good that this position is growing because on several occasions we warned that we had to offer almost a product, processed, packed. A little bit of a revolution, I have to say, that I'm bringing somewhere or I'm taking part in the ninth budget. That unfortunate mention... It's a coolant. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we had built them as much as we had always allocated and I don't know where they were stuck, then we would have stored all the products of the European Union. For years, direct sales projects are funded. It should finally be said that such sales are difficult to place more than 10% of production. Without serious markets, and our projects are not realised, without markets that will be available to every producer, without that market infrastructure everything else turns out to be makeup. Supports are a significant segment of the development and achievement of the competitiveness of agricultural products. We raise resources, we encourage everything and everything. I'm afraid it won't be enough or to encourage 950,000 hectares at this point is unserious and I ask that the cost of subsidies be reconsidered.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1692	Thank you very much. We have one replica, so you'll be able to continue. Mr. Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1693	Mrs. Chuhnil! I've been listening to you unusually carefully. I must say, I am completely confused with this debate. You say, it's good that it exists, but it's not enough. It's good to increase, but that's not enough either. It's good to encourage I don't know cultural, protection of cultural goods, but it doesn't belong to agriculture, it belongs to culture. I can't figure out whether you're supporting or not this budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1694	Thank you. Answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1695	Yes, my colleague, I support this budget but I must say I have the right to point out what I am pleased with and what I am dissatisfied with in this budget. I want to assess what's positive in this budget. I also want to point out everything that could be fixed. I have to say that every time I talk about agriculture, and I'm sure you've noticed that, and I'm especially glad that some of the precisely ones that I've been pointing out in 2001, 2002, have a little bit of a comeback and that it's moving. I didn't get a chance to talk because it was interrupted and what you were talking about about inciting, income, funds that unfortunately are being spent on agriculture, and they're purely social. So I'm going to point out, along with everyone who thinks the place is somewhere else, that we're going to change things.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1696	Thank you. It is up to Mr. Representative Marin Brkarić who is not present and loses the right to debate on this agenda point. It's Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1697	Thank you very much. Mr. President, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives, representatives of the government. It's a little late, so I'll try to be as fast as I can. In front of us today, there is a proposal for a state budget that should be the basis for achieving certain policies, policies of the Croatian government. I'm not talking about the government programme today, the coalition agreement, but about why I think about why this budget is the first such new government to lead Croatia in the wrong direction. Something about macroeconomic frameworks. It says in the budget that economic growth will be 4.5% a year. Until just a month ago, two of us heard that we're going to have an economic growth of over 7%, that we're going to have an economic jump and now we're announcing 4.5% more jump than jump, you're going to admit. I believe that this rate of 4.5% is conservative, unambitious and too low to provide Croatian citizens with a better life in 2008. We also have information that inflation will be 5.2% in 2008 which necessarily leads to the conclusion that the real level of net wages of Croatian citizens will fall this year. The example works, net earnings in November last year were worth 0.5% more than a year earlier. Remember and you must always have the fact that in Croatia today we have 27% of the average European salary. So if every year the net salary grew by half a percent realistically, somewhere in about 140 years we would be on the European average. But the problem is, next year we're going to have a real net pay drop. Because of the inflation rate and economic growth ratio, 4.5% on the one hand is 5.2% on the other hand, the average salary and all the real indicators are going to be less, it's going to be worth less than this year. This is a disaster, and Croatian citizens will be able to buy less goods and services for their salary next year than they can this year. It seems to me that this government, like the last one, is always a surprise. First they tell us no one was hoping for this kind of inflation. After our speech, we were surprised by the recession on the world market. I also don't get it, but how come it didn't surprise you all until after the election and almost overnight. I think in Croatia today, there's a part of the agreed economy that we left for ourselves I thought twenty, thirty years ago. You agreed that prices don't go up until the election, and after that, we got hit by a sudden price hike. You're also saying that you agreed that electricity prices and energy prices rest until summer. All we can think about is what kind of wave of gatherings will come in the fall. The question arises whether there is anything the government can do to actually improve the standard of Croatian citizens, make real wages bigger. Someone in the government might tell us what we can do. So we only affect wages for 220 thousand employees in the state administration. And it can also say that if wages are raised in the Croatian economy we will further stimulate the increase in inflation rates. But the government must know that it creates an environment with its own policy and budget and programme that affects all Croatian citizens and those who do not work in the state administration. The government needs to know that it has a tool to deal with the problem of Croatian citizens' salary growth at the moment. It is only necessary to amend several laws that define the revenue side of the budget and return some of that money to Croatian citizens in order to improve their standard. Of course, in order for you to do this you have to have courage through some other laws, take those who have more to help those who are the most socially endangered. You must have the courage to establish an effective state administration, not every year to employ tens of thousands of new civil servants per party key, and to boast from year to year that you are reducing the unemployment rate and that it is currently at the lowest level. Of course, when most people are employed in the state administration. Retired people are even worse off than employees. The average pension is on never lower branches, is only 38% of the average salary or 66 kuna per day for all pensioners' needs. Six hundred thousand Croatian pensioners live with only 66 kuna per day for all needs they have. And this budget, I am deeply convinced, will not improve the poor position of pensioners and pensioners are those who pay the highest bill because of the inefficient and expensive state. There's something else about inflation. The document was made, so it is supposed to be about 5.2% indicative, although many experts estimate that due to these all-influenced energy prices will be at the end of the year and over 6% in Croatia. The inflation rate is justified by the impact of the recession in the world. It is said that inflation is lower in our country than in our environment. It is said that the government has taken serious measures to control inflation especially in food products. I don't think she's taken enough action. I believe that since food products have the most impact on the increase in inflation in Croatia, the government has not done what it can. All the serious countries in the world are the most subsidising and food production and thus enable the impact of the price rises on Croatian or Croatian citizens as little as possible. Do you know how we define inflation that is now based on the latest indicators, it has reached over 6% in one month. And the fact is, like I said, food products affect her most. It is usually explained that municipal services in certain municipalities and cities also affect inflation. That here are the municipalities, the cities, the districts are guilty of inflation today in Croatia. That's not true. It's just that inflation only increased by 10% last year under the influence of municipal services. So from the rate of 2.9%, 10% refers to, communal services and what they have accumulated. Government policy and budget should create a positive economic environment in Croatia. We should encourage investment in industrial production, help Croatian companies become as competitive as possible and not reconcile with the fact that Croatia has a growing negative balance of payments with abroad this year, which has reached a record 72 billion kuna. So much last year we imported more goods and services than we exported. And then it is normal that the influence of foreign economies on Croatia and its inflation rate is high. The government may say so it is not our job for Croatian companies to produce and compete in world markets. Because today is a problem, it's not a problem to produce. The problem is selling it somewhere. So you have to be competitive. Maybe it's not a fundamental, fundamental problem for the government, and maybe she shouldn't worry about it. But her problem is to create a positive economic environment. To help entrepreneurs to start companies, to be competitive, and if they need to be helped through the budget in some subsidies and other ways. And finally let me conclude why I won't support this budget? It is a huge budget of 100, nearly 115 billion kuna, which is largely spent on increasing the number of employees in state and public services. It seems politically to me that this budget does not provide Croatian citizens with job security and the ability to live with dignity from their work. With this state budget proposal the real value, Croatian citizens' salaries will fall next year and citizens will be harder to live and less able to buy from their salaries. Finally, I was particularly disappointed by the low level of investment in education and science as one of the fundamental elements of Croatia's further development. When we look at some other ministries, we see that education has gone worse than many of them. So much for my view of the budget, and now that there is no Mr. Minister, I wanted him to accept some of our amendments because that way we will certainly allow you to at least fix this budget a little bit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1698	The Secretary of State for Finance Zdravko Maric is present, and therefore he fully meets the requirements of the Rules of Procedure. So you can address the Secretary of State as well as the Minister. It's Mrs. Mirela Holly's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1699	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will talk about the budget of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and the budgetary items related to the protection of the environment, which has not been too much of a question so far. When it comes to this part of the budget as well as the rest of the budget as a whole, it can be said with HDZ or with coalition partners, unfortunately nothing new. The budget is a copy of last year, and that doesn't get too optimistic. I remind the budget is a fundamental document from which the government's policy is visible in the current year, and this budget says that the government has neither vision nor knowledge to ensure a higher standard of citizens, higher wages and higher pensions, more effective environmental protection and sustainable economic development. The budget says that the government is consistent with its inambition and proves that there are no professional and talented people with ideas, knowledge, labour and vision in HDZ. Although the prime minister in the opening statement explained that this unambitious budget was the result of objectively difficult economic circumstances in the world and thus tried to amneste his own responsibility and justify false promises made in the campaign, the fact is that this, this budget is precisely the result of the last four-year term of Ivo Sanader. It is unfortunate that even non-ambitious economic growth of 6.5% is not foreseen by the Ministry of Environmental Protection budget as the main authorities in charge of implementing environmental policy. And environmental protection is supposed to be at the top of this government's priorities. The budget of this Ministry after the rebalancing increases by 2.91%, and this includes the Environment Protection Agency and the Real Estate Intermediation Agency. The biggest increase in the budget is planned for the Environment Protection Agency, even 41.87% but not to overjoy this increase is not due to the sudden growth of the government's awareness of the importance of environmental protection, but rather to explain the implications of the European Commission's request and what it is saying and that the sad fact that foreigners seem to be more important in protecting our environment than our administration. I must once again warn of the senselessness of the current establishment of the Ministry that unites environmental protection and construction and separates the environment from the protection of nature and natural resources. The budgets for the protection of natural resources have been scattered throughout a series of resors and unambitious financial plans for the recovery of the entire series of so-called ". Black dots are not enough. It is necessary to mention the non-resolvement of the tragedy of Vranjica's inhabitants who have been for years, for decades the hostages of the salon then insufficiently planned waste management funds, poor 50 million kunas for equipment and coast guard vessels, which is a basic prerequisite for the implementation of the ZERP. And experts say that the price of 4 larger vessels and 60 smaller vessels for the real implementation of ZERP is about 800 million kuna. Water and sea protection budgets have also been reduced even though water is a strategic resource today, especially in the future. Then the Adriatic, which is constantly increasing the transport of tankers and ships, is constantly being exposed to increasing pollution from ships, the recent case with the Turkish ship is witnessing. And now I'd like to talk a little bit about the Fund's financial plan for environmental protection and energy efficiency. Although today's minister and then the opposition representative of the HDZ during the adoption of the law has been very strong against this Fund today, the funds accumulated by the same Fund are very good, and according to her words, the ministry's greatest successes are made possible by the funds of the Fund. And it would be very good if the Fund's business over the past two years would not have seen significant losses. More specifically, 302 million kunas created by the implementation of the Regulation on packaging waste. Although the Fund interprets this as paying citizens a fee for found packaging waste which was created prior to the adoption of the Regulation which may be considered a valid argument for the losses incurred in 2006 is the fact that the loss of the Fund in this area has grown enormously even in 2007 when all packaging on the Croatian market has already been paid. This, of course, says that the surplus packaging has come beyond Croatia's borders. Furthermore, the reason for the adoption of the Regulation was the use of packaging waste as very valuable secondary raw materials, which is why the state also co-financed and subsidized the construction of the "From bottle to bottle" factory, the "BBS" company under routes with more than EUR 4.5 million. Today, the plant places a sad 12-ton ampoule of five packagings on the market, and the rest of the funds for purchased five raw materials on the external markets with a single profit of 450 euros per tonne. Why does the fund itself not sell five packagings in the external markets and thus generate profits in favour of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and finally for projects to protect the environment, and therefore, of course, make profits, and since the implementation of the regulations on packaging waste is obviously... waste is not the real goal of the regulation, so a question arises which will cover the funds and cover the loss of the 302 million kuna fund created by the cleaning of packaging in Bosnia and Herzegovina. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The fund in the plan for this year doesn't say anything about how it will solve this problem and how it will tackle the packaging losses that are growing enormously and constantly. The government's failure to react to these and a whole series of other problems, as well as the lack of new projects in the budget, suggests that this government is unable to address the country's problems. As the sole purpose of this budget is to maintain the ruling majority in the Assembly and to harm the citizens of Croatia and their future, I invite you colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs not to support this budget at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1700	I hope my colleagues consider it. It's Mr. Representative Miranda Mrsic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1701	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. It's almost 15 to 10 to 11. Here's a few words I'll say about the health budget and stick the last nail into this budget, the health budget that's least developed, and most of all it's used to extract funds from the health system and settle some other needs. As you know, the health system is one of the most sensitive state systems and is not only aimed at treating patients, but is also directed as one of the social categories. Therefore, all changes in that system should be carefully planned and well implemented. The creators of this system obviously did not realize that one of the semi-changes in the health system is a health budget that should be balanced, but also ensure the level of health care achieved with the financial stability of the system. This budget shows that not only does the budget not only ensure the financial stability of the system but it is not even balanced because the various items of the budget of the item are planned, which will further cause the instability in the system and, by my assessment, lead to a failure of the system if the budget is not rebalanced in the seventh month. Before I look back at the main points of my budget debate, I find it necessary to point to the current situation in the system. What we have now is the inequality of citizens, the decline in the quality of health services, the dissatisfaction of citizens, the dissatisfaction of doctors. The system would work best if there weren't any patients, but it would work for itself. What the HDZ government has done in the past four years has made the patient a number, that debt here according to one statement by Minister Milinovic was 3 billion and a table, on the Health Committee 2 billion and 900. What I am pleased is that the administration has also admitted that there are debts in health care and that these debts are present, not as they were said to have no debts in health care. We're aware of long waiting lists, we've got excessive administration. We have an administrative fee that has already promised to be abolished several times, so we hope to be witnesses to this session of the Parliament, and there is evidence of lagging behind, investment in equipment, personnel and space. The budget provided to us does not solve any of these problems, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia at least as far as health care is concerned, and I see in other parts of the budget as no one pushes his head into the sand and does not see, or wants to solve the accumulated problems. If you look at the budget revenue table, you can see that the total budget growth is 6.36% while the growth of the budget, or the purpose tax for health care, means a health contribution somewhere around 9.63%, which is expected to be raised at an annual level of 18 billion 559 kuna. On the expenditure side of the budget expenditures rises by 4.63% while total health expenditures rise by 5.23%. There are 500 million kunas missing, which are clearly used by the Ministry of Finance for other purposes, and not for what the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have singled out from their salaries, which is treatment and improvement of health care. So the question remains where the rest of the medical system's assets are hidden. And as the expenditures look that's something anyone who is, anyone who's in the system might see that the expenses themselves are planned. Let's just say that by collective agreement, wages are 6%, so expenditure is planned for 5%. The question remains where will the drug resources be found, medical supplies, which means we'll have hospitals in the system that will be lost to 64 hospitals. 62 hospitals are losing more than 150 million kuna. All of this will lead to an deepening of the financial crisis in healthcare, which will lead to an even bigger period of payment in the system which is to remind me today for the pharmacy 6 months, and for hospitals for over a year we have examples that some county hospitals have been in charge of medicines and consumer medical material for almost two years. What surprised me is that although the minister himself said that health debts existed, there is no amount in the budget for the system to be rescheduled even though the government's programme was announced. So, consolidation of a system that's not seen in the budget itself. According to his own, according to statements on the Health Committee, the government's narrow cabinet will sit down and find the two-point kuna funds. I don't think that's gonna be the story we're gonna hear this year. When we talk about insolvency, the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance on 31.12. has a lack of funding of 800 million kuna, and since the HZZO budget is reduced and does not monitor the growth of costs, it is forecast that in 2008 there will be a further 1.2 billion kuna, which means with this budget, without the resolution that the HZZO will have less than 2 billion kuna in 2008, which will, as I said earlier, lead to further financial crisis in health care, on the issue of the functioning of the system due to unpaid accounts, and could be the first time in the health care sector to be subject to salary payments, because there is no provision anywhere for the funds needed to increase healthcare workers' salaries. The Government programme also states that healthcare will be financed in a transparent manner under Article 67. Health insurance laws. The budget does not show anything in which the health system will be financed under this article. The special story is planned under the items, and what is particularly surprising is again under the planning of prescription items where last year, 3.1 billion kuna was spent, and it is expected for this year 2.3 billion kuna, which means that the debt created this year plus the expected debt in the next year for prescription drugs will be over 1.5 billion kuna, which means for the supply of medicines you can assume for yourself. The administration itself boasts that funds were saved with a list of A and a list of Bs and the introduction of generic drugs. I don't think that without the real planning of spending in health care, and especially the consumption of prescription drugs will not be able to balance the system. For the purpose of saving funds in the budget, what also surprises me as a medic, and also as a citizen of the Republic of Croatia cannot accept such a budget is that reduced funds for the transplant programme, reduced funds for intervention cardiology, orthopaedic aids, which means that these patients will have less chance of getting the treatment they deserve, i.e. they will be questioned and some patients will probably not get adequate health care and some of these will die. Obviously, it is about programmes for citizens of the Republic of Croatia that do not appear to be important for the receipt of votes, but at the expense of the funds needed to treat these patients some other appetites. I regret to conclude that the health budget was obviously a source of resources to cover other budget dues, as it is seen that the funds are not only reduced but most of the items and are unreally planned and I do not believe that this budget should be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1702	Thank you. Dear representative Nada Cavlović Smiljanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1703	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. So regarding the State Budget 2008 proposal submitted, I will focus primarily on what this budget means for Virovitica-Podravska County where I come from. Introductoryly, I must say that Slavonia, as well as Virovitica-Podravska County, is economically lagging behind the rest of Croatia. Today, it is unfortunately the fact that Slavonia has become the poorest part of Croatia and so is our county. That's what all economic indicators are talking about. Today we have heard from my colleagues in the debate that the unemployment rate is, that Virovitica-Podravska County is second in place at the unemployment rate in our country. That is why I expected the Virovitica-Podravska County to start to solve at least some of the major and accumulated problems in order to solve the problem of the great economic lagging of Slavonia. I'll mention the introduction and what I think is very important, and that's the problem of our county's traffic isolation. Today our county is known to everyone, there's only one road road road, it's a sub-level highway and we rightly call it the highway of death. I must say that the current county government has been announcing construction for us since 2005 I would say these veins of housewives, two very important roads of fast road and this fast road of Vrbovec-Belovar-Virovica and the fast road, the section of the Virovitica-Slatina road as part of the Varazdin-Ilock road. I can tell you that these two roads have entered the coalition agreement of this government. On the eve of these elections HDZ even printed a publication for the 4th constituency, where it announced as a capital investment on the Vrbovec-Bjelovar-Virovica road, the value of the investment of 800 million kuna. Furthermore, building part of the fast road is the Virovitica-Slatina Podravska road, the value of the 400 million kuna investment should have been based on what our local leaders in the county said, starting in 2006. However, at the position of the Ministry of Transport, the Croatian roads which I have really read in detail I do not see that the construction of these really important roads will begin for both Slavonia and Virovitica-Podravska County. So I wonder, then, how to solve the problem of economic lagging out of Virovitica-Podravska County if you are not traffic-related, say how and how to bring investors and investors who will come to invest in our county if there is no such basic condition, which means road connection. What I find really important, I come from the county where most of the population deals with agriculture, it's certainly a irrigation project. The aim of the irrigation programme is to achieve stable income agricultural production, to enable the production of sufficient quantities of food for the needs of Croatian citizens and to create better assumptions for life in the country. The overall analysis found that irrigation should be accessed at the level of Slavonia and Baranja, as well as Virovitica-Podravska County. I really think it's finally time that the farmer really shouldn't depend on the weather today. By irrigating the damage to agricultural crops from droughts, we know that for the disastrous of Slavonia was our county in 2003 and this year in 2007, it changed... crops in favour of income cultures, and two crops would be allowed annually on the part of the surface. I'll just say that the estimated drought damage for last year in our county amounted to over 66 million kuna, so I wonder if it would be wiser if those money that means giving us this elemental disaster had been spent on the irrigation system, so we're drying up, so that the damage would not have happened to us. I'm not saying that the irrigation system would solve all the drought-related problems, but most of them would. What is also important by reading means the explanation of the financial plans of users of state users by 2010, this page 205, the irrigation system is spoken in the text section of the irrigation system Kapinci-Vaška. It's a pilot irrigation project that started with us in our county during 2006. However, at the position of the Ministry of Regional Development means under the irrigation system, 125 million kuna is provided in that position. However, there is no mention of this Capinci-Vaška project anywhere. However, the pilot project Kapinci-Vaška does not mention any meaning, and it is about an investment worth 40 million kunas that would irrigate a thousand 260 hectares of agricultural land, and so far only works have been done to build a bridge worth around 2 and a half million kuna. I ask if and what amount is secured in the state budget for the above-mentioned capital project that is absolutely necessary for our county? I must point out that I have a clear doubt about this, since the amount of 3 and a half million kuna that was to be allocated to this pilot project during the year 2007 as far as I know it didn't come to our county, and then I really can't believe it, and I really doubt that certain funds in the 2008 budget are even planned for the Capinci-Vaška irrigation system. And what she would like to say in particular and what is indeed the problem of the citizens of our county who unfortunately have been withdrawing since 2003, which is the problem of building the General Hospital Virovitica. It was a project by the coalition government at the time, a project worth 120m kuna, which won means approval of the resolution ministry during 2006, however, what happened. The then county government has meant a project that received the approval of Minister Ljubicic's permission to still obtain consent, an idea project is abolished and imagine how up-to-date this is, the second day has come a response that means that the request, to be abolished, is granted approval for the construction of the General Hospital Virovitica. So five years went by in return, the citizens of our county must go to treatment in other institutions. Now we're talking again about some kind of project worth 80 million kuna, but I don't know which way and which model it's going to finance. As far as I'm aware, the state is supposed to give an amount of 3 and a half million kuna each year above decentralised funds, and these days I hear that our hospital is in credit, they've been on loan for 10 years, and they're going to pay you back imagine that loan from the decentralised funds that the Ministry of Health provides. So I wonder what the level of service will be provided in our general hospital. And finally, I have to conclude that the government is still not taking care of... The development of the whole country, Slavonia, continues to be neglected in its development, and for this is solely the responsibility of this government, and this budget is clearly not going to change anything better. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1704	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1705	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I will correct the alleged co-worker Čavlovic where he states that from the project Krapinci-Vaška irrigating the municipality of Sopje nothing. In fact, the project is fully implemented, the funds are secured and withdrawn and spent, the new project of irrigation of the Gradina municipality is also being completed and solved and in fact the complete water supply and disposal project as well as irrigation in our county is being implemented in full swing, I don't know where Mrs. Cavlović lives that she didn't notice it. As far as Virovitica General Hospital is concerned, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has decided to set a 3 and a half million increase in decentralised funds annually so that a loan that will be raised for the construction of the hospital, and that project that was signed by your coalition authority after the election and after the term of office of your government, was actually a project that was not responsible for anything but for the money laundering in Virovitica that was to be carried out. Here was your project.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1706	Replica, a respected MP, vice president of the House of Zeljka Antunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1707	Thank you very much. Well, the debate of the distinguished MPs encouraged me to rebel a little because I don't think she pointed out what was the biggest problem and the biggest shame of giving up, and the difficulties, and then eventually returning to the project of building a viritative hospital. She named her colleague everything she was, she counted all the ridiculous procedures, all the funny excuses, all the politics that happened about that project. She mentioned that citizens are also without adequate health care, but she did not mention something that is extremely important, which is that it cost at least a million kuna, all of these games with the approval of a single project to replace one hospital director, so that an excuse could be found for her shift. All this cost taxpayers and all of Croatia, not only those who are patients or should be patients of a viritative hospital, cost at least one million kuna. And then we go back to the project, we go back to the fact that there is actually someone here who just said that Mr. Djakic was laundering money, but he's laundering it, unfortunately in a negative way, washing it to the detriment of taxpayers, to the harm of the quality of health care, and in favour of some of the privileged ones who have been doing it over and over again, worse than they were before.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1708	Thank you. Replica reply, respected representative Nada Čavlović Smiljanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1709	So I would just replicate Mrs. Antunovic and at her exposure I said 700 thousand kuna was costing the idea project of the General Hospital Virovitica, then there was a new idea project that cost something maybe a little less, and I said irrevocably gone for 5 years, the citizens of Virovitica mean they don't have adequate health care, doctors who went to specialization have no place to go back, and it's clear why it was done. It was only done because it was a coalition government project. I must point out that the project, an idea project of the General Hospital, was evaluated as one of the best projects in these areas, because it contained, built on a system of hospitals under one roof. What you're offering right now is not... [[The speaker is not enabled, it is not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1710	Honorable representative, Davor Bernardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1711	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I'll do it a little differently. At the time, the president of the HDZ Club said that for such a small state as Croatia there is no difference between external and internal debt and I agree with it. I agree with him, because it's ultimately a debt that we leave to our children, but I'm also worried. Because what's the debt? Debt is external, internal, debt is private or state. Debt is ultimately each and affects the economy in one way or another. It's good to be in charge of the economy developing, it's bad to be in charge of patching up holes. By reading the state budget, I'm recording this 11-and-a-half billion kuna debt. 8 and a half billion kunas of new government bonds, 3 billion on the domestic market, so growth in the internal debt. Well, of course there can't even be 8.5 billion connected to the domestic market because that would bring down our financial system. Five billion out. 2 billion kuna loans and more than a billion company sales. That's what the new assignment is. However, these plans alone show that institutions owned by the state, such as the Croatian highways, Croatian roads and the Croatian Privatisation Fund, totalled more than 4 billion employees. It's not 11.5, it's already 16. It's a debt. In this year, next year on interest payments and loans goes 9.3 billion. 23% higher on loans, 11% higher on interest. And it's a debt. A few days ago, Minister Milinovic said the total HZZO debt along with county hospitals was therefore close to 5 billion kuna. And it's a debt. However, this year’s external trade balance amounts to $13 billion. What does that mean? That means that the goods that arrive in Croatia, someone has to pay. It's something that tourists pay for when Spanish Mandarins come to our shores. But most of it is paid by these citizens. And how they pay for it. They're in charge outside to pay for the goods on the outside here. It's an external trade deficit. Since the last four years total debt, external debt, total debt has increased by 60% in the last four years and is over 87% of GDP. It's statistics. According to the Prime Minister, nothing can be intonated here. It's also increased internal debt. And the private sector is open to foreign sources of funding. And that's statistics. There's also nothing to intonate. And now, look at this example. If we take statistics and take that foreign debt, the total debt goes up by 20 billion kuna a year, that's 6% of GDP. 6% of total social growth in the Republic of Croatia. What does that mean? That our economic growth is all imported. We've imported people into my economic growth. We didn't create it, we imported it. And now according to projections, if we have 4.5% of economic growth in this year, inflation that doesn't promote competitiveness doesn't stimulate the economy, and at the same time the level of debt of 6% of GDP per year, that means that we're going to introduce more. All this is unfortunately a guarantee that in the coming year, citizens will surely find it more difficult to live. Compared to last year, half of them grew real wages. I'm afraid next year they'll stagnate if they don't. I'd like that to change in the years behind you. However, the data that cash credit growth has exceeded the growth of housing loans, which means that people can no longer buy apartments and have no money for them, they are too expensive, piles and some projects and stagniers. But that's why they're raising loans to spend, to spend on food, to beat the debt on one card with a debt on another card. It is public consumption and it is Croatian reality. And because of all that we have, and by registering and referring to the growth of the budget, which is very thin this year despite the duties, although a successful resource redistribution maneuver, because in addition to the new Law on the financing of units of local self-government, and statistics for the past year show that 2 billion kunas of profit tax remained more, i.e. The rest of the country is in the positive, although it's obvious that it's not enough. The second thing is a total item to encourage production. According to this picture book on page number, I don't even see which side, 12 and 13, was reduced by 17 million kuna compared to last year. And only production is a guarantee of the rate of economic growth. It's just domestic production. Nothing else. And seeing this and seeing the process of approaching the European Union, and the process of approaching the European Union costs, it is not cheap, structural reforms are necessary, investment in capital infrastructure is necessary, investment is also necessary in a stronger administration. We're going to step up that investment, I have a feeling we're going to be forced to save a lot of money next year. And this budget as it is today, precisely because of all these parameters, today it is he who will agree with some of the speakers stagnantly, but I fear and appeal to you respected MPs and colleagues and people from the ministry, to do what you can not do in the coming years to be rehabilitated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1712	Thank you. Honorable representative Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1713	Dear Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs! I will not burden my debate on the proposed budget with general views on whether the proposed budget is such that it enables the development of Croatia, or whether it is particularly social, whether it gives the basis for the necessary reforms or whether it is merely about meeting the needs and interests of the coalition government. Whether it will provide an opportunity for all parts of Croatia to develop evenly or still some parts will remain in the seal, i.e. whether this budget applies to some parts of Croatia motherly and to some motherly parts. And in the end, whether this budget will give local units a new development boost, or whether it is said by a respected colleague named Ronko "desant" on local self-government. So far, we have talked about this in more debates than my predecessors, distinguished MPs, and have expressed their opinions that I agree with most, especially those expressed by my colleagues in the SDP. By reading the proposed budget, each of us who come from local communities, from our election units, or to say from our election bases from which we voted and arrived at the Croatian Parliament primarily seek those elements of the budget that express investment in the areas from which we come. That's what I did. In the budget I first looked, then marked and analyzed the parts relating to Vukovar-Srijem County and especially to the town of Vinkovce which is here, recently and a large city. Respecting the debate of colleagues so far as well as all those MPs who will follow behind me, here I will focus my debate on only one particular problem. Namely, I will focus on an object of exceptional importance for the citizens of Vinkovac who has not been mentioned in any of the items of the state budget here, including those parts of extra budget users. It is, in effect, the construction of the eastern tour of the city of Vinkovac as the second phase of the construction of the entire tour of the city of Vinkovac, which is to be substituted by one part of the existing state road D55, which is now passing through the direct narrow area of the city of Vinkovac. The existing state road D55 enables the connection of the southern part of Vukovar-Srijem County or the city of Županje with the cities of Vukovar and Osijek and the northern part of Slavonia. This route is driven daily by an extremely large number of vehicles, especially heavy freight trucks driving from Hungary and Serbia to Bosnia and Herzegovina, respectively. Such traffic is an extremely high burden for local city roads but also an even greater burden for residents living along those roads, not to say that part of that traffic runs to say so through the Vinkow General Hospital. Namely, since it passes right next to it by sharing in half the parking space for all those who come to the hospital can be freely said to be passing through the Winking General Hospital. The D55 road, which is therefore part of the eastern bypass, has been marked as a significant road, both the 1997 Strategy of the Spatial Arrangement of the Republic of Croatia and the Programme of Spatial Arrangement of the Republic of Croatia from the 99th and the Transport Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia from the same year. The first phase of building the entire bypass, so-called The southern bypass as we know it in those areas was built three years ago and put into traffic. It significantly relieved that traffic through part of the city by confirming the need to continue to build the eastern bypass as quickly as possible. Unfortunately, however, there are no indications in this budget regarding the continuation of this construction. I must say that the construction of the eastern tour of the city of Vinkovac was a very exploited topic of pre-election talks, various interviews and promises of many politicians, primarily from the ruling party, both at the local level in Vinkovci and Vukovar-Srijem County and at the state level. All of them promised to complete in this term the project of the tour of the city of Vinkovac and Vukovar by connecting them with the highway and thus connecting the citizens of Vukovar-Srijem County with the rest of Croatia. Some of these people are MPs today, some are ministers, some are senior officials in the ministries, some are in the management structures of public companies. Today, however, by reading the proposal of the state budget and the financial plans of the extra- budget users, there is no indication of the allocation of funds to complete the Vinkowic bypass. Someone may say it's only the beginning of the term of office, but since it's a really serious investment that will certainly not be resolved in a year, two days. It is strange that, despite these noisy announcements, almost nothing is planned or planned, but in this budget. I personally think that it is only a pre-election promise which had a duration until 25 November 2007 and after that, like any paper, it can be clumped and thrown into the basket just like Minister Cobankovic's statement, I quote, "will bring a spatial plan at the first session of the next session of the Parliament, which will mean the official beginning of works on the Sava-Dunav channel." Expressed in a paid ad on page 9 of the Vukovar newspaper since 23 November 2007. Because of this, I believe that no one who understands the importance of this facility for the city of Vinkovce and the Vukovar-Srijem County would support the proposed budget, and I will not support it either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1714	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Petar Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1715	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I'd just make it right if it's never been done again in Vukovar-Srijem County for the last four years. It's been done more in a year than the coalition has done in four years. Take it that now there's a south bypass around the Vinkovci, that the preparations for the canal are ready, the canal will soon start digging. Take that, the fast road goes from Ilock to Vinkovci on the highway, a fast road from Vukovar, a tour of Vukovar somewhere around 3 billion is prepared for these jobs that are being done and plus four lanes go from Vinkovac to Županja the other two strips. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1716	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Goran Heffer.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1717	... I can hear myself like this. [[You can't hear the speaker, you can't hear it.]] I absolutely didn't say... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1718	Vice-President Zeljka Antunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1719	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, I'll start my presentation first with one commendation. This large pile of paper every year when budgeting is being adopted is increasing and contains an increasing number of information. And I think it's a good thing that this information is here, well that we have them on our radar even though they probably don't serve as well as they could because the expertise of the MPs to list all of these standardised items in line with some international standards is hard to read from it content and what is really important for us who decide on a political level. What I'm saying about this pile of paper opposite of commendation is I want to make a very clear note of these few pages of state budget reasoning and I think this is below each level and I think this is this year worse than ever before. This material shows indicators, indicators achieved in 2007. The projected indicators for 2008 from which this kind of macroeconomic framework based this budget should be read. But you can't see from this explanation what we've been talking about all day in this assembly. At least it's spoken from our opposition side. There is not much to be invested in and with which to invest and spend these planned 115.9 billion kuna. You can't see which part of these major national projects will be implemented this year, which in some future periods. It can't be seen that most of these projects are inherited and that their roots are being dragged back 4, 5, 6 or over, or over years. You can't see which of these projects are planned new, created in previous periods, and now they're coming into the execution stage. You can't see, you don't see those important strategic definitions that we can't read just from these numbers because simply without additional information or at least without basic information it's not possible. And therefore it is no wonder that on the other hand MPs see all the best in that budget, and on this side MPs see all the worst in that budget. Maybe it's true somewhere in the middle. But why can't we on either side come up with objective estimates of this budget? It's the government's fault that got us a bunch of paper, a bunch of information, a bunch of numbers, but it didn't give us clear goals. She didn't give us any clear strategic guidelines. She didn't actually tell us what she wanted. There is another document in which it writes, which is called an explanation of certain items of that particular part of the budget. When you take that part, you may find out something from some of the reasons. But from most of these arguments, and it's done to a deeper book like this, you won't actually know anything. So that you don't just stay on drying out your claims I'll give you an example. The budget shows that the issue item for the interior ministry is then reduced by 7% for employees in the ministry. I don't understand what's going on, is it meant to fire people there or is it, or is it, or is it something else? Is it meant to cut wages or why are you cutting that item now? So then I went to look into the explanation. And you know what it says in the explanation? It says that the planned amount was projected at the number of employees of 26 thousand 600. And now I, as a member of the 4th term, should spend one 5 days in the ministry to get information about how busy it was last year so that I can compare whether this reduction in employment in the Ministry of the Interior and even in the entire class of that ministry refers to people being fired, to reducing people, or to not knowing what else. The second thing I want to mention is my general impression of at least those projects or those infrastructure projects that I know a little more about and that I've been following for many years as the promises of the last government and then the pre-election promises of this new government. So now again some items but sub-financed items in this year's budget. It's about a number of announced and promised infrastructure projects that we've heard about, some of us have already attended twice; the beginning of work, and then some and three times the beginning of work, and when you look at the budget, you see that there are large projects but some ridiculous amounts. So again, it's not just on a general story from my head I've pulled some that remain in my memory. Finally, in the 11th month of last year, we were able to read large writings and very detailed how 100 million kuna was allocated to the University of Dubrovnik. We've been listening to those 100 million kunas for the past four years. But now at the end of the term, 100 million kunas were allocated. You know how much it's planned for here, for this project of building or renovating a building that was assigned to the university to bring it to its end. It's planned in the budget of 15 million kuna. Now what does that mean? Where's that 100 million kuna? It was said it was a loan. If a loan is raised then that credit must be visible in the budget as well. Then that 100 million kuna I think somewhere should be recognized. But this is 15 million kuna. I will mention the project, for example, the fast road Trogir-Omis. There's nothing here. And there's already work to be done as far as I know. I'll mention two tunnels. No more than two tunnels through Biokovo. Many of you respected colleagues know how many times the work started, how many times political speeches were held there, not the end of one, but the end of two tunnels. No, it's not. It's a few million dollars worth of change for a tunnel. And for the second one, more important and priority, the one for which the project documentation is completed, the one for which there are spatial plans arranged and everything arranged even seems to me to be high-level, therefore there is no kuna. Let me also mention something else that I find in this explanation as a big and important thing. Reduce the number of unemployed. It says there was a reduction in the number of unemployed last year at an absolute amount of 25 thousand 800 people. That's about it. However, it does not say, even in absolute terms that the number has increased, the number of employees. But the statistics are inexorable and she says last year that the number of unemployed is down by 0.3% at Croatia level, and even by 0.4% in the industry, even more. So we can blur ourselves out. We can fool ourselves. We can reduce the number of unemployed. But unfortunately, we're also running down the number of employees. And that's why I'm wondering where those three billion increases in additional pension contributions are coming from? I wonder where he is and why he's still hidden from the budget what needs to be paid on behalf of his debt to the old pensioners. I wonder what's going to happen to those pensioners who are going to fall on a beggar's stick tomorrow because they're not being executed and they're not doing an imaginary pension reform project and an increased isolation project for the second pillar. And that's why there's nothing left but to be against this budget. And I will be and agree with my colleague Mimivica who said that this budget might not have used that word, but in fact unable to solve all the accumulated problems that have been under the carpet for a long, long time.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1720	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Boris Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1721	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I have to correct my colleague Antunovic in connection with an incorrect claim that there is nothing from that other project. It's not a tunnel. Apparently you as the bearer down at your constituency don't even know what that project's called. This project isn't called a tunnel, it's called a roadway. That's one thing. Second. The project cannot even be in the state budget because it is still in agreement between highways and roads in the completion of the project's location permit and the development of the main project. When you get a building permit then you can talk about investing in investment in it. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1722	There is also a replica of the respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1723	Well, here's Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, so I want to look back at the debate and say a few specific things. As the Vice-President of this House instructed and looked critically at the projects and the unrealisation and lack of budgetary resources until the projects were carried out. I would like to point out that in a series of promises that were made during your term of office when you were Deputy Prime Minister for your Virovitica and your county, Virovitica-Podravska, unfortunately we did not see the bypass that was completed and secured funds in the budget at the time. We haven't seen a single project that could liven up. We haven't seen 350km of water treatment and gasification nets that we've done in the past four years. We didn't see a hospital building, or projects for a hospital building, or insurance funds until at the last minute after the 23.12 election, you made and signed an agreement for a viritative hospital. The hospital will be built. A tender for its construction will be launched these days as well as for the construction of a dessert bypass that will be completed by next year. Also the northern viritical bypasses and so I don't really know why you dare suspect something when you saw that your hometown was reborn. Then you ran away from him and went to another constituency to pick up votes there. The reasons are clear and visible. You haven't accomplished a single project. You didn't make any promises, so you had to change the place where you'd compete for the vote. Therefore, I ask you nicely to be constructive in acknowledging what has been done. Let us be creative in what is visible from this budget that it is actually still a budget that will serve in the development of all units of local self-government, our counties and the entire state of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1724	The reply to the replica honoured Vice-President of House Zeljka Antunovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1725	Dear colleague Djakic. Today during his discussion, counterpart Frano Matušić mentioned something. I can't remember in what context Alan Ford and some of the characters from Alan Ford and then he mentioned the character of Super Hik and you noticed me looking in your direction very sweetly laughing at this super Hik, so I'm now laughing sweetly at your explanations and getting my hometown involved with my criticism of a very real, very well-founded criticism of the story of projects and the constant delay and the allocation of funds, the planning of funds for these projects and the realization of these projects. For four years old, we're hearing new governments about one of these same projects. It's about projects that are ideally imagined before the government, imagined at a time of coalition and even before the coalition government. To this day, although some such as the viritative hospital you mentioned have been brought to a useful, up to the building permit, almost to the building permit you stopped them and not the government but exactly the political game of local self-government in which you play the role of gray eminence, unfortunately. And that's why my city, as far as it's progressed, my hometown where I no longer live for 30 years, as far as I've progressed, could still advance more if we managed it as much as this country I expect the government or the government that would have more responsibility, more understanding of the real implementation of the projects and less waste time on loose stories and pre-election propaganda.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1726	Now, don't look for Alan Ford now. Dear Representative Ranko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1727	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. I would first of all remind you of this little picture book. I suppose that since Minister Shuker has returned, perhaps he can explain to all of us how the MPs before they even came to vote on the budget of the Republic of Croatia have printed material, i.e. how clear it is that this is a printed edition of normal on the expense of taxpayers in which the Croatian Parliament's decision is perfectly prejudged, i.e. these representatives, and I don't think it would be right for this to be the material that is on our tables long before we decided on the budget. Another thing I think I can apply in a shotgun is maybe it's symbolically designed in a way that's probably a symbolic eight grade, so I guess that should make it easier for us to get a job in all of these situations. That means when we fight with all these piles of paper, it's probably in order that during that boring period that we've been left with at all that we can talk about the budget or get ready for it maybe easier work. But I'll forget about her, but I think the most important thing in her first grade is that the treasure is something that's very important. That's what I want to talk about. I will avoid these discussions although I must mention that I would like to be very specific in the situation of driving with projects carried out like Mrs Zeljka Antunović had the opportunity to come to the constituency with one road which you must all be proud of, with which we can all be pleased that we can reach the south of Croatia and promote the story and implementation of the budget in the previous states. As far as the budget is concerned, I think he's the mirror of the way we run it, and I'm just going to concentrate on the part that applies to what's most often not shown to us, and that's income. I want to talk about what has been neglected, that actually the state as a bad master refers to billions, to its property, and otherwise as a budget, there should have been a plan of government, a decision on how we're going to spend something that the families would say, the budget, and that we have rational incomes and so are expenditures. What I think is missing here, that is, what the picture is needed in the story, which is how we can, in the situation where we have state property since the 1997 Remuneration Act, where the state is the owner, where we have the leases of business space as we heard in the debate in the state audit, that we do not charge rent or any income there, that the gravel is being stolen wherever you want or in the center of Zagreb, if necessary, that all those mineral resources of the sea and the rest are not covered by concessions. I see space here so we may have a lot less problems about which hospital we should be building right now because I do know that this country behaves in a way that every citizen pays his health insurance neatly in it, and then we hear that we have free health insurance. None of us have free health insurance, so it hurts me when I have to watch humanitarian actions solve problems inside hospitals. If that's the way and style, I think it's another sign that we're actually missing out on the opportunity to get all that wealth, and I'm saying it's billions of estimated wealth that isn't really being mastered in the right way. The data are given not only for the MORH and its business premises, not only for that property which is literally owned by the State under the Law of Compensation and also for all those other natural resources that this country has. I'd just say in the other part, we have a very lush apparatus administration and we're certainly in a position to do a lot of things. Well, in that part, it's my request and I refrain from any evaluation of this budget because I'm sure he's certainly not a user, because that would be a denial, and there's no denying the continuity of bad policy here. Bad policies if you're a bad boss. If on behalf of the citizens you don't manage their wealth in a way that you turn your income into hospitals, health care, into everything else that goes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1728	Thank you. Dear representative Vesna Pusic. She's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative of Tonino Picula. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1729	Dear Mr. President, esteemed ministers, government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. The budget is always a political message to urinate et orbi. This is a message to every current government for Croatian citizens, domestic economy, foreign business partners, real and potential. German Chancellor Bizmark, who knew a lot about state affairs, once said that in discussions on the budget, there was always thunder of history, but also quite banal neglect. Minister Shuker today discovered how he treated himself this year, and I quote: "a conservative approach to budget making", and because of the exposure to negative movements in our environment and globally. In Croatia and the world, bad economic news has indeed come to light. Breaking the market for mortgage loans in America, oil and food prices explosions, stock index declines, awakened inflation. But how this is the result of the budget and the negative processes initiated by the government itself or the result of the lack of its proactive policy for predicting and preventing global and regional disasters. How much does a budget like this charge and how much it burdens the economy and the citizens? All of this should be joined by the fact of the start of action and the new coalition government. It is known that this type of government is more difficult to deal with deficits, especially in situations of unforeseen external shocks such as energy and food prices. The analysts say that not so important is the proportion of votes in parliament how many circumstances some government has created. The Government of the Republic of Croatia programme for the term of office of 2008 to 2011 and presented in this Assembly, sets of macroeconomic policy and state budgets in implementing measures, states that the Government will adopt a national strategic framework for development and pre-accession economic programme as a roof macroeconomic document defining guidelines for national and regional development. The colleagues and colleagues of the pre-accession economic programme are one of the key government documents, but it has been seriously denied by reality only a few months since adoption, from the figures foreseen for the real growth of the gross domestic product, the growth of inflation, the decline in personal consumption and the general government deficit. State spending still accounts for over 49% of GDP. Instead of the promised growth of 7% this year, inflation of almost 7% threatens us. One of the combined consequences of stagnation, wandering and changes in external investment risk assessments and financing collection in Croatia. This year 25 billion so-called. "Samurai" bond. The interest on how much I am informed will be 5.3% of GDP, but economic growth will certainly be smaller which will legally cause problems with the treasure. The statement by Minister Shuker that the story of corruption in Croatia is based on perception is one of the most recent sentences the finance minister has said today, representing not only figures but also the political platform of this year's budget. On the contrary, besides the domestic public, the European Commission does not experience corruption in our country as artistic as Minister Shuker, because due to the poor implementation of anti-corruption policy it has already blocked money from its pre-accession funds and it is serious 68m euros. The World Bank did not pay 150m euros from the PAL3 adjustment programme loan, as the Croatian government gave up the agreed points of the contract. Furthermore, regardless of whether unemployment is measured by a polling rate or administrative rate, the fact remains that we are one of the three countries with the lowest share of the working population in Europe's total population with Poland and Bulgaria. Unfortunately, our country is one of the countries in Europe that records the highest unemployment rate with high expertise. So, not only do we fail to educate young experts, but we lose them at a record speed. What about tax burdens? How is it supposed to ensure the competitiveness of not only companies but also Croatian citizens with 7 billion kunas in which all subsidies are covered? Are new factors of a successful economy being stimulated, above all marketing, quality, innovation crucial to strengthening overall competitiveness? Is the industrial heritage of Croatia encouraged? Do you invest in so-called. Virtual infrastructure? Are positive social indicators stimulated? I support the ambition of leading Croatian businessmen who demand that Croatia enter the club of 40 most competitive countries in the next three, four years. The best answer to that question, as well as to all economic problems, is, of course, strengthening the economy. The question is whether our economy, with the most passive government, can rise spontaneously about 4% annually, can in the future bear the increasing burden of unimplemented reforms in Croatia, especially with the problematic cost of agricultural policy, lack of direct foreign investment, lack of cooperation at the level of the labour employer, and insufficient protection of investors. My colleagues and colleagues, especially a significant issue that remains unreserved in today's debate and in the shadow of all other problems unresolved by this budget, are we going to create supplies, both goods and energy? In recent months, the public has been frequently informed of the state of the state of the state of the state of the supply office. Information that the state is damaged by as much as 435 million kunas through trade with 108 companies is seriously concerned, especially at a time when the government recognises high exposure of the domestic economy to external factors such as food and energy. The management even stopped asking for money because most of the companies in question were bankrupt. How much of the problem is being treated superficially and part of Prime Minister Sanader's speech at the award of this year's "Golden Kuns". Before last night, the prime minister said a rise in grain prices was caused by the fact that, for example, corn has become not only a food item, but also an energy. Since this is indeed the case, he is concerned that he has not seriously investigated the alarming shortage of grains from the storage of state goods reserves. Instead of 580 thousand tons, we have only 30 thousand tons which is 5% required. Let us be aware that we are leaving one longer period of macroeconomic stability. The 2008 budget envisions only 41 million kunas for the creation, renewal and use of stock stocks, with only 17% compared to last year's budget or significantly less than 243 million since then. What concerns us further is a major reduction in the funds for the purchase of over a billion kunas from 2006 to only 24 million kunas proposed for 2008. The lack of seriousness that addresses this strategic issue in the budget does not give me confidence in a document that is essential for the overall stability and prosperity of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1730	Thank you. Dear Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1731	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, dear fellow MPs. I hope that after the amendments to the announced Parliamentary Rules of Procedure, I will not have to welcome the Government first, then the President-in-Office of Parliament, and in that sense I hope that I have not made a mistake in this order. Although time is not common for discussion, I do not mean meteorological weather, but this midnight hour, the islanders and not something too strange. In fact, the off-season navigation schedule, especially on smaller remote islands, often puts us in a position to be working for this time of day, so in this sense my exposure to the island problem is even more credible at this time of day. But I did come in line, and according to the draft of this budget, many island projects will still not be in order in 2008, because most of the items relating to islands and island and island projects are reduced compared to the last budget, which surprised me. I will immediately say not all islands in the same position, not all islands have the same priorities, but what needs to be stressed are all the islands deserve to go forward, and therefore colleagues and colleagues of your slogan "Let's move on" islanders always understand as we go closer, we go closer to living and working on land, but this approximation of this budget will be slowed down, from the third speed we will transfer to the second and that Croatia wants to get closer to Europe at the fifth speed obviously someone planted such budget items that slow us down a little bit, at least on that road. And what item for the President's Office the government increased by 6% compared to last year was my orientation, some sort of orientation for proposing new amounts in the amendments to the budget I submitted. The adoption of these amendments would increase the amount of budget concerning the island of about 60 million kuna, which is precisely those of the popular 0.5 prominence from the total state budget. So let's start with what that's all about. Investment in the recovery and reconstruction of ports from 64 million this year has been reduced to 60 million. I don't know what the islanders and coastal citizens have resented, which is why they deserve this reduction, but there is no need to explain why ports are important for improving the quality of life on the islands. Better ports allow for the consent of larger, more modern and faster ships, and the faster ships, the less time it takes for us to travel to the mainland, and that is why we want to be closer, not further. After all, we had the last case that at the port of Lopar on Rab a ferry that started a new line damaged the port. Also, budgets for the reconstruction of the Jadrolinia passenger fleet remained the same as this year, and I propose this 6% boost, so for 2 million kuna, which would make up for a reduction, for example. The central state property management office because our audit report... why is not listed all the assets related to, say, apartments, so when they are listed and they find you new, some new apartments, then they could save those 2 million kunas and, let's say, be given to the restoration of the Adriatic fleet, which is important for most of you in summer, and for others important throughout the year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There goes one commendation in strengthening the item of the intervention heliodrom. Especially with the possibility of a night landing where 100 thousand kuna is increased to 1.2 million kuna. However, recent events in emergency medical intervention when it happened that one child was born in a helicopter, and fortunately it all worked out, likely affected multiple increases in the item, but I think it is one of the most basic conditions, so that there is a helicopter with night landing for emergency medical cases to increase the additional quality of life on the islands and I think that the amount of 2 and a half million kuna would be more appropriate not to overload the budget. While on air traffic, it should be pointed out that some of our islands have airports and are planning to be built on some. These more and more spatial plans on some islands that we have had the opportunity to hear, predict that there would be as many as 5 or 10 times as many people in these famous apartment and tourist areas. So, multiple more people than there are today, so here we are, let's say that these people and tourists could come a little bit easier to get that part for the island airports. Namely, he's already in the 2009 projection. The amount I'm proposing to be for 2008 is projected, but let's get ahead of ourselves, let's get a year faster, because usually these projections don't come true that way. After the ports, ships, helicopters and planes, we go back to the most basic, which is water. Although we are in the 21st century, some islands still have no water supply solved. And I suggest increasing that amount by more than 6% of the prime minister's, therefore, by 9 million kuna. I also know that some openings on islands and peninsulas have been celebrated with champagne several times. How it got a little dilated after that seems to me it would be bad if there was no water where there was champagne, that it was sort of a little bit and a little bit of a divorce. And now there are two amendments left. Capital investments have been reduced realistically by 8, and in fact nominally by 8 and realistically by 23 million kuna. I don't really know what the islanders resented the ruling furniture. You didn't do very well in the island elections, but you're not so bad that these items have to be reduced. Obviously, instead of the fifth gear, we have the fifth column to plant the prime minister and the government and reduce, I repeat this most important item for the island's development. Another important item is the promotion of regular maritime, passenger and high-speed lines. It should be said that in the past eight years, and so in the past four years, another commendation has been made to this, and also to the previous government, there have been positive developments in linking the island to the mainland. Here, in twenty seconds goes the last ferry that was introduced during your reign, which I thank you for, for the island of Brac. However, there is still no extension to go to other islands. For example, for the island of Hvar the night line goes through Drvenik-Sucuraj which is one hundred kilometers from Split. And I think that in 2008 we should establish the night line of Split-Old Town throughout the year. She's been going for the summer. Or another line for the island of Vis. So, that you can come to that island for work and go the same day, that you don't have to sleep over, because I think the current free time is to come and go about 45 minutes or an hour on the same day. I can say on behalf of the islanders that we do not measure ourselves with stagnation as Croatia goes forward, further, better or whatever you want as the budget grows. Our population's dropping. Budgetary assets actually fall, nominally stagnating on the most important items for the quality of life on islands. During the adoption of the Law on Government, some SDP advocates warned that the island administration was a place in the Ministry of Regional Development, but I personally felt that it was better to have it at the Ministry of the Sea because it was also a minister from the sea. But it is obvious that even in the Ministry of the Sea, the islands are not necessarily taken care of, as the coast is now added to that budgetary position. And of all the halls, only this one in Zadar is in the budget of this rather than any other ministry. I suppose it's because of the city where we come from most of the ministry's leadership structure. In fact, perhaps, in that case, you should really change the emphasis that the Ministry of the Sea is not our Ministry of the Sea, and given the time, us that the sea and that must will not be night. Some will say that the budget is developmental, some that it is not developmental, but my opinion is that from the island's position and the island's divided because it seems that we are increasingly separated from the coasts for which there is an increase in funds and for the islands is unfortunately reduced in this budget and this ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1732	Honorable representative Sonja Simunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1733	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Secretary of State! You know, I'd like to start off with a little dyspression, if you don't mind. I've been thinking all night about how I know the secretary of state, and now it's occurred to me that we're coming from the same city, from the same school, so here's just a short story about our town. I'd like to say hello, I just said hello to the man. I would like to welcome you in front of the poorest county in the Republic of Croatia. It is a county that was badly injured in the Homeland War and which the ruling furniture forgot and devastated its economy in well-known transformations and privatisations. After investing in the county and the capital of Istria, they apparently forgot it was on our country's map. Let me remind you, it's a county called Brod-Posavia County, and the city is called Slavonski Brod. It's a county that had giant Djuru Djakovic, Jasinje, Veteranska. It's a county that had over 10,000 euros in GDP per capita before the Homeland War. Today, unfortunately for us and the poorest parts of Romania have bigger GDPs than Brodo-Posaviski, which is poor and insufficient 3 thousand 785 euros. It is a county located on the road point, which is between four capitals, which has a water river and arable surface. It's a county with huge opportunities that are unfortunately not exploited. It's even amazing, maybe even insane that one such extraordinary potential is systematically ignored and suppressed. Why is that? I don't know. In my head, I can't find a single superfluous answer. I can't even imagine what kind of interest there must be, and it must be, that justifies such a maternal attitude of the state towards my county. I can't, but apparently some people can and they know very well what interests they are. It is very often mentioned equal development of Croatia. Apparently, many of our citizens wonder if it is sufficient to invest in Zadar billions of kuna in equal development, while Slavonski Brodu, a city of 70,000 inhabitants, is enough for a few million? Is it even development to build a Pelješki bridge for billions of kuna that will have less traffic than a spring crossing in Slavonski Brod? Apparently, some people think that Slavonski Brod doesn't need an overpass, even though more than 12,000 vehicles pass through it a day. Is it normal for state ministers to open various car washes in Slavonski Brod that receive a water bill of less than 100 kuna? Is that enough to wash the eyes of individuals? It's obvious, but for the residents of our county, it's not. To avoid confusion, I have no objection to construction and investment in other parts of Croatia, but I am absolutely against systematic ignoring of Slavonski Brod and Brod-Posavina County. A county that must be in a trading surplus, not in a deficit as it is today. A county that can feed Croatia, whether ironic or not, is huge, while the agricultural and processing industry slowly capitulates in front of import political lobbys. It's good for a citizen somewhere earlier in the daily newspaper to comment on the situation in our county saying, "Isn't politicians ashamed that we fell to the bottom?" Every time a variety of politicians come neatly in pre-election times to open various papers such as works in the west, on the eastern interstate, papers are opened on police administration, customs, not to mention, there is no end to this series. While we celebrate the opening anniversary of the construction site, various cynics are laughing at us and rightly so, because these sites only exist until the opening, and after that they become fictions, illusions that have not been realized and will not, because those who opened them simply do not care and feel the moral responsibility to begin to realize. The citizens remain only promises by which we are equal to the rest of Croatia. The only problem is that the realisation of the promised flat zero. It's not a wasteful promise of insane joy. In most of the Brod-Posavina County and even the town of Brod itself, basic infrastructure problems such as sewers and plumbing have not been solved without talking about building a irrigation system and various other projects that would improve agricultural production. Apparently, this county has only one perspective and that's a setback. Slavonski Brod sixth largest city in Croatia I repeat it systematically ignored. In Slavonski Brod we have the only university in Croatia that the state does not finance. Slavonski Brod has created all the preconditions for starting a high school but unfortunately it's been on hold for years and our kids are playing in vain. In Slavonski Brod we have the house of the Croatian brand Ivana Brlic-Mažuranić whose purchase of the state does not want to be included. There's always talk of a one-way course in schools, the state hasn't shown its desire to co-finance it. Have you forgotten that the Slavonic Ship received over 20,000 new inhabitants after the Homeland War? Have you forgotten that we all live in the same country regardless of political choices? Apparently, it is because Slavonski Brod is no longer a ship but a sunken boat that sinks deeper and deeper. You say you take care of Brod-Posavia County and take care of the boat. Please don't worry anymore because Slavonski Brod is a city case today. I don't see any major shift in this budget. So I sincerely hope that you fellow MPs on my left will pleasantly surprise me and support the amendments concerning Slavonski Brod and Brod-Posavina County not because they are amendments of the SDP but because they are amendments of people who truly deserve a better and more dignified life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1734	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected representative Mato Bilnjic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1735	Mr. Vice President, I'd like to correct a series of incorrect allegations from a colleague because I'm from that county. The fact is that we are one of the poorest counties and this government did not do it but the Homeland War, one third of the occupied area and along the Sava Borders River with Bosnia and Herzegovina. When it comes to water and draining, it's not the state budget, it's the town of Slavonski Brod, and we can say that in Slavonski Brod, the government is acting on SDP. In the last four years in Brod-Posavina County, although this is not enough, more funds have been invested than has been invested in the past 15 years, and the boat you colleagues have been talking about with it by the helms and be assured that there will be no overpass, plumbing and sewerage when you do not have a general urban plan of your city or, unfortunately, we are bringing it through the county institutions to do something in Slavonski Brod. First you have to get your city in line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1736	And another correction by the respected representative Susana Bilić Vardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1737	Dear Vice President, I am correcting, unfortunately, the incorrect quote of a colleague who is also from the town of Slavonski Brod from which I also come because I believe that when we present some facts here in front of this House, then we should first know the situation in our city, or in our county, and not this home and then tell the Croatian public, so there is no misinformation tonight. I'm correcting the incorrect quote that my colleague made, which is that the state advocates the work of schools on one shift and for what's in the ship doesn't care. That's not true. It is true that the state in the town of Slavonski Brod included building a new school in the World Bank because one elementary school works in three shifts and one high school, the High School of Medicine also works in three shifts. Both projects were accepted by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, but construction could not be achieved precisely for the reasons the colleague Biljić cited because the town of Slavonski Brod, where the SDP with the coalition in power was unable to bring about changes and additions to the general urban plan of the town of Brod.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1738	Thank you. Now respected representative Antun Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1739	Mr. President, Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I would like, first of all, to say that this is my first address to this House and this House, and in this context, to congratulate my colleagues from HDZ for forming the Government and, of course, promoting the first effect of that Government, which is the budget that has been adopted. Perhaps we should remind that this is the 17th year in which our independent Croatia exists and that there are various stages to say that the country has passed from independence, war, porn, major problems, the building of democracy, certain agreements and misunderstandings in joining a safe path to say so to the European Union and that perhaps now and especially after I say such engagement that this is how the coalition government should be formed this agreement to discuss the historic moment of Croatia today. However, it has nothing to do with it. We all know that budget data is cheap, but of course we all know that they're hiding behind them if they're hiding some real facts and events, ideas, perspectives. These perspectives are hard to read from numbers but then at least we try to hear them if they can be heard from those who interpret the agreement. We haven't heard anything from that. We have therefore not assessed this budget where we are today, or tomorrow 2008 and beyond, in relation to the key challenges that we are facing. We have no visions and we say we don't have them. We don't plan to grow because we can't. We don't talk about national resources and putting national resources into operation as a aspect of the national economy that we're going to be dealing with in some way with new challenges because we don't have that knowledge. We would have to find factors in some way that could identify Croatia according to the challenges it faces today, but we do not find them. We don't find them for a simple reason. We don't find them because between us who might or may not want much, so I guess the subjective factors of this agreement would want a lot of things and what they can stand is a big gap. There's a gap of clientelism, there's a gap of incompetence, there's a gap of ignorance or non-recognition of your own resources. There is a gap that ultimately results as we have heard by an unambitious budget and which then actually shifts the problem of an unambitious budget to an environment, to an external environment. So if the outer environment is what it is, then the budget should be terribly ambitious. He should recognize his own resources. It should be set towards mobilising political and other forces, economic forces and something to do. I haven't been able to find any action in this respect or any of them, so to speak, not one size to remind me of any of it, one to say from such ideas, one of those perspectives. Instead of industrial development, we have nothing. Instead of regional development, we have nothing. Instead of political construction, we also have nothing. We actually have a recapitulation of the improvement of the budget figures around the same time as the inflation we're going to. So what stagnation, perhaps in some standard situation of the country's development, could be acceptable. In the situation of this moment when we are actually conjecturing our future and towards the European Union it's actually completely gone and we're actually not wearing anything quite specific, we're actually swimming. We are, in fact, swimming as a customereleist part of those requirements that will be put before us by the European Union, and therefore we do not have a very specific opinion or a very specific reaction, nor do we oppose any active economic policy. The incompetence of economic policy is, of course, recognizable then and in culture. By listing these figures when it comes to culture, we can notice that so all the items are approximately slightly advanced but nothing here that would indicate recognition of some sense or some kind of flow or some orientation. However, even in such a situation, something is happening that is otherwise anomalous for this government who otherwise likes to consider itself conservative, which is that it is precisely for the protection of cultural goods that the budget falls again for 11 million kunas. So we still have, we have an anomaly that in 2003 this budget amounts to protection of cultural heritage of 120 million and now it is 130 million with 80 million monumental rents. That means you need to turn down 80 million. So these are some things we can't understand. I can't understand why investments in culture fall from 191 million to 170 million and so on. There's just no ambition. There's no idea what's important, how to go. At which points to achieve some sort of, some kind of excellence and then start something from it. So we're going to camp, so we're going to continue this existence as it's becoming less and less secure about itself and more exposed and all the effects and globalisation, the loss of identity because if we're not able to recognize after 17 years that we're just growing cultural heritage, our cultural heritage budget is one of the essential items, then I don't know what we're going to do? But we recognize in one little detail the essence of this, this agreement. That detail is, it might be interesting if some other members of the national minority are sitting here very characteristic. One of the items that has grown enormously is that I mean in the cost of cultural institutions the item of the company "Edit" which is otherwise d.o.o. and doesn't belong to a cultural institution. So using the Ministry of Culture, the "Edit" is funded, which is not a cultural institution, and it's like this: from a million kunas to 4.3 million kunas. Gentlemen, it's something we can easily recognize. Now, yeah, now that I don't call it that far because I don't want to confront those you're so good at but I wonder what the budget is for. Is the budget used in such a way that, in order to say, the detours of the holes, to strengthen loyalty, to actually go beyond the interest and to say the legal provisions because it can't be in the culture budget through the Ministry of Culture to finance institutions that don't operate in culture and that are not cultural institutions to actually charge and... in a way, it provides something completely different. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, I think, in fact, the clienteleistic attitude towards the factors of the opposition, according to its own ministries, towards the personnel who should have left this policy a long time ago, incompetence and the key to inability to go into an ambitious budget. You can't go into an ambitious budget and at the same time have mortgages covering all the traces of what we've been listening to in recent years and what it's like to say to fill the pages and our media. It's sad that we have a recovery budget, not a take-off budget. So 17 years in achieving our independence, we have one of the standard budgets as if we've become a standard country and we're not. That deficit will have to be explained once. We'll also have to explain to those who will come after us. Unfortunately, this budget is something that will be quite a big sign to say the resignation of the team that is currently leading Croatia. She has achieved her election success. The budget is her ID and delegation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1740	Thank you. It's Mr. Daniel Mondekar's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1741	The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister, the Secretary of State, the Honorable colleagues and fellow MPs from both the political right and the left because our centre died a little tonight my budget debate I would have started and ended my promise in a few minutes,... Not in a few minutes. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Half an hour then, all right. In a few minutes and a debate, I'd concentrate through a few examples. It means discussing the budget through a few examples in the field of higher education, science and cooperation with civil society organisations. The indisputable fact is that we have an increase in education. My first rhetorical question is how much this increase benefits our students who are going to the labour market this year with the title of first-timers. A new title they're looking for today to explain what they can do with that title. Unfortunately, many of these students will not be able to move on to graduate studies for various objective reasons and also means very objectively and for the sake of their own interests ask the question where they will work and how. The same question is asked by entrepreneurs. What can first graders do to you? I will remind you that the reform of higher education, so the Bologna Process has the responsibility of the Ministry of Science, which is tasked with educating, consulting and financing the reform. Right now, we can see that there is, for example, no incentive for learning outcome projects in this budget so that our entrepreneurs are immediately involved in the creation of high education programmes. I am now giving a well-intentioned recommendation to the government to find funds in the budget for incentives to hire first-timers. You'll need it more this year for sure. Furthermore, students are not the only ones in the dark about the very reform of higher education. The problem is with our administration that still has bad half information, but with many of our teachers. Just now I saw just a few days ago from a survey on information on the Bologna process where the deans say one thing, the other says professors of the university, the third says students, the fourth says the competent ministry. Our colleges still do not have the necessary administrative capacity for the Bologna Process. So, new offices that need to be funded in colleges, so start. It's also not in the budget. What I can tell you now is that as much as we talk about being in the second phase of the Bologna Process and that the reform progresses in 2010 when we first let's say that international inspections in Croatia will also threaten possible sanctions in the form of non-recognition of our diplomas on the European labour market. The same market Croatia seeks with its entry into the European Union. At that time and all the buildings we built, this Croatian Harvard will be dead capital if our diploma is not worth it because we have not implemented the reforms well. Furthermore, for a year we have been reading in the Mobility News and your children are students and you have read that there will be a story every semester of a second university and that now the Government is pressuring and entering the mobility community programmes for students and our scientists that cannot happen because our universities are not accredited for mobility. It's not in the budget either. So, helping universities be accredited for mobility. Turkey managed to accredit five universities this year. We're still at zero. Minister Primorac was very proud this morning and of the increase in funds, let's say he said himself about the Agency for Adult Education. That's good, just what he forgot to say the agency grew. So, almost doubled the number of employees in the last few months. It's not a question of doing a good job either. I'm personally following the agency's work. Preparations for and subsequent community programmes and to send a small questionnaire to the agency on lifelong education a significant part of the people from the agency would not be able to answer, and it is unfortunate that some of the people in that agency do not even know English. Wait a minute! It is the agencies that should be the elite of the state service, and they must open and pave the way for the same way as the Government of Croatia to enter the European Union faster. Science, it's also undeniable to have an increase. But where's it going and how's it going? So Croatia today and you probably know who you are in science has a large, large number of scientific projects that are funded with ridiculous amounts. I am personally an associate of a scientific project that has seven scientists working on and whose value is the project that the state gives 20 000 kuna a year. That's when you go to a meeting in Brookselle and he says talk to people who work on big... You tell projects that it's equivalent to 3,000 euros. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Everybody laughs at you. So the increase won't increase that amount either. The number of small projects with small amounts will increase further. The same big problem with scientific recruits is the lack of mentors in the system. So there's very few di for some new, modern subjects of two, three teachers have to help their recruit and often it's not enough. So we need more regular professors, more docents, that needs to be increased. And at the end of the day, civil society. From the budget of the Republic of Croatia, citizens' associations will receive significant funds through various tenders. What the Government did not use and needed the accumulated social capital of strong civil society organisations that are also well networked with different Brussels organisations and can help the Republic of Croatia join the European Union. We do not have in the budget a single kuna for projects of associations that have a goal means entering Croatian civil society organisations into different European networks as likely if you have heard European Citizen Activation... in which there are also many former Commissioners from the European Commission. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If it's not good for Croatia, then I really don't know what it is. Finally, I can tell you that these really simple examples of education and science show that even this year the budget is not aimed at making Croatia a land of knowledge, because the country of knowledge that you see here if you see a small number of projects, an insufficient number of professors, indeed a large flossula, and that at the end of the year, and this example of civil society shows one reflection of HDZ's thinking that the government alone can cross all the way to the European Union itself, which, unfortunately, is not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1742	Thank you. We have one replica. Mrs. Tatjana Šimac Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1743	Thank you very much, Mr. President. One short replica at this small time. In fact, I don't know whether or not you were talking about civil society, you didn't mention volunteering, volunteering as one of the forms of developing a socially sensitive society. In fact, volunteering is related to the civil society initiative, and in practice very often all of us who do so often find it impossible to identify both the number of associations and the number of volunteers in these associations. In fact, there is not one systematic recruitment of volunteers which can, of course, be improved by further development of a network of volunteer centres, and of course, the need for volunteers, i.e. for volunteering, exists both in the public sector and in private and in institutions of various kinds. When we look at the budget then we see that the separation for the development of volunteerism is just a million, something over a million kunas that actually speaks about the relationship to the values that volunteerism brings. There is no incentive, no clear strategy for valorisation of volunteerism. Here's just one piece of information from the UK that the value of volunteer work in 2005 was £50 million. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1744	Thank you. A colleague, ok. Here's an answer, but you'll show the table another time, you know, that I know that you want to answer. Here you go. ... No, no, everything's fine. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1745	I'm sorry. I'm really sorry. Volunteerism is an important thing. The state also needs much more attention to volunteerism, volunteers, volunteer centres, and I hope that somewhere in the budget, an item that could help youth associations to withdraw some more funding from the topic of volunteering within the European Union youth programme. Here's hoping, so much for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1746	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1747	Good morning. Are you tired? ... You didn't? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Then we can. Look at the wonders, it's just us. Mr. President, Mr. Minister, it's a little bit sad and sad, and it may well be talking about the government's relationship to this House, to all MPs and the positions and opposition that no longer sits here, there is only one minister who is... Ma'am, come on, I mean a little order. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You come in all the time, not like you. I didn't sit here until half one so you could interrupt me, right? Please pass me that time. It would be just fine if all the ministers were here and the Prime Minister was here, because if we can hold out, I think the government can hold this marathon session. Fortunately for me to say so, even though there is a commitment on Croatian television, few Minister Schuker has fixed this government composition here today. To use the football dictionary, here so the secretary of state doesn't get angry, but in this hierarchy he's the fourth league, nothing personal but I mean the level of power. But, behold, there are also no representatives of your coalition, or coalition parties. With one honorable exception from the representatives, one representative of the national minority. But I'm still going to go to the budget. In this section, so in this budget...... They are bright traditions, but they're a dead time of night before morning, aren't they? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] As far as the budget is concerned, I'd be begging you to really think a little bit that HDZ representatives are calming down. Regarding the budget itself, in the budget itself, although it was announced through the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme, but it was announced at every pre-election meeting, as well as with these talks that lasted a month and a half days to draw up and form a government, one of the most important points was decentralisation. Unfortunately, there is no letter D on decentralisation in this budget. One respected parliamentary representative said that this decentralisation could not be done overnight, on the contrary, it was done on 24 November 2006 or at the meeting of the Parliament when the Law on Amendments to the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government was also adopted. I believe that such a budget, which practically leads to further centralisation of the Republic of Croatia, such a budget cannot bring anything good to the units of local self-government, so cities and municipalities, as well as to the counties, and very quickly I say here, will go to the proposal to amend that law where it will be proposed that this part of the position to help offset the decentralised functions of 21% be added to the shares of the municipality, i.e. the city, and to be compensated through the profit tax. In this way, the state would not be a bit cut off, and a large part of the funds would go right towards the units of local self-government and counties. I don't mention here there's still VAT or any indication of a VAT reduction in this budget, although it's also announced. The budget itself was defined far earlier than it came to the constituency benches. One of the most important things in any case, and as an example, can be cited by this law recently passed by the Croatian Parliament, it is this guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which in the extreme line represents a particular scandal in financial business, that the Parliament empowers the Prime Minister to sign a guarantee four months ago and the contract was signed four months ago. Unfortunately, there is neither here today nor, apparently he went to sleep, nor the representative, or the parliamentary representative from the Croatian party of pensioners who is obviously satisfied with his status and his parliamentary salary, so he forgot that through this budget and the existing inflation these pensioners will get nothing new, or there will be no increase in pensions since inflation will eat them. I'm going to give an example and it's really not funny that a 62-year-old man who can get conditions for retirement, since he has 42 years of internship, who worked and therefore did his working life fairly, that his calculated pension of 642 kuna is. It's really not funny, it's sad that today is a liter of oil 12 kuna and 99, you can check it, and a kilo of bread 6 to 7 kuna. I am personally surprised by the statement made by Minister Shuker about the court case and by the verdict in which the city of Požega received about 23 million kuna, which must inevitably be found in this budget, I do not want to conclude here that our judiciary is not independent, I believe it must be independent and that any judgment must be respected, regardless of what it has won and which it has lost. I hope that in these late hours, and I hope that this part of the session is still carried by that HRTplus, so it may be sad that most Croatian citizens, therefore those who live here in the Republic of Croatia and who share the full fate of this country, cannot watch this debate. Unfortunately, I can't look at this debate either, or I can't watch it, but I don't believe they look at these hours and Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Vojvodina Croats, citizen Croats, and Croats around the world for whom, even though it was announced by HDZ during the diaspora election, at least a great help. I didn't see any kuna here to help our Croats in the diaspora. This budget, given the size itself and given all these general positions and given the very reasons, not to repeat everything my predecessors have said is quite and quite non-transparent and again, I hope this will not be such a case this time, allowing the funding of projects as we say in Slavonia by grandmother and uncles, therefore by political resemblance, not according to the projects and according to the building permits issued. I will just remind myself that in this budget, although the Secretary of State announced it, and that we were just considering this port of Ploče, there are four ports in Slavonia for which no kuna is provided here, neither Slavonski Brod nor Vukovar nor Ilok nor Osijek, unlike the construction of a sports hall in Osijek without 70 million kuna, this will only now be a confirmation of this construction where no contract has been signed, where the government has exclusively guaranteed on the basis of the future adoption of the budget. That's what I'd end up with, with just quoting the president.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1748	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1749	Let me do what two more sentences are for me. I'll quote the Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader and I will agree with him that this really is an extremely difficult time for Croatia and that the situation in Croatia is difficult and complex, I just hope that we will not look for internal and external enemies.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1750	Thank you. I mean, I don't know if he's transferring this HRTplus. If we don't transmit, we can convince the debate tomorrow. Petar Mlinarić, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1751	Mr. President, I will only correct two incorrect allegations. The first is that the Vukovar port has no perspective. Luka Vukovar has more traffic by the number of employed Rijeka ports and has exceeded a million tonnes of cargo. The other thing is, he said incorrectly that the secretary of state is the fourth league. He's this young, he's already a state secretary, and he's also the first League of Bundeslig Shuckers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1752	Mr. Ivan Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1753	Thank you, Mr. President. But precisely because of those who look at these tiny hours somewhere I don't know where they are, I welcome them. He needs you, I am obliged to correct you because you said you did not find any item related to support for Croats outside Croatia. Like what? The program of education of children of Croatian citizens abroad stands about 22 million kuna, then Croatian teaching abroad, then. That's the second item. Third, education of members of Croatian national minorities abroad, emigrants. The fourth, a programme to assist BiH in the system of science, education and sports and five other items in Bosnia and Herzegovina and a total of 15 items of support to Croats outside Croatia. If we were clear, I could take more if possible, but we are completely satisfied with this much, because neither Croatia can do more than it can. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1754	Thank you. Mr. Denesh Shaw. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1755	Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. ... Can I go on? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let me just say a few words, because I see we're really tired today, this is a tough session, but I'd like to say next. Reading these materials, I tried to find everything about Osijek-Baranja County and especially within that of our Baranja triangle, between the Danube, Drava and the Hungarian border. I, too, must conclude here and point to a specific problem when it comes to eastern Croatia, especially the County of Osijek and that Baranja triangle. Our local self-government population is linked to the subvial position of agriculture, the vast majority of them. In this respect, I have to point out one specificity here when Baranja municipalities are concerned, including that part of Beli Manastir, that we are in a special position because while in Croatia the state land, ornanica is of quality, 75% or 70% and in the prewar period and even after the war in private ownership, in our area, it was the social property of the user "Belje", and now it is state property. And these areas are in a certain way privatised or the state has concluded a long-term concession agreement with "Belje" for over 60% of these areas. And that concession, I have to say it, for example. the municipalities of the Princes of Vinograd where I am the head, which is the municipality of this matter, I could say this "richest", because it has the largest areas in state ownership, possibly in private over 9,000 hectares of which more than 7,000 are located in that concession. A concession is per hectare for the budget of the municipality of 165 kuna and a total of 330 on average. That means somewhere around a million kunas. And that's where all the municipalities lose the most means those who have bigger surfaces. However, I am saying this because, thanks to the understanding of the last few years, the Ministry of Finance and large systems such as Croatian Waters, Croatian Roads, Elektroprivreda in Baranja, regardless of the political option, has been done much of that understanding because these incomes that have been lost have been compensated and doubled and a major shift has been made in the construction of infrastructure facilities and our economy has begun to resuscitate. I honestly expect that this will continue in this year and in this forest of data that we have received, which I have studied. I think it's reserved in both these large systems and in the budget that it can continue. And not to be a dilemma to say, that's exactly why I support that budget, and I'm going to vote for it. And allow me, Mr. President, very briefly, only two more things to ask for it to be registered in the record. There are three border crossings in the Baranja area. Two are roadways, one is rail. I have to say that it's been ten years since peaceful reintegration and almost nothing but painting at those crossings has been done or very little. Especially critical is the transition in Batina which, of course, did not exist before the war, and that access road that we baptized on the tank road. And I pray that if there is not a single rebalancing or one reasonable time period for certain funds, because that's what I would say mildly, because we cannot let that border crossing look that way from the direction of Vojvodina. Here, that's one request. The second request, or suggestion, and I'm kind of surprised that in this budget, if I'm a good sum of these figures, about thirty million totals are scheduled for preschool education. I think it's a small amount because we're talking about elementary school, high school, there's been a lot of science and education here. I think preschool education deserves more because it's left to the municipalities. I, too, am truly sorry about those little children when I watch them prepare programs, who go to kindergartens and those in other villages where the municipality does not have opportunities. I think that should be done in perspective gradually one significant shift and provide certain resources to those environments, because we still have 50% more in the area of childcare not covered by preschool education. That's why I'm saying it, I always remember a saying by a famous French pedagogist, I've read it in my day as a student, I've never forgotten, who said this, give me a child for five years, and then in the first five years of life, then do whatever you want with him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1756	Thank you very much. IDS club, five minutes, Mr. Damir Cain. He's gone. He's losing his right. Final Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1757	... And at the time of the coalition government. [[Last-on speaker]] To be honest, one of the most peaceful discussions about the budget in the last seven, eight years. So, thank you very much for all the constructive discussions. There have been excellent economic analysts here today, and I even heard that we have frozen funds for PAL3 for which we have not yet started negotiations. But no matter what, thank you very much and... /Applause./ [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1758	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we continue our work at the 3rd session of the Croatian Parliament. I warmly welcome you all. I also welcome the members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You have received a review of the amendments to the proposal for a national budget for work at today's session in the boxes and you have been given the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the benches. The debate is closed. The table of amendments was delivered to you as I said in the boxes. The government of the Republic of Croatia submitted amendments after the deadline. You received the amendments at the session. First, we will comply with Article 166. The Rules of Procedure shall vote whether or not we will debate and vote on these amendments. Here you go, Mr. Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1760	Mr. President, I suggest on behalf of the club vote by hand because not everyone has the key.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1761	Thank you. So I'm putting on amendments that later arrived whether or not they would be discussed by the government. Who's in favour of this proposal? Thank you. Against? There isn't. The abstentions? I find that, unanimously with 108 amendments, it has been decided to discuss the government's amendment proposal. I ask the applicant's representative to explain the amendments. Minister of Finance Mr. Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1762	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So, with its amendment, the government proposes that the Ministry of Defence be redistributed to 2 million 495 thousand 624 kuna on the activities of "Fooding and modernising the necessary funds" and, above all, concerns interest payments. The next part of the amendment is in the ministry of foreign affairs and European integration. An increase in the ministry's total budget of 8.5 million kuna is proposed. For the same amount, a reduction in the budget of the Ministry of Finance is proposed at the rate of payment of interest. And these funds will be used for development cooperation totalling 2 million kuna and NATO activities totalling 4.5 million kuna, and the International Conference of Croatia summit 2 million kuna. It also proposes internal redistribution in the Ministry of Health and Social Care. Thus, it is proposed that the reduction of KBC's resources to Rebro open a new position for 3.5 million kunas for the management of the Department of Babies for KBC Zagreb at Petrova's locality. It is also proposed to open a new activity called "Ana Rukavina" Foundation tissue samples for 4.5 million kuna, with 4.5 million kuna in order to implement the "Ana Rukavina" Foundation. So it's a total change within the budget of just over 18 million kuna. And I suggest that the Parliament adopt the amendment of the Croatian government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1763	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On the basis of Article 166(2), only representatives of clubs may debate. Here you go. Mr. Representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1764	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In these amendments, one very positive action is the "Ana Rukavina" Foundation, which took place about a year and a half ago with Ana Rukavina's letter and the whole of Croatia stood behind the foundation, and I am glad that the SDP amendment that we have proposed that the state or government stand behind the project, that the project was accepted and that the government with its amendment stood behind the typing that will help not only the citizens of the Republic of Croatia but also the citizens of the world. This is why the SDP club will vote in favour of these amendments because it is one positive action despite everyone else we have witnessed these days. The SDP club will also stand behind the amendment because it stands behind citizens of the Republic of Croatia behind the "Ana Rukavina" Foundation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1765	Thank you very much. This is a government amendment, so clubs. Is there any other club you need to discuss this with me? There isn't. If I don't, I'm putting the government's amendment to the vote. Who's in? Thank you very much. Against? Thank you. The amendment was accepted by 121. So unanimous. Thank you very much. Now please prepare the table in which all the amendments are systematized. And we're going in a row. ... is the Minister of Finance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We move to the 1st Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club. I'm asking the Minister of Finance to manifest himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1766	The government does not accept this amendment for reasons why the SDP Club proposes that the funds contribute to a 16 billion-billion-dollar health insurance reduction by 4 billion. And that explains that this amount would be compensated by a capital transaction tax. Since a series of amendments to the law should be approached, and another thing, frankly, I don't know how much traffic should be on the Zagreb Stock Exchange in a year to collect 4 billion taxes on capital gains. But, then, yes, I don't owe it. Due to technical incompetence in a shorter period of time of this Act, and because of the situation in Croatian health, suggest at this time that the safe incomes of healthcare be reduced by 4 billion kuna would be extremely dangerous for the functioning of Croatian health care which is otherwise in a difficult situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1767	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1768	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We agree that this is a major job, but simply by accepting the amendments you would still want to try to change the tax policy of the Republic of Croatia in this year. Tax policy which we would like to show is that part of the citizens living in Croatia must be participated in the means to treat all Croatian citizens with the treatment of all Croatian citizens. At the same time in this amendment, you would ensure the possibility to raise the net salary of workers of the Republic of Croatia and given the very high inflation rate you planned in the State budget. And I'd say, what's been achieved in the last two months about price hikes. Therefore, price increases go faster than wages, workers from month to month can buy goods and live harder. And this amendment would allow me at least to stop real wage growth and the possibility of steaming up that high inflation. Therefore, the desire to tax those who live easier in the Republic of Croatia, because this requires health care. And on the other hand, caring for the worker, that meant this amendment. We regret on behalf of the SDP that you have not shown that you can try to change tax policy and care for both health care and worker this year. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1769	Thank you. Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 2 to MP Davorko Vidovic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1770	The government does not accept for reasons why the reconstruction and reconstruction of the ZAVNOH building in Topusko will be resolved according to the proposal of the Committee, which will be appointed to this end by the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1771	Mr Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1772	I must indeed quote, six months ago, now the President of the Croatian Parliament, who said that the Croatian Parliament will set up a Building Reconstruction Committee in Topusco, which held the 44rd session of ZAVNOH, and the Parliament has tasked the Government to ensure measures to improve the material position of the fighters from II. The World War, of course, and the construction and restoration of this facility. I'm surprised you don't accept this amendment. And I take it a little bit like a government shower to the President of the Parliament. Convinced that all of us here will protect the dignity and what the President of the Parliament made public a few months ago, I am asking for a vote on this amendment more than Mr. Ministers ask for 500, 600, I am not saying that this should be a million kuna to start building and rebuilding this ZAVNOH facility, which we all recognise as the general cultural and historical good of the Croatian people and of this state. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1773	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 3rd Amendment, Representative Ranko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1774	The government doesn't accept for the simple reason that in the assembly... there are all technical conditions for the use of a portable computer. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And also in a series of spaces it is possible for MPs to use the computer.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1775	Mr. Ranko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1776	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, honored members of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. Either the minister didn't understand me, or the government didn't really understand, the goal was to get all these piles of paper that we have on the table replaced in a way that actually every MP would be in a position to have a computer in front of him, with which we would actually be much easier and in a much more efficient way in order to follow the meetings of the Parliament. But I understand why you don't do it because you don't do it to the government or the government, even though you have all these accounts there, so it's no wonder that you're refusing this initiative now, that instead of every time people from the Parliament come in here, they bring in a Croatian tree visited. I think that this should change and that this amendment should be understood to that end. I'm still asking for a vote on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1777	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Fifth amendment. Excuse me. 4th Amendment of Representative Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1778	The government doesn't accept. For the reason that video surveillance and protection system of a protected facility are constructed according to the highest safety and professional standards and thus would be entered into the privacy of employees and restaurant users.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1779	Mr. Representative Franic, as far as I can tell. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 5th Amendment, Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1780	The Government does not accept, for the reasons that, in view of the resources invested and in the Constitutional Court in previous years and which are provided for in this budget, it will be sufficient for professional training of employees.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1781	Mrs. Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1782	I am sorry that I do not understand the education, the systematic education of judicial officials, and so do the judges of the Constitutional Court and of the staff, I am primarily referring to advisers in the Constitutional Court who determine most of the work. It is also important to know that in the Constitutional Court, it is unfortunately more and more burdened with new cases every year, that the term of the Constitutional Judge is 8 years, which means that new constitutional judges are coming, that new advisers are coming, and it is certain that it should not be known whether or not the Constitutional Court itself is working well to know that this amount of 436000 kuna per year is not enough in any case for this purpose, especially as we have announced a major reform. So, in the fifth speed of judicial reform, and here although the Constitutional Court is not part of a regular trial but in any case it is the first to be called to protect human rights, fundamental freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and therefore, it is saddened that such a small amount is approved for the education of employees and judges of the Constitutional Court. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1783	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The sixth amendment also serves as representatives of Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1784	The government does not accept for the simple reason that the implementation of the National Programme for the Prevention of Corruption is in several positions by different ministries participating in the national programme and we believe that the projected funds in this position and in all other positions will be fully sufficient for this part of the issue. And if there's a chance of a waste of funds, there's still liquid reserves.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1785	Here you are, Mrs. Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1786	You see, in this item for the implementation of the National Corruption Prevention Programme, and these are primarily promotional and information services, the amount of 27500 kuna has been approved. It is true that the anti-corruption programme is being conducted through different ministries. But please, then we need to abolish this item, unite those resources and forces. Because what can be done for 27500 kuna? And the promotion and information of the public is very important, because it is important to change the social climate, and then the fight, so all those funds that are specifically targeted for action then will need less resources on those items. This is a very important and extensive job and I do not understand that only 27500 kuna is granted for this purpose. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1787	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The seventh amendment of Mr. Zlatko Koračević's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1788	This amendment cannot be accepted by the Government for several reasons. The first and basic thing is that the PHARE programme cannot be changed retroactively, and as you know the European Commission is also because the contracts were signed with the European Commission 2 years ago. Also, the PHARE programme 2005 and 2006 required legalisation by the European Commission for Roma settlements to be used. And since this settlement that you're talking about is not legalized, it could not have entered these projects, which does not mean that the next projects that the government will negotiate for this programme will not be allocated to it. But at this point, since you are talking directly about the funds provided in the PHARE programme, you cannot change the contracts already signed with international institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1789	Thank you. Mr. Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1790	Mr. Minister, this village has been legalized and this same amendment has been a year ago for the 2007 budget, and this very argument has been rejected by the amendment. Meanwhile, the municipalities of Cestica and the municipalities of Petrianac have legalized the settlement and life conditions are really minimal in this settlement. The only thing that has been done is made of the possible funds of the Varazdin County and the resources of the particle community, which is that the minimum conditions are made. The conditions for preschool education have been organised. However, the problem remains still from drinking water and beyond. Therefore, I am asking for a vote on this amendment, and I believe that representatives of national minorities will also support this amendment and we will create conditions for these people in the village of Strmec.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1791	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The eighth amendment of MPs to Ms. Ingrid Antičević Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1792	The government does not accept for reasons because we believe that the proposed funds are sufficient for the settlement of commitments related to the National Committee for the Prevention and Trade of Human beings.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1793	Thank you. Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1794	The fact is that these funds are not enough and even you know that these funds are not enough and you can say that any amendment is considered by the Government. But that should explain how you think it is, and if it is an undisputed fact, then all the reports indicate that human trafficking, and especially children, is on the rise in the entire region, as well as in our country. That's what all the reports have shown, and that's why the amount proposed is the one that I propose with my 5 million kuna amendment, the minimum amount that something can be done specifically and more because of the increased volume of jobs because human trafficking is growing. That's what they are to you, and I repeat, all the reports show. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1795	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. The re-amendment of Madam Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1796	Since this is about making a visual identity to mark the day of protection at work, we believe that the proposed funds are sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1797	Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1798	This item does not bear the title or title of making any emblem or significance, but these are the resources to be provided to the National Work Protection Council. So that's the whole range of jobs and this item has an amount of 11,000 kuna. No meaningful work can be done by the National Council. So, this amount of EUR 200000 is a minimum, and it is also an undeniable fact that no one can deny that unfortunately the number of injured at work is due to reduced resources and the care of the entire employee society because they are simply happy to work, and simple protection at work is considered a luxury and therefore I say that something should be changed because later precisely because of the injury to the work of the whole society and the state above all, and that I am not saying that the injured one has very much damage. For this reason, this amount of EUR 200000 would be the minimum in this item of meaningful means that would allow such meaningful work. That's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1799	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 10 amendments by Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1800	The government does not accept for the reason that the planned funds are intended to implement the education of scalers at the level of individual counties and on the basis of the proposals collected by the County Economic and Social Councils.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1801	Thank you. Here you are, Mrs. Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1802	Alternative way of resolving the dispute, i.e. the peaceful settlement of disputes was made possible by the 2003 law. Unfortunately, here are the five years that no shifts have been made in this regard. I believe that this kind of greater interest in the county has not been, but the government and the state cannot look back on it but they just have to be a promoter simply such that people are stimulated as much as possible and even find one adequate and changes in the law to use this model, or several models that the 2003 law has made possible. Not to mention how much that would relieve the courts, how much of it would benefit not only those who are in dispute but also the whole society, and that eventually gives birth and some later and future business relations because the peaceful way of resolving the dispute is far better than a judicial decision that then in some way blocks things, not to mention all those burdens on the courts of all kinds and all levels. That is why this amount of 130 thousand kunas that would go right into peace education in individual labour disputes cannot, it will figure here and there but systematically, therefore one strong action in this sense, which is the basis of judicial reform and dispensation of courts, and not only the abolition of courts and the replacement of tables. So this amount of 500 thousand kuna, or half a million kuna, is a minimum indeed to do something in this sense, and you would benefit from all of that and all of us together, the whole society, the state would save if some more money was put into effort to settle disputes peacefully. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1803	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 11th amendment also was by Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1804	The government does not accept for the simple reason that we believe that the funds provided are sufficient for professional training of employees.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1805	Thank you. Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1806	If you plan to systematically perfect employees who are dealing with this very difficult job, so suppressing drug abuse, then the amount of 50 thousand kunas please, and for our poor country indeed is below every minimum. There are no meaningful actions, it's just that some of us have an item to do, but it's no use. Then you'd better cancel and save these 50,000 kunas. 300 thousand kuna is a minimum of some kind of action and continuous, but also very limited education. With 50 thousand kunas, you know there's nothing you can do. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1807	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 12 amendments by Ms. Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1808	The government refuses for two reasons. One thing is that we believe that the proposed funds are enough to carry out those activities, and another thing that the position from which they should be removed, which is the basic activities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, would endanger the regular business of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1809	Thank you. Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1810	It is interesting that you say this position would endanger the business of the Republic of Croatia. I wrote an amendment that for the amount of increased, requested increase of funds for the government's team. If we cut down on your coffees, your juices, your lunches, you think that would put the government's business at risk, then I really don't know. But I'm talking about priorities here. For the government team, so without the ministries, you predicted a million-and-a-half kuna. A million and 500 thousand kuna. On the other hand, 225 thousand kuna are planned for education in the area of drug abuse prevention in this country, and you are reducing these drugs by more than 30% in this budget. When you were also an agent, Mrs. Kosor, when she was a representative, you insisted on increasing the means to combat drug abuse. I hope that my colleagues will also support this amendment, because I think it's embarrassing, we'll get reports here on the implementation of the drug control programme, we'll see an increase in the number of addicts, and we're constantly reducing the means to control the intoxicating drugs. 225 thousand kuna for drug control, and a million and a half thousand kuna, 500 thousand kuna for the government's team. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1811	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. We move to the area of the Ministry of Finance, 13 amendments by MPs Dragica Zgrebec and Nadica Jelas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1812	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the reason why the Mursko Centre border crossing at the border of the Republic of Croatia and Slovenia built the Ministry of Finance to change the location where this new proposal should be, where the new border crossing should be, should launch an initiative through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and naturally contact the neighbouring country in order to eventually determine a new place of border crossing.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1813	Thank you. Mrs. Representative, Dear Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1814	This is just the fifth time I've given an initiative to solve the border crossing problem with Slovenia in the Marine Centre. You don't expect MPs to do that. It's a government function, and I think the government must launch such an initiative. The border crossing is located in the heart of the town on the main square, located on the D209 road. Since in Slovenia, the border crossing that was across the border crossing in Croatia was moved to Peteshovec, the necessary infrastructure was built and is now expected instead of an annual traffic of 60,000 freight vehicles far greater traffic, as the border traffic from Slovenia will all be rerouted, so from Slovenia and Hungary to this border crossing. The traffic flow in the Murski center is almost zero, the old bridge on the Mura has only two strips, which is damaged in the last flood, the Vice President saw the situation and the almost unsustainable situation in the town of Murski center. I ask you that if you need some initiatives to work, the city has also addressed both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Government, and let after five attempts of amendments through the state budget this is an initiative to change the place of the Mursko Centre border crossing. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1815	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 14th Amendment of Representativeplatmir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1816	The government does not accept those funds as planned for municipalities, cities, counties that have taken over decentralised functions on the basis of a proposal for a decision and on the basis of a proposal for a decision on minimum financial standards and a proposal for a regulation on how to calculate the amount between aiding the alignment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for 2008. Therefore, given those units which, without that additional share of income tax, are not able to transfer decentralised functions to the level established by that decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1817	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1818	Well, I'm surprised, for the fifth time, the minister refuses that amendment. I suggest every year out to increase that item. At the end when we get to the State Budget Implementation Report, then that item is about as much as I suggested in the amendment. And I am convinced that once we get the 2008 Budget Report, the current aid item within the state will be a million and 800 thousand kuna. And I'm really surprised why you don't confess once and accept that amendment. This is in line with the government's programme that the government has understood the Parliament and adopted by the Parliament. But this is the same with the need for the cost of decentralised functions that we currently have in Croatia. We had a student strike in Vukovar ten days ago, two, three days ago, we had a student strike in Bela Manastir because in a state of knowledge, in a country where high school is for everyone, their parents don't have the money to pay bus tickets to go to that high school. This is an item that provides money to allow these parents and children to go to school, to allow other decentralised functions to simply respond to everything that will happen this year, which is an increase in electricity prices, a rise in gas prices and everything else. And I'm convinced that in the end we'll both be on this million and 800 thousand kunas, the billion and 800 million I'm asking for, only you, unfortunately, never, ever want to admit it when we're making a budget. That's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1819	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 15th representative of Mr. Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1820	The government does not accept because the funds are planned in accordance with economic, fiscal policy for the period 2008-2010. And compared to the implementation of the programme submitted for those intentions, paragraph 2008 increased by 16.5%, so four times more than was foreseen to increase the fiscal projection from 2008 to 2010.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1821	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1822	Given that the Croatian State must take care of all Croatians outside Croatia, I believe these funds are insufficient and for this very reason I have asked for an increase in these funds. And given that five MPs also come from Bosnia and Herzegovina, or so on. Diaspora, I would ask for a secret vote, because I don't know what these keys and buttons are for.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1823	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 16th representative of Mr. Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1824	The government does not accept for reasons why the funds are planned at the position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration for activities to assist national minorities abroad in the amount of $1 million and €500,000 and for student scholarship activities of €3 million.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1825	Mr. Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1826	I believe that this amount, which is not visible further in the Croatian budget, is extremely small, and since almost 5 million Croats live outside the Republic of Croatia, I believe that this amount of 20 million kuna would further help all Croats outside of Croatia, so in Vojvodina, Serbia, Montenegro, Slovenia, Macedonia, Hungary, Italy, Austria, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Romania, Bulgaria, especially these other overseas countries. And you had the opportunity to see during the election campaign that even one Diego who doesn't even know where Croatia was in these elections and voted in the elections for the Republic of Croatia. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1827	Thank you. Is that so for this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 17th Amendment of Mr. Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1828	The government doesn't accept the same explanation. Since the amendment is identical to the amendment of MP Vinkovic only because the amount is different, the government does not accept this amendment with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1829	Thank you. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1830	No, you've surprised me very much now. At its 57th session in 2003, Racan's government introduced this item into its budget. 10 million kuna for financing educational, cultural, scientific and sports programmes of Croatian minorities in Serbia, Montenegro, Macedonia, Slovenia, Hungary, Italy, etc. I've been in the budget for five years, because when you came to power in 2003, you immediately threw it out of that budget. I've been trying to convince you for five years that for these Croats in other countries you should single out at least as much as the Racan government you've been attacking so much. Five years you've been saying no. I understand that you are helping the Croats in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina with 27 million and 300 thousand kuna. That's understandable. But why share Croats in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina with Croats living in other countries? Why help only one person and not help others? That logic I can't understand. Okay. I know that Croats in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina traditionally vote for HDZ and live and dead for HDZ candidates. But these are our countrymen, too. Why punish them? Therefore, I ask you once again to consider this decision of yours, to accept this amendment, to finally help at least those people as much as it is... Racan's government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1831	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 18th Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1832	The government does not accept for the reason that, at the position of the Ministry of Finance, the tax administration planned, in its financial plan, the activities of the executive administration and administration for the services of the current investment maintenance and also the facilities for the purposes of the tax administration, to inform the same amount of 72 million kuna and, with the participation of the Istrian County, I believe that this administrative building can be arranged because it will not only be used by the tax administration but will be used by some county services.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1833	Thank you. On behalf of the club IDS Mr. Representative Dr. Marin Brkarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1834	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. We would insist that these funds be approved in the budget of 15 million kuna for reasons of this building of the Admiralty or former command of the northern Adriatic, which is located in the city of Pula, would now be a building where both the public services and the services of the district self-government would be found together, meaning tax administration, customs administration, protection and rescue services and the Istrian County itself. The indicative price of this is 30 million kuna and I think it would be necessary to approve these 15 million kunas. Please vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1835	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 19th Amendment of Mr Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1836	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept for the reason that the final proposal for a state budget for 2008 provides for an increase in income tax and profit tax for areas of special state concern and mountainous areas to come from the state budget rather than from the budget of those units of local self-government. Also in the proposal for a state budget for the Varazdin County, funding for aid is planned, which is the difference between the aid that the county would achieve on the basis of legal criteria and the return of income tax to citizens who return to the burden of income belonging to the state budget and the funds available for that purpose in 2008.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1837	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1838	Mr. Minister, I believe this conditionally stated by decentralisation or better said or more precisely by redistribution and you know that through the state profit tax she has earned and it is also known that the Varazdin County has lost or has reduced revenues for a million-and-a-half kuna. And that is exactly why my amendment is submitted, and this position in the budget is in the function of settling those positions where local and regional administration is damaged. We're looking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1839	Who is for this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 20th Amendment of Mr. Zdravko Ronk's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1840	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept for the reason that the final proposal provides for aid to the counties and municipalities, and the final proposal for a state budget also provides for funds for Požega-slavonska County to be planned by means of aid which would be the difference between the aid that the County would achieve on the basis of legal criteria and the return of income tax on citizens returning to the burden of income belonging to the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1841	Mr. Representative Zdravko Ronko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1842	Mr. Minister, you know that the damage in Požega-Slavon County... A million kunas without harm in health care, you know that by the solution of the Trade Court and the executive decisions we've taken over 112 million right now, we've divided it into twenty-three years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This year comes to us by the basis of these solutions 17.8 million kuna. That's just as much as our county's original income, so without a flow of resources from the state budget, there's no way we're not going to collapse and not have a financial breakdown. I believe that you have no such intention and therefore I ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the MPs to vote in favour of this amendment because this is exactly what we are saving Požega-Slavon County as a Croatian county, we are saving from this breakdown that is already very long and long suffering from the citizens of our county. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1843	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 21st Amendment of the same agent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1844	The government doesn't accept why we can't prejudge the decisions of the judicial authorities. And secondly, this amendment still deserves a slightly broader explanation. So the assessment of the value of the tax administration building from the commission is 11 million 770 thousand kuna plus parking lots of 873 thousand kuna, meaning 12 million and 644 thousand kuna. At the same time, the tax administration invested 2 million 324 thousand kuna in the building from 97 to 2002 and still made some sales-based facilities. When the contract was concluded, all these facts were not taken into account, neither the assessment of the tax administration nor what the Ministry of Finance invested in the building. The second thing, I said about this during the debate on the government's budget at the head of the late Mr. Racan made a correct decision that this contract must be implemented by 31.12.2003. Why wasn't that contract done to me was not known because I wasn't the finance minister at the time. And so, as there is one verdict, the State's Attorney's Office represents the interests of the Republic of Croatia, and I highly doubt that any such contract would have been concluded by any of the participants in the signing of this contract that it was about the purchase of their own property.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1845	Mr. Representative Zdravko Ronko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1846	A powerful and executive verdict is not commented on by me. It is quite evident that the Ministry of Finance has lost both disputes through lawsuits and countersuits, so it is both legal and executive and this game you have called upon and the rules that do not exist, which are outdated, which are yet to come has resulted from a circus of 9 million kuna interest and I ask that this be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1847	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Mr. Representative Zdravko Ronko 22nd Amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1848	It's the 22nd Amendment. Oh, yeah, practically for the 22nd Amendment is the same argument because it's a 14 million kuna amount. This is about interest, and this is about the principal. Therefore, the exact same explanation. And I repeat that the participants of this agreement were selling and buying their assets would certainly not have ignored the assessment of the tax administration, would not have ignored the investment they made in the past year and I guarantee that they would never have concluded such a contract if it were their private property. And this was about taxes from the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, it was about some potential commitments that came to the town of Požega on charge, it was about moments when it was obvious that the elections were lost, so let's break up. But I repeat, the Government headed with Mr. Racan has made a correct decision that this legal case should be completed by 31. 12. In 2003. Why didn't the Minister of Finance and the head of the tax administration who was responsible for signing this didn't execute him, I don't know. Secondly, the Ministry of Finance is not in charge of this process, this procedure is run by the State Attorney's Office, which is otherwise represented by the Republic of Croatia. The interests of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1849	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zdravko Ronko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1850	This contract is closed at 14 million. After negotiations for more than a year, based on an assessment of the tax administration and the basis of an independent expert assessment. Of course, I feel it is necessary to vote today in another direction, which is that the government is placed within the framework of the executive authority and is bound by this vote for the amendment to respect the decisions of the judicial, basic judicial authorities. Please vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1851	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Mr. Gordana Sobol's 23rd Amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1852	The government does not accept because the funds for the division of 122 lawyers for gender equality have increased by 9.3% compared to 2007. And within this programme, covering the area of all counties and cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, the funds for intellectual and personal services related to 2007 increased by 26.4%. It's a normal thing that these are activities that always require bigger resources. But when we talk about the context of planning the total resources of the State budget, then we try to, as the means go, to make all the funds grow in some frameworks that are foreseen by fiscal projections.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1853	Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1854	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. I am indeed and will later see this through the other ministries proposed almost so symbolic amounts in different ministries to implement national policies to promote gender equality. Because, Mr. Minister, what you're doing, your ministry and all the national policies with some deadlines written here cannot be done by a lawyer for gender equality. So please, in national policy to promote gender equality, the Ministry of Finance writes like this among other things. "The introduction of tax reliefs for self-employed women and women of entrepreneurs will be considered. Women employed in agricultural activities and crafts.". And it also says this: "The introduction of tax reliefs will be considered by amending profit tax laws for the organisation of education and education of pre-school children in companies and business organisations for the purpose of raising, education of children employed in accordance with investment and the organisational costs of companies." It's both the 2008 deadline for one and the other. And he writes nicely in charge of conducting the Ministry of Finance. I am aware that, in this case, it is the measures that your Ministry should consider. Well, even for that observation, you need to have some financial resources meant for that. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1855	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. We're moving on to the Department of Defense. Will you, who? Minister Branko Vukelic. Here you go. The 24th Amendment of MP Mirela Holy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1856	The government does not accept the amendment for the reason that this year's budget, which in the position of the Coast Guard, which, at the position of equipment, modernises the Armed Forces, provides a total of 95 million kunas that are targeted for coast guard purposes. That's exactly 236% more than what was in the 2007 Coast Guard budget. And through these projected resources, as in the Budget and all tasks proposed, all costs that are important for the Coast Guard will therefore be possible to implement with the intended resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1857	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1858	Dear Ministers, according to the Coast Guard experts' estimates and the full equipment of the Coast Guard requires about 800 million kuna. Since this is the first year of implementation of the Coast Guard Act, I think the Government of the Republic of Croatia should show its commitment to this and support this amendment. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1859	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 25th representative of Mrs. Gordane Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1860	The government does not accept this amendment. This is about the symbolic funds of 100 thousand kuna for the implementation of the national policy programme to promote gender equality. This Ministry through its other activities and positions has so far spent and significantly higher resources and we support a strong programme and implementation of national policies to promote gender equality. More so, reminding all of us that this year and year when a mandatory military deadline is suspended, when we are going to volunteer for military service, when in this voluntary service, the possibility of serving and women is open. Therefore, there are a lot of activities and much more resources will be spent through various other programmes and projects when it comes to this very National policy to promote gender equality. Therefore, we do not feel that it is necessary to go in this symbolic way to position a specific position with that name.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1861	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1862	Well, you see, Mr. Minister, I think it is necessary, even symbolicly, to point out that all ministries are obliged to implement what is written to them in one policy this House won when it comes to this policy a little less than two years ago. Among other things, your Ministry has certain responsibilities in this policy concerning the implementation of Resolution 13 25 of the United Nations Security Council and the obligations behind the Beijing Platform. As well as for example. Among other things, the introduction of a training programme for members or members of security services from the perspective of gender equality and human rights of women. Mr. Minister, you can't tell me this way, it'll be in other programs. Experience has shown that unless there is a specific item to point out among other things that this national policy will not be implemented. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1863	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. We're moving on to the Home Office. Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic. Amendment 26. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1864	The government does not accept the amendment because it is under the financial plan for 2008... This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on the purchase of commercial buildings to be financed through public and private partnerships and is not necessary to provide additional funds under the project of business facilities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1865	Thank you. Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1866	Mr. Minister, I didn't understand if it was going to be built or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1867	It will be built from a public, private partnership project that involves renting. ... then at the position of business facilities and shop. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1868	If that's the case, I won't insist on the amendment. But I would like to warn you that the town of Sisak donated what, the state of Croatia, the land to all these services and that police working under abnormal conditions. That's what you need to go see if you're not to settle down. And it's a project that's been over for five years. Now, do you want it this year... in public, in private, I don't know which other partnership, anyway. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it's important to me what you just said was going on. And I wonder if it goes this year?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1869	I'm telling you that's right. You have two options to believe or not to believe, so decide.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1870	Did you give up? Thank you. The amendment has been withdrawn. 27. Amendments by Mrs Sonja Simunovic and Igor Dragovan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1871	The government does not accept the amendment because the construction of the Slavonski Brod Police Administration building is also planned from the funds that will be provided from the PPP project, and there is no need to provide additional funding from the budget for this purpose.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1872	Thank you. Mr. Representative Igor Dragovan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1873	Mr Minister, the Brod-Posavina Police Administration and its employees have been working under inadequate working conditions for years. On the one hand, citizens and citizens of Brod-Posavina County have a lot of communication problems, the needs they have with police administration. It does not work in one place, works on several locations that are rented and which, among other things, produce and certain costs of the rental itself. The fact that for years it has been being prepared to build a new police administration, that the land has been resolved, that a construction permit has been resolved. This draft budget does not show that there is a priority to going to the building of that police administration. So I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1874	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 28th Representative Ranko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1875	The government does not accept the amendment because this activity is planned under Chapter 020 of the State Administration for Protection and Rescue and the estimated amount planned in 2008 will be sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1876	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ranko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1877	Your Honor, I could agree with such plans. But since Croatia's Mountain Rescue Service has shown that as an association of citizens, it actually works as the most exclusive unit. I guess this plan was actually done on the system that no disaster was going to happen. I hope that the experience that we have since last summer speaks well enough why this situation should change and that it cannot happen that the safety of citizens in the most difficult conditions is actually being built on the voluntary approach of the members of the association and in this sense I have proposed this amendment. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1878	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 29th Lady Representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1879	The government doesn't accept the amendment. In order to promote gender equality, sufficient funding has been provided in the framework of regular funding and are planned at different cost-based positions at the level of expenditure in recent years. So we think it's enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1880	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1881	Mr. Minister, here's the thing with your ministry, I have suggested that in a symbolic way, funds be determined to implement a national policy to promote gender equality. Come on, I'll only give you two reasons. One is that you have certain obligations from national policy, so it would be convenient for someone in your ministry to read it and act according to that policy. And among other things, it's related to the Ministry of Defence for training programmes for members and members of security services from the perspective of gender equality and human rights of women. And two. The latest strategy for the fight against domestic violence among other things says that in the state budget, it is necessary to introduce an entry into the state budget in the division of each state body responsible for the problem of domestic violence in order to ensure the means to carry out activities, improve protection against domestic violence. Among other things, the Ministry of the Interior is listed, and this is all part of the national policy for gender equality. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1882	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Please, Madam Vice President and Minister Kosor. The 30th Amendment of MPs Ivica Pancic and Ante Kotromanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1883	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. The government does not accept this amendment. It is, in effect, an amendment to support programmes for prisoners and missing, requiring an increase of thousands, millions and 500,000 kuna. However, I would like to say that more than 8 million kunas, namely 8 million and 291,000 and slightly more kunas, have been allocated for programmes for prisoners and missing in this year. And this amount of a million-and-a-half refers to employees' salaries in the Department of Detained and Missing, Material Costs, Office Material, Diaries, etc. And we don't think it's necessary to increase it. By the way, we have increased the funds in positions for prisoners and missing since 2003 when they amounted to 752000 kuna per here amounting to 8 million and 291. So we don't think we should increase these funds, that it'll be enough for all our activities this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1884	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1885	Thank you, Mr. President, Madam Vice President. It would be good if that were the case. But first, I would say it was sad to listen yesterday to members of the government talking about the amendments of parliamentary deputies exclusively as a form of their promotion. These amendments serve, among other things, to point out a particular problem that exists in society, and surely finding prisoners and missing is one of the major problems of this society. Unfortunately, by abolishing the state administration for prisoners, the State Office for Detained and Missing Exhumation Jobs, Identification, Search for the Missing are in difficulty and just one of the symbolic visions to launch them is this modest amount of increase in this item. That's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1886	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 31 of the same MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1887	Thank you very much. It also refers to the positions of imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders and civilians. So, for exhumation, my amendment, the government doesn't accept because we believe that the funds that we've foreseen in this year are more than six million kunas. In particular, 6748000 related to the collection of information, carrying out test excavations and exhumations, the identification process and all other things that go well enough with this hard work on the basis of the projected funds in the last year. Here, since Mr. Pancic mentioned what, of course, on behalf of the Government, I would absolutely decline that the search is in difficulty. I would like to announce that, just these days, a new search has begun, i.e. a test dig in the area of Vukovar-Srijem County, something also in Vinkovci and I believe that we will get some positive results. These funds are more than doubled compared to 2003, and we believe that they will be sufficient for this year's activities. If there was a need for greater resources, of course the government would provide them.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1888	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1889	Well, of course our goal is certainly to share you in power and us in opposition to this process being brought to an end as soon as possible because you know as well as we do that every year a large number of parents leave without knowing the truth about their loved ones. But here you said that compared to last year, the amount was doubled, compared to 2003. However, this is the fourth year where the amount is planned at approximately the level of previous years, meaning 2006, 2007 and 2008 as well as projections for the future two years, there are no changes. I believe that the government must be on these issues far more ambitious and even more effort if, of course, its resources allow for human and other potentials, it must be invested that this issue is removed as soon as possible from the agenda. I'm asking the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1890	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 32 amendments were also made by MPs Ivica Pancic and Ante Kotromanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1891	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The government does not accept this amendment, namely orthopedic and other medical aids. The funds we've been planning will be enough and more than that for this year. It's mostly about getting wheelchairs for the most disabled. We've been doing these evaluations based on previous experiences for the past four years, but also on the funds spent in the past year. It will be absolutely sufficient, satisfactory. And by the way, I'm saying that they're in 2002, for example. It was 220 thousand kuna, and now it's 3 million and 100.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1892	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1893	Madam Vice President is tireless when she reminds me of 2002 or 2003. That I start to remind myself of the 92th, 93th or 99th year. It won't take us far. But there is a problem. It's not just a wheelchair, there's other orthopedic aids for the most disabled. If we can agree that our disabled or our veterans are somehow leveled with veterans in the most developed parts of the world, I don't think that's disputed even though in 2001 and 2002 you kept asking questions, and I now confirm that this was the case in the '90s and that it was so in 2002 and that it is now. With health care for them, we are lagging behind for economic and in their reasons in relation to these most developed countries, and therefore this increase of one million or two million kuna is certainly not going to solve the problem, but it will show good will that we really want this problem of the most difficult disabled to solve as best as possible, so please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1894	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 33 amendments also by MPs Ivica Pančić and Ante Kotromanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1895	Thank you very much. The government does not accept this amendment. It is about the means to rehabilitate Croatian military disableds in health institutions. We believe, namely, based on last year's experience that these funds are sufficient. It is a new programme since the new law of 2005 which entered into force on 1 January 2005. So Croatian wartime disabled people have the right to medical, physical rehabilitation and in the last year we have opened the tender and signed contracts with several hospitals in Croatia, and this possibility was used by about 150 wartime disabled people more and could not, of course, be completed by some documentation. We therefore argue on the basis of last year's experience, but also from the year before, that these funds are sufficient. Unfortunately, last year, not all of them were spent, simply because they were no longer of interest. For these reasons, the Government does not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1896	Mr. Representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1897	Then we're in trouble planning the funds, but let's leave it as planned. But in 2006, 900 thousand kunas were planned, 2007 million kunas, for this year million kunas, for the next two years a million kunas, and then you could at least include this projected inflation and then increase that amount by several hundred thousand kunas. Because I don't think it's necessary to save on the issues of rehabilitation of especially the most difficult military people. You said yourself that's your program, or project from the new law. We support it, but we believe that retaining a million kunas is not enough but that it should be extended and for a greater circle of users. I have no doubt that by rebalanced the budget if there is any need for funds that it will come up with, but better plan at the beginning and be more ambitious, I also object to this amendment and those previous three. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1898	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 34 Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1899	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The government does not accept this amendment. Since the amendment of Mr. Zoran Vinkovic's amendment does not actually show a form of compensation for the blind, we point out that the compensation for permanent rights relating to Croatian military disabled persons is provided in the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity. They are absolutely enough because they refer to the most difficult disabled, so the first group. However, perhaps Mr. Representative may have guessed, thought of something else, but then these are positions of meaning to other blind persons, but these are the positions of the Ministry of Health and Social Care. And as for the Croatian wartime military disableds of the first group, meaning the most difficult, they belong to everything that is laid down under the law and all of this is ensured means everything that is most difficult and so for the blind.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1900	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1901	It is a fee for the blind, and the amendment itself has been put in this position since it is the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity. Well, I remind you that this fee is in other countries in our environment, for example. in Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina 175 euros, we have 280 kuna. And that's why it's increased by 20 million kuna to increase the fee for the blind. Since the question that was raised on the current clock is also asked for the fee to be half the amount and 50% of the average net salary in the Republic of Croatia, I demand a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1902	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 35th Amendment by MP Ivica Pančić, Ante Kotromanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1903	Mr. President! The government does not accept this amendment. It is about employment positions for Croatian defenders. We claim that the funds we have provided for this year amounting to 40 million kunas are sufficient, namely, for the quality implementation of the programme. And there's no need to increase funds. Namely, all our programs are going here, to the competition. So a contest is being called for for all the programs. They proved successful. Last year, the government adopted a programme for the employment of Croatian defenders for the next term of office means since 2008. And we, on the basis of excellent experiences, have therefore, since more than 7 and a half thousand Croatian defenders have been employed, predicted that these funds will be sufficient on the basis of repeated competitions, the results of these tenders. I must say that here are some measures that have proved particularly successful, such as the establishment of Croatian cooperatives and two competitions in the past year. It all worked out. Therefore, I repeat once again the funds will be absolutely sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1904	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ante Kotromanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1905	President of the Parliament, Minister! Since Croatian society's early cancer is unemployment, high unemployment, and in this general unemployment, we have about 20 thousand unemployed defenders today I support these programmes made by the Ministry of Defence to hire defence attorneys. But I think that these funds are insufficient because they should provide more resources and that with an additional 20 million we could hire maybe a few thousand more people. I demand that this amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1906	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 36th Amendment of the same MPs... The edges of Pancic and Ante Kotromanović. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1907	Thank you, Mr. President. The government does not accept this amendment. It is about the means to implement the National Psych-Social and Health Assistance Programme. Namely, I would like to warn Mr. MPs that these funds that we have provided in total in this year are greater than the amendments or the funds you propose to the amendment. In fact, 3 million kunas and 100 thousand kunas are to be included in these funds that we have foreseen for a new programme of medical or psycho-social assistance to be implemented for the most disabled and their families, for families of Croatian defenders suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder, or for children who have lost both parents. We begin already this year, within the range of these 3 million and 100 thousand kunas and systematic checks covering approximately 2 and a half thousand Croatian defenders and members of their families. So these total funds are larger than 15 million kunas.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1908	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ante Kotromanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1909	I'm very glad that preventive checks will begin this year for the defenders. But why do I think that there is a need to increase the funds for this particular item, which is for those defenders who are not disabled? We have a big problem in society, we have about 500 grand defenders today. And mostly this law has dealt well with the victims of the Homeland War and the disabled and other categories. But I think that we need to give a tendon to those people who are now, who are not disabled and that we should devote this very health care to people who, neither have nor are employed, are disabled. And in that context, I'm asking the president, at least in the next period, to see what we can do for the defenders who I say, which, mostly, if there are twenty thousand people who don't work, who are in a difficult social and material situation. And it would be useful to see about in the next period to introduce these preventive checks for those people who are not wounded. I would ask that we also vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1910	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 37th Amendment of the same MPs Ivica Panačić and Ante Kotromanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1911	Thank you, Mr. President. The government does not accept this amendment. It is about the funds provided for Croatian Defence Associations from the Homeland War and members of their families. In fact, we believe that the funds that we have provided for more than 19 and a half million kunas are sufficient for the work of the Homeland War associations, namely, for their programmes. Since we are increasing these resources year after year, I must point out that this part of our lives also means, and in the ministry where I am headed, we are very much following the code of positive practice adopted by the Croatian Parliament. And all the funds that we allocate according to the programs are awarded through competitions. So I once again point out for the programmes and we think that this amount of, more than 19 and a half million kuna is enough for the implementation of good programmes this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1912	Representative Ante Kotromanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1913	I'd like to correct the President of the Parliament as well. I'm still a representative, not a representative, not a gender changeer these days. And as for this amendment, just one sentence. In order to improve the work of the Homeland War associations, we have therefore proposed an increase in funds and I ask that votes be cast in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1914	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1915	Mr. Vice President! The amendment by MP Marija Lugaric is not accepted by the government. It is, in fact, an amendment relating to youth policy positions, as it is proposed, among other things, to call the Youth Policy position to change in the Implementation of the National Youth Action Programme. I would like to warn that the implementation of measures under the National Youth Action Programme is also related to other programme activities of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, but of course also to the positions of other ministries, but of course I am only talking about my own. So it's support for children and young people-oriented programs. The Committee of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the Prevention of Disabilities in the behaviour of children and young people and others and here, we cannot tie this position just to the implementation of the mentioned programme. In fact, the amount of the planned funding for the implementation of the national programme is, from everything, greater than what you are proposing.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1916	Representative Marija Lugarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1917	Dear Mrs. Kosor, a team over. I have just proposed renaming this position precisely because these other activities exist as special positions, so some subsidies or support for programmes intended for children and young people exist. There are special positions. And the position of implementation of the National Youth Action Programme does not exist. I will warn you, I think you remember well that the National Programme for Youth Action was unanimously adopted here in the Croatian Parliament, that it was written to him that it was the official policy of the Republic of Croatia for young people, so it should be called. And on the other hand, you were if I wasn't wrong about one of those who was just expressing a skepticism that there wouldn't be enough resources and asked that exactly this kind of funding be allocated to the implementation of the national programme. I think we have one report from our Committee on Family, Youth and Sport to submit a report to the Parliament on the implementation of the National Programme, since it is running out of time for this year and that it should be made new. But I ask you, if you will not at least accept this increase in the items to accept the change in the title of the position because it was so, I repeat it more because of what you said yourself, because otherwise it has been happening to us as we have in recent years, that in youth policy we suffer and what is a national programme of action for young people who are here in the Croatian Parliament unanimously established politics but also what is not, for example, the purchase of computers for families with eight and more children who are good measures but policies for young people are not. That's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1918	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Representative Vesna Škulić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1919	Mr. Vice President, the government does not accept the amendment under regular number 39. We believe that, in order to accept this amendment, we do not have a legal basis in the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, as the proposal by MP Škulic does not refer to the work of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1920	Representative Vesna Škulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1921	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ms. Family Ministers, defenders and intergenerational solidarity, Deputy Prime Minister for Humanitarian Activities and Human Rights and Prime Minister of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for Persons with Disabilities. So this explanation of yours doesn't hold water for me. I think that you, as Deputy Prime Minister and just as Prime Minister of the Committee for Persons with Disabilities, should take care of this particular right and that is the release of VAT on imports of cars for civilian people with disabilities. It's the same right, I remind you, they have the disabled of the Homeland War. In some ways you support discrimination within the very population of people with disabilities. Yes, ma'am, this is what the national strategy of 2003-2006 has obliged you to start by equating the rights of all persons with disabilities regardless of the place and way of obtaining disability. I also remind you that a few months ago you said that the car was an orthopedic aid for the disabled of the Homeland War. Now I don't know why you're changing your mind over civilian disabilities. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1922	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Representatives of Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1923	Mr. Vice President, the government does not accept this amendment. In fact, MP Lugaric suggested that support for programmes aimed at children and young people develop in two items, to support children-oriented programmes and support for youth-oriented programmes. In fact, we accept these amendments because the structure of this activity is predetermined by the Ministry of Finance and because these funds are allocated through competitions and it is not possible to know in advance the exact number of quality projects and programmes intended for children, young people. In fact, many of them are often intertwined or complemented. Therefore, we think that it is possible to spend more rationally this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1924	Representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1925	Dear Mrs. Kosor, you're saying the Ministry of Finance determines your budget. I thought the budget was being passed in parliament. But this is an amendment that I'm not asking for an increase in funds. I ask that it be separated and that you know exactly what it is for young people, what it is for children. We know very well what is what we can simply plan for each other. That distribution may be as I suggested, but I will agree to any other distribution of these funds. In fact, in the 10th month, the Republic of Croatia will again report to the UN Children's Rights Committee in Geneva and it is said that they are asked to know what funds for children are intended for the state budget. The same story is true for young people, and if you won't accept this year, I mean this amendment I stand for the fifth year in a row because by 2003 we had it separated, then you will accept after the recommendations or mandatory requests of the UN Children's Rights Committee in Geneva this fall and we will see by the year that we will simply have to separate it because the Ministry of Finance can't be the one to dictate what programming activities will be in your ministry. So, I repeat, maybe you've changed your mind that in some way we've agreed because we're not looking for an increase in financial items but simply knowing what's going on. I say again, I agree to any other distribution that suits you. You haven't changed your mind? And you'll be after these international organizations press you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1926	Next time.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1927	Then I ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1928	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Representatives Dragica Zgrebec and Nadice Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1929	Mr. Vice President, the government does not accept the amendment of Zgrebec and Jelash. Namely, they have submitted an amendment to the establishment of a house for the care of victims of domestic violence in Međimurje County and are seeking 100 thousand kuna for it. We do not accept this amendment because the ministry has no jurisdiction or founding rights over legal persons engaged in such activities but I would like to instruct you that, at the time when this house is needed, it is likely to be called a house of care or something to direct all those involved in this process to the competition that we will also call for support for associations dealing with this activity, so the protection of women victims of violence and will likely succeed in obtaining support from the ministry that I am headed. In fact, we have always supported such programmes over the past four years, up to now more than 6.5 million kuna, and I suppose then this programme in Međimurje County will be so well designed that it will be supported through competitions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1930	Representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1931	Madam Minister, I thank you for this instruction, but I must say, however, that I am very proud that here is the Međimurje County Assembly, at the end of last year, adopted a draft on the establishment of a home for the care of victims of domestic violence. Namely, project holders are the Centre for Social Care and the Society for Psycho-Social Assistance, the precalculation value of the project 560 thousand kuna. Part of the funds has already been secured in the Međimurje County budget. Part of the funding would provide both the budget and the local self-government units. And given the expressed need to create a safe house in Međimurje County, above all, because of the escalation of domestic violence, caused by the problems of alcoholism. I've been looking for only 100,000 kunas. It's not much, it wouldn't be missing on the roll reconstruction project, and the "safe house" project would mean a lot. And that's why this support from your ministry would show that support for these projects isn't just a declarative nature, it's real. I'm still asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1932	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you, Vice President. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration. IDS agent club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1933	The amendment is not accepted. Because under the 2008 financial plan, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not plan to equip the secretariat of the Adriatic Euroregion in Pula. Since the same is not within the competence of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1934	Representative Marin Brkarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1935	Mr Vice-President, I would like to propose, on the one hand, voting on this amendment for the reason that it is the headquarters of the Adriatic Euro Region in the city of Pula, which is the Adriatic Euroregion gathering regions from 6 European countries, countries along the Adriatic. What the Istrian County is coordinating the work of the Adriatic Euroregion. And I think that, and I am sure that the Adriatic Euroregion is important for the Republic of Croatia because it promotes European, pro-European integration in the area of Southeast Europe. And for that reason, it would be necessary for one such secretariat, to say the Adriatic Euroregion, to have a high-quality, decorated facility in the seat itself. In the city of Pula. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1936	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Representatives of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1937	The amendment is accepted because the 2008 financial plan will also finance the implementation of the national policy to promote gender equality by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration under regular funding. So the same are already foreseen and there's no need to open a new position.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1938	Representatives of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1939	Madam Secretary of State. I don't know where those funds are provided. I failed to find them in the financial budget, i.e. they were not recorded as funds for implemented national policies to promote gender equality. Unfortunately, it was neither last year nor last year, so as far as I know, neither last year nor this one nor the 2010 projections will achieve a task which, among other things,... There are national policies in this book, see, to promote gender equality. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Otherwise, I think it'll turn out that we in Parliament are adopting some kind of document, waving with them when we go out and boast. And the ministries, within, therefore, do not themselves predict funds and implement them. And among other things, the NBP should plan to include experts on gender issues in policy activities related to peace building, regional co-operation and security in the country. You know, this year, the Committee on Gender Equality will request a report on the implementation of this national policy. I don't know what she's gonna look like, and I'm very interested in what she's gonna look like with the NBP homework. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1940	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you. Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Representative Mirela Holly, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1941	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Therefore, the Government does not accept that amendment, and the amendment for the reasons for the funds provided for in this position according to the activities of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship is sufficient in the amount of 300,000 kuna and activities over the past years already implemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1942	Representative Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1943	Dear Ministers, I believe that the Government of the Republic of Croatia must have a renewable energy strategy if it wants to increase the share of renewable energy in total energy from the current 11% to 20, at the latest by 2020, which is ultimately the European objective. Because without a strategic determination and a concrete implementation plan, this goal cannot be achieved. That's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1944	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 45. Also MPs of the Mirela Holy Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1945	The Government does not accept that amendment because the funds provided for in heading A 560 035 are more efficient in the use of energy according to the activities of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship sufficient in the amount of those 300,000 kunas because activities under this programme took place over the past period.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1946	Representative Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1947	Your Honor, I appeal to the government and the MPs to support this amendment. Given that the consensus of all political options in Croatia is sustainable development. And I insist therefore on increasing these funds which would lead to the development of an energy efficiency strategy that would lead to significant energy savings. That's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1948	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Representative Davor Bernardić, 46th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1949	The government does not accept that amendment because the funds are provided for in that position for state support for energy efficiency and renewable energy sources according to the implementation of our programmes are sufficient for 2008 at that amount.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1950	Representative Davor Bernardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1951	Dear Mr. President, so here we were, at the beginning when the Budget was explained, we had the opportunity to hear about how strongly we were hit and mortgaged... mortgage loans in America and energy prices rise. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And this is exactly the point where companies are encouraged to use renewable energy sources. And so it's surprising that this item is smaller than last year. So either we don't have energy policy or obviously something's wrong. And that's why I'm asking for a vote on this to Amanda.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1952	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Also representative Davor Bernardic, 47th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1953	The government does not accept this amendment, for the reasons that more than 280 million kuna for the activities of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and craftsmen are foreseen in the programmes of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, as well as for international and international activities of small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as for other projects where sufficient resources are provided.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1954	Representative Davor Bernardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1955	Dear Mr. President, there is no international activity of entrepreneurs in that book we received, the booklet is for the competitiveness of Croatian society. There is no competitive society without the i.e. There is no competitive economy, so no increased activity, no international activity of entrepreneurs. And the amount of 287000 kuna provided for in this amendment, not by amendment, but by this proposal by the Government, is more than little for that item. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1956	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 48th also representing Davor Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1957	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept that amendment because, according to the dynamics of the use of funds in the previous period and according to the work programme for 2008 it is found that the resources provided are sufficient for the above activities, and they relate only to the sector of small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1958	Representative Davor Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1959	Thank you very much. Speaking of small and medium-sized enterprises, when they asked one of the former management presidents of Coca-Cola what he would spend the last $100,000 on, he said on the commercial. And therefore, retaining the same level of promotion of marketing for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs as for last year means that we will certainly not increase exports, or we will not create a new added value. What is important about this amendment is that Croatian entrepreneurs and those working in the country have quality products that cannot be competitive without quality presentation and quality marketing. And I repeat again that the 2008 budget is for the competitiveness of Croatian society and therefore I am asking this amendment to double resources and I appeal to all MPs to accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1960	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 49th also representing Davor Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1961	The government does not accept that amendment for the reason that, with the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship and HAMAG, it has the resources provided for that purpose and is sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1962	Representative Davor Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1963	Thank you very much. The small economy, crafts, small and medium-sized enterprises are strategic branches of the Croatian economy, at least that is how they are shown, and it is therefore surprising that for guarantees for the small economy provided by this government proposal 50% less funds than compared to last year. And my appeal to this is that these funds are getting much deeper and therefore I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1964	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 50th is also a representative of Davor Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1965	The government does not accept this amendment for the reasons that the funds according to the projects of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship are sufficient according to the dynamics of realisation and with this programme there are a number of other programmes to encourage craftsmen.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1966	Representative Davor Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1967	Subsidies to farmers, craftsmen, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs for the development of crafts are a new draft budget, so I repeat again smaller than last year and that is already one in a number of items. And the picture shows the competitiveness of Croatian society. So I would really ask that this amendment be accepted and the funds for that item be significantly increased, so in relation to last year, I ask for a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1968	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1969	The government does not accept the above-mentioned amendment for the reasons that, according to the dynamics and programmes of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, it is envisaged for the development and promotion of a small and medium-sized economy of more than 280 million kuna for the total activities, and therefore we consider those funds sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1970	Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1971	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. This proposal, although there is an increase compared to last year, is insufficient, especially since in encouraging production in a situation where Croatia and I do not think this funding will be sufficient. You know that the growth of production in Croatia does not even follow the economic growth rate, i.e. it is not proportionate to economic growth, so I think we should give additional resources to stimulate production. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1972	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 52nd Representative Davor Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1973	We do not accept that amendment because, according to the dynamics of the use of funds in the preceding period, the funds provided are sufficient for the given activity, and they relate exclusively to the sector of small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1974	Representative Davor Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1975	Incentives of production are most important and only a slight increase is foreseen here compared to last year. Only the promotion of production and new production can create conditions for Croatia as high as possible and for stronger economic growth and activity as well as for the competitiveness of Croatian society. So, I am already starting to wonder with this now whether it is for the competitiveness of the Croatian economy that has the task of raising Croatian society or whether it is for the competitiveness of Croatian society in the sense that our Croatian unemployed citizens will be competitive with those unemployed in Europe. So, I would like this item to be increased twice, and not only slightly, that our production could be competitive with the European one, and we have recently witnessed the vote of the Memorandum of Entrepreneurship and Innovation Act, which is precisely related to this paragraph, so I am asking for a vote on this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1976	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 53rd representative of Ante Kotromanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1977	Thank you very much. That amendment is rejected as unnecessary by reason that the city of Sinj will be able to make public calls on its application for the Kukuzovac work zone, following the publication of the building of entrepreneurship zones for 2008, and, by the way, since I am in contact with people, I think they do not have the ready-made project documentation in order to be able to report in this year. But I hope it works.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1978	Representative Ante Kotromanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1979	If I understand correctly, then the planned funds are 98 million kuna in the next period for this work zone... That's good to hear. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I didn't know that. If it's really this, I'll trust the Minister of Economy. No need, no need, I won't at all, I'm withdrawing the amendment and I think that's good news for everyone. I hope it's true and I'm telling you that there are over 4,000 unemployed people in Sinj. He's in bad shape. The economy is collapsing, the only working zone... He can do something. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I ask the government and the minister of the former, the minister of police, today's Vice-President of Parliament Jarnjak, who was in Sinj and promised downstairs to do something if the government falls, to make something for this Sinj and the Cetitian province. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1980	Thank you. Amendment withdrawn. 54th Amendment of Representatives Dino Kozlevac and Tanja Vrbat.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1981	We also see this amendment as unnecessary with the reason that once again to encourage entrepreneurship infrastructure, the development of entrepreneurship zones is foreseen in the budget of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship 98210000 kuna, and after the publication of the project for the construction of entrepreneurship zones for 2008, a public call will be issued for which the Municipality of Brtonigla will also be able to run for its request for construction, to co-finance the construction of infrastructure in the Brtonigla entrepreneurship zone.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1982	Representative Dino Kozlevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1983	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. So let me give you a few words about this Brtonigle project, because it is a classic project, or one classic need of municipalities and cities in the development sense. Since we are in a highly centralised state where almost 95% of fiscal income is incomed at the country level where I have to say, unfortunately, there is no fundamental decentralisation that would allow the dispersion of source revenues is impossible to realise any major development project in the local environment without participation, without the help of the state. In this sense, the Brtonigla municipality is one of the smaller municipalities in the rural area between major centres that has done a great deal on its development, on the development of agriculture and winemaking, and this particular project is one of the assumptions for creation, or where the unit of local self-government can influence the creation of assumptions of development. We therefore reasonably expect state co-financing, and precisely because Mr. Minister said, since the items were shown exclusively in figures, it is impossible to see whether or not it is and how much in these figures. I therefore expect what he has said to be able to run and that this request will be adopted. Thank you. I'm looking for a vote on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1984	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 55 also representatives of Dina Kozlevac and Tanja Vrbat.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1985	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So once again, we have five amendments that are of the same character. I once again want to make a clear and loud note. At the positions of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship to encourage entrepreneurship infrastructure, the development of entrepreneurship zones is reserved 98 million 210 thousand kuna. The program's about to end. After the creation of the 2008 programme, a public tender will be launched, all of those municipalities that are interested, all cities, all units of local self-government will be able to run their business zones in a public tender and we will choose those we will co-finance according to the said programme and established criteria. So Amendment 55 to the Vodnjan entrepreneurship zone, we find unnecessary, unwarranted, and once again we call them to report for a public invitation, a public tender that will soon be announced.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1986	Representative Dino Kozlevac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1987	Here it is, meaning the famous or magical word decentralisation all parties, almost all parties in the pre-election campaign used and used as one promise to come and I must stress that only the core financial decentralisation will allow strong and evenly developing the Republic of Croatia because it will also enable mechanisms in this direction. I must say that the needs and projects of the Istrian County in terms of separation from the Istrian County are fiscal incomes and needs and development projects that are represented in this budget I almost dare say at a symbolic level. It is therefore expected that something might be answered during the year, as requested in terms of what the minister said. The municipalities, cities and counties make enormous efforts with the help of various lending, investment, investment, partnerships to make certain assumptions for the development of the economy. Vodnjan municipality is also one environment near a major development centre, which makes efforts, but fiscal revenues are limited. We expect that the assistance needed sooner or later will be made possible so that these development projects can be realised. I'm looking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1988	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 56 also representatives of Dina Kozlevec and...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1989	Thank you very much, Mr. President. And this amendment is rejected as unnecessary with the same explanation, but by the way, be said in the previous few years since the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship co-financed the construction of infrastructure in entrepreneurship zones, it must say that municipalities, in general local self-government units from the Istria area, received more assistance on average for building infrastructure in their entrepreneurship areas than in some other counties. Of course it's a good part because the programmes were also very well prepared and the candidates met all the criteria, and I am convinced that this will continue, so I call on the city of Labin to run for a public tender and I believe that there will be room in the budget of the Ministry of Economy to support the business zone of Vines.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1990	Representative Dino Kozlevac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1991	So here it is, the area of the maze is one of the areas that has been linked to mining, to industry and which can say conversion in Croatian way and our privatisation felt in the worst possible way. Thus, in 91, 92, 93, and that year, the area was particularly difficult for them. They led to the migration of the population, the fluctuation of the population of the Great, people were forced to go to work with the belly after the bread. It is therefore an area that has experienced major problems in the past. The efforts of both the city of Labin and the regional self-government seem to be an effort to improve this very situation. I must say that the positive trends in recent years have been happening in this area, there has been a restructuring of the entire economy, or a whole series of activities that allow. It is precisely the business zone of Vinež that for the area of Labin and Labinity is one of the crucial issues of further development of this area and the creation of the assumption that I would say still, that the population is kept and the citizens are kept at home, that they have a place to work and to enable the development of this area. I'm looking for a vote on that, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1992	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 57 also representatives Dino Kozlevac and Tanja Vrbat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1993	Thank you very much. So this amendment is also rejected as unnecessary and unwarranted, but by the way, I will also stay in Istria on Friday and visit some of these municipalities that are running to co-finance the construction of infrastructure in entrepreneurship areas. I am deeply convinced that competent people work there and prepare projects well. Let them make a public call, they will have the support of the Ministry of Economy if they meet the criteria and the city of Pazin and the city of Labin and the town of Vodnjan and everyone else have a good chance, good opportunities for the Ministry of Economy to co-finance the construction of infrastructure in their entrepreneurship areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1994	Representative Dino Kozlevac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1995	Well, here it is, the town of Pazin, I don't need to remind you that the county headquarters in Istria is not the largest and most developed city and the city of Pazin has also felt all the good, or bad sides under the quotes of good, privatisation. So there's been a downfall, there's been a series of economic backlogs, enough to mention "The Watcher" and the city's been in big trouble. Since it is central Istria and rural area where Pazin is associated with the rest of the municipalities and cities. Therefore, Pazin is to say so the engine of development or should be the leader of development in that central part of Istria. Therefore, expectations are that the government has sensitivity and support especially towards the town of Pazin as the county headquarters. And so to allow for the development of Pazin here, through a concrete one project that would pull the whole part of the municipalities and cities in central Istria. I expect parliamentary representatives from Istria, from the ruling coalition, to also support this project, i.e. to support this proposal right in the development and development of the central area of Istria. Otherwise, by not accepting the amendment or having an understanding of the amendment, it will be difficult to take away the impression that the areas and citizens of Istria have been and have penalized perhaps because they have not given confidence, the expected trust of the ruling coalition. Thank you, and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1996	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 58th Representatives Nenad Stazić, Josip Leko, Bruno Kurelić and representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1997	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the honourable parliamentary representatives of this amendment! The amendment is rejected as unnecessary with the same explanation. Therefore, 98 million kunas are foreseen at the positions of the Ministry of Economy to co-finance the construction of infrastructure in entrepreneurship zones. Small and medium enterprises are highly ranked in our priorities. We're giving him special meaning. Nearly 100 million kunas will be distributed to all those who meet the criteria and in public tender prove that they can finance the construction of entrepreneurship zones. We will help them through co-financing, so we suggest that the municipality of Draganic report to a public tender that will soon be announced.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1998	Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u1999	Now, Minister! You say the amendment is unnecessary. You don't need it, they need it. It is the business zone Draganic and Draganic. The expansion of the entrepreneurial zone. The municipality of Draganic, the poor cannot do it alone without the help of the state. Now, you tell them to report to the public tender. If they meet the criteria, they'll get the money. But I ask you ministers what are the criteria? If the criteria set by Mr. Jarnjak, chief secretary of the HDZ municipality of Sinj, are that they do not change the chosen power cannot count on money from the state budget. Then I must warn you that in the municipality of Draganic that condition, that criterion will not be met. There's no HDZ in power. He's there in power of the SDP. Therefore, if there is that criterion, those funds for the expansion of this entrepreneurial zone will not see anything. But I call on you, not to help all the municipalities, no matter where they are or who they are in power, then accept this amendment, people will be able to expand their entrepreneurial zone. Entrepreneurs will be able to work. That would be the principle of all these amendments. You refused them. I don't know how many times with the same explanation. Therefore, I demand a vote on behalf of transparency, on behalf of not introducing those criteria that HDZ introduces in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2000	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 59. IDS agent club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2001	Thank you very much, Vice President. That amendment shall also be rejected as unnecessary. I'll try to explain again for what reason. If we co-financed the construction of infrastructure in the entrepreneurship zone according to the criterion of who would remember which entrepreneurship zones and run for the amendment then it would not be good. So in that case we wouldn't have a situation if, as we have today, the total state budget was co-financed from the budget of the Ministry of Economy building infrastructure in 292 entrepreneurship zones by clearly established criteria. The criteria are set out in the Programme to encourage the development of a project to build entrepreneurship zones defined by the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship each year. These criteria have been made public and published. You can read them when we publish this program. And based on that, these criteria are submitted and therefore candidacy. I therefore call on all units of local self-government from any county whether it is Istrian or any other, we are now talking about an amendment relating to the Istrian County to read the criteria, prepare projects and report. And we will support them because small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs are a new valuable force for the development of the Croatian economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2002	Representative Boris Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2003	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary! Certainly, the area of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship is one of the most important and, therefore, in 2002, the Istrian County built a strategic plan for the development of entrepreneurship zones in the Istrian County. The truth is, there are programs, public calls from year to year. But it is also true that the share of state co-financing in the area of our county when we talk about entrepreneurship zones is minor or moving around 10%. It's just... The numbers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the county, the cities, the municipalities, right along with the organization of entrepreneurship infrastructure, stand out over 90%. So we were very pleased with one program that went after a single kuna to be locally bound by a single kuna of state money. To this day, however, we have witnessed a lack of respect. And exactly the infrastructure, the development of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, is a prerequisite for further economic development. I therefore request a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2004	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 60th Amendment of Representative Davor Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2005	The amendment is not accepted because the funds provided for in this item are sufficient as planned for 2008. And I would like to point out once again that the total means of stimulating and investing in the 5 million kuna clusters.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2006	Representative Davor Bernardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2007	Dear Vice President, Your Honor! Encouraging investment in clusters is one of the good practices of the European Union. So now, in the year in which we adopted the 121 package of laws that we have to pass, we predict retaining the same level of these investments this year. So the stagnation of those funds. And there's no greater production without new funds encouraged right in production. And that's why I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2008	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 61st also representing Davor Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2009	The amendment is not accepted because the funds provided for in the budget are considered sufficient for 2008 according to our programme and planned implementation. And once again, 5 million kunas are the total funds provided for to encourage and invest in clusters.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2010	Representative Davor Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2011	I'll do it again. So, subsidies to farmers, craftsmen, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs remained the same as last year. Therefore, there is no increase in production without additional resources to encourage production. I therefore request a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2012	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 62nd Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2013	The Government does not accept the above amendment for the reasons that the tender for the allocation of funds is also envisaged in this case, so the Istrian Development Agency may report to that invitation to tender. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2014	Representative Boris Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2015	The Istrian Development Agency is certainly one of the first development agencies in the Republic of Croatia. As so far, it has encouraged over thousands of entrepreneurial projects in the county. It may also be important to say that it is a development agency established by the county and all Istrian cities. We therefore believe that this agency is involved in the entrepreneurial life of the Istrian County, and since it implements a number of international projects, we know very well that the European Union is also co-financed by those projects that have absorbive power. We therefore believe that the state should recognise the work of this institution and thus contribute to the further development of the economy in the Istrian County. I therefore request a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2016	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 63rd Amendment is also a club of IDS representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2017	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept that amendment for similar reasons, i.e. the interest subsidy item for loans and support. Subsidies shall be accepted or not accepted by the basis of a public tender. We therefore propose that all those interested in subsidising interest have conditions for this, let them report to a public tender that will be announced.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2018	Representative Boris Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2019	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. It is certain that identifying entrepreneurship projects is much simpler when an institution is on the ground or when it comes to a guarantee scheme that knows entrepreneurs. It is safe to assess the entrepreneurial project when you are in contact with the entrepreneur himself that you can better recognize his support. Therefore, the Istrian County has foreseen in its budget and implemented the Regional Guarantee Fund programme. I think it is the first regional fund in the Republic of Croatia and therefore we consider it to be a successful result in the past period that the Ministry of Economy should also recognise such programmes and co-finance. I therefore request that the above-mentioned amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2020	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 64th Amendment of Representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2021	The government does not accept that amendment for the reasons that the funds are provided for all target groups, so the female beginners, the young are foreseen. The budget does not show projects but the total estimated amount of funds that has been made in this case.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2022	Representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2023	Thank you. Mr. Minister, I'm not even polluting with the amount of items. I am not asking for an increase in resources with this amendment, I am just asking that it be very clear what the target groups of societies are and what amounts we have for each group. Namely, very often they happen at this lower level of manipulation with funds intended for target groups and I think it's good for the transparency of the budget to actually return what we had in the budget by 2003, which is to prove very clearly and very transparently how much for which group we have the funds. I mean, so I'm not asking for a simple increase. I trust you when you say that's enough, but I just want it to show up exactly as it stands. I hope you change your mind about this amendment. If you won't, I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2024	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 65th Amendment of Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2025	The government does not accept that amendment for the reasons that the funds are foreseen for all target groups in the activities of the Ministry of Economy and therefore the budget does not show up again the projects but the overall projected item.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2026	Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2027	Mr. Minister, I suppose the Government would accept this amendment if the Government carried out the obligations and tasks given to it by this Croatian Parliament. We'll look at least today when I'm concerned all together to remind you of what we wrote in the National Gender Equality Policy, so inside it tells you nicely that the Ministry of Economy should have separated the item related to women's entrepreneurship and, as such, to show it separately. That's what national politics says. I kindly ask you to take a look, so maybe we'll do this task for next year's budget. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2028	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 66th Amendment of Representative Davor Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2029	Of course, the government does not accept this amendment for the reasons that other projects are envisaged for this purpose and according to the current dynamics of realisation and the implementation plan for 2008 we believe that the funds are sufficient as provided for in the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2030	Representative Davor Bernardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2031	Dear Vice President, Your Honor. There is no strong economy without a mobile economy or without mobility, and in this direction the requalification, requalification and employment of craftsmen is a necessary item and I think that this item provided for in the budget is insufficient. Well, it's better to plan more and reduce the rebalance to less depending on the needs. But when you plan more then you also have a strategy to make entrepreneurs consume more. However, if you do not plan any more, the strategy is probably missing somewhere. I therefore request a vote on this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2032	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Representative Davor Bernardic next amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2033	This amendment refers to the construction, modernisation and renewal of the fishing fleet and is therefore proposed to increase subsidies to companies outside the public sector in column six. However, the amendment cannot be accepted for the simple reason that we are aware of the dynamics of the realisation of the fishing fleet and the resources that we provided for that item in 2008 according to the dynamics of the construction of the fishing fleet are sufficient for 2008.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2034	Representative Davor Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2035	As far as this amendment is concerned, it is related to ZERP right now, and we hear in the media that it may also resort to the gradual introduction of ZERP whatever it means. However, what is the basis of this is the restoration and modernisation of the fishing fleet. Now I'm asking you why these funds for the restoration and realization of the fishing fleet in the year when we introduce ZERP 12 times smaller than last year, that's what I'm curious about. Why are these funds 12 times smaller than 2007? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2036	The vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 68th Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2037	Thank you very much. So, there is an increase in the amount for the Croatian export offensive. However, I must say that we are deeply aware of the possibilities of realisation in the first real year of the implementation of the Croatian export offensive and we believe that the planned amount of 17 million kuna is sufficient to realise the planned activities of the Croatian export offensive foreseen for 2008 so the Government does not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2038	Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2039	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. Although a lot of strong calls Croatian... offensive, I don't think she's got enough resources to try to change what's been bothering us in the Croatian economy for many years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And this is a negative balance, or a relationship with reconstruction, developed abroad. We've had 70 billion more imports this year than exports. And I hope that with projects like this, at least some of that, we can reverse that trend. And I'd kind of like to help you get some more funding for that praise program. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2040	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 69th Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2041	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, first of all, I would like to thank all those who have proposed amendments with a desire to help me. As for Amendment 69, he therefore refers to the amount of planned pensions for the People's War fighters. I must say that this amendment cannot be accepted for the simple reason why we believe that 612 million kunas provided for the pensions of the People's Liberation War are sufficient amounts of funds to pay off all pensions in 2008. And we don't think there should be an increase in the number, so the total because we're also tracking the total number of users that decreases from year to year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2042	Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2043	Mr. Vice President of the Government. The truth is, we're 2005. On April 12th brought the Declaration of Antifascism. The truth is that on that occasion we found that in one part of the exercise of their rights, fighters... I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, 17 years old, I am now counting on the period of one other government, we are not the fact that the pensions of NORA fighters in 92 have been reduced by, to 63.22% of then managed to correct all these years. So these 612 million that you're talking about enough but don't improve the material position of why we've defined ourselves, or ensure that the obvious injustice that was done to these people is corrected. And that's why I'm asking for a vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2044	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 70th Representative Maria Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2045	The Government cannot accept that amendment. Amendment, the explanation is as follows. Funds for the expenditure of active employment policy in 2008 at the position of active employment policy are planned on the basis of the implementation of the programme from the 2007 annual employment incentive plan. And based on the 2008 performance assessment. In fact, implementation of the measures in the 2007 annual employment incentive plan. To this end, 150 million 353 thousand 898 kuna were spent, for employment and education of 8 thousand 494 people, while in 2008, the planned funding was the first number, the number of persons involved in employment and education by 5% was planned to increase the planned amount of 4% which we consider sufficient for the implementation of the plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2046	Representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2047	Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister, Your Honor. She means your plan is wrong. So in a country that has very many unemployees you suggest to cut by 4 million kuna funds for active employment policy measures. At the same time, you are forecasting for 15 million kuna to increase funds for administration and management within the Croatian Employment Service. If I were to believe that those funds you're planning to increase for the administration would be more in a way and productive, so that, in some ways, you don't have to come back here with a relatively thin explanation, that execution was bad than you planned, then it would still hold water somewhere else. With your employment programme you predict in 2008 to subsidize the employment of 1081 people, young people without work experience, 1248 long-term unemployed persons, 753 older people and 499 people from a special unemployment group. I think it's as good to you as it is to me, but I think to everyone here in the hall, it's clear that it's not enough numbers in terms of the number of unemployed and it's not good, and that's your proposal, which I hope the MPs won't support, that in 2008, we're reducing resources for an active employment policy. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2048	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. And the 71st Amendment of Representative Maria Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2049	The planned funds for the activity of active employment measures for groups that threaten social exclusion relate to the funds from... the project. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They are fully in line with the overall value of the project and the timetable for the implementation of certain contractual obligations, and therefore we cannot accept that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2050	Representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2051	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. It all stands together. However, the fact is also that you and your government, and here the HDZ majority supports the fact that by 23%, or almost a quarter, we reduce resources for active employment measures and groups that are threatened by social exclusion. Regardless of the PHARE programme itself, I think that given the large number of people who are unemployed, primarily persons with disabilities, people who have been returned from different rehabilitation programmes, that the state should then give them a part of the budget that at least funds at the basic level that were last year. I also hope that in a few years, this measure and activity will not be necessary at all, that people will be employed. But, Mr. Minister, we won't do it if you reduce those funds year after year. Until at the same time, on the other hand, we don't have an increased number of jobs. So please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2052	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you, Vice President. The Ministry of Culture. Minister Bozo Bishop. The 72nd Amendment of Representative Maria Habek.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2053	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Amandadman is not accepted. According to the Law on the financing of public needs in culture, the Ministry of Culture calls for funding of the programme, the early programmes are also being discussed and evaluated by the Council for certain activities, in accordance with the Law on Cultural Councils adopted by this House in 2004. And that programme has been notified, and will be considered and an appropriate decision will be made.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2054	Representative Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2055	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, I hope you will consider this project which has been forwarded to you. We didn't see him in the budget. And I would just like to point out that this research project, the archaeological excavation of the old town of Ivanac, was launched 10 years ago, has not yet been completed. It is working together with the Institute for the Republic of Croatia and I am sorry that this project cannot be completed for 10 years. The town of Ivanec can't finance it alone. The location is located in the very center of the town of Ivanca in the central city park, so that the park itself does not have its priority purpose for the city's green area for ten years. I hope that in the near future you will find the opportunity to complete these archaeological research, excavations to bring the center of the town of Ivanca itself into some order and ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2056	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 73rd Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2057	The amendment is not accepted. That programme has been notified on call... an appropriate decision will be made. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2058	Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2059	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. I ask, however, to vote on this amendment since it is the suburban settlement of the Djudjans near Djakov, the heart of Slavonia. The point is that here in this village is stopped and so to speak the first tank of that Serbian Chetnik army in 1991, and this village in here lately is definitely attached to the city of Djakov, given that the city has invested significant funds in this suburban settlement. Otherwise, the village has a post office in Mikanovci, a priest in Koritni, Mrzovic, so in another municipality and belongs to the town of Djakov. And I think this amendment should be adopted. It's really about building that real social home in this neighborhood. Cultural artistic society in the village is also being restored. The villagers return to live in their home village, etc. etc. And I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2060	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 74th also represented by Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2061	The amendment is not accepted. That programme has been notified on call. It will be considered and an appropriate decision will be made.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2062	Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2063	It's just like the Djurdians. Someone here wrote Budrovac by mistake. It's about the Budrovs, a pure Slavonic shock spot. At the moment, there is a building permit for this social home, and this village is known among other things and that Mr. Palaric, State Secretary, without the agreement of the city council, wanted to make a decision to make this village an independent municipality. So the intention of the city is to invest in this suburban settlement and create conditions for a normal social life. And as far as I can tell, no amendment like this is going to be adopted, so maybe we should cut the whole story short. Thank you. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2064	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Representatives Sonja Šimunović and Igor Dragovan. Next amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2065	The amendment is not accepted. The Ministry of Culture in accordance with the Law on the financing of public... He's making a public call. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That programme is not logged in, and cannot be accepted as such.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2066	Representative Sonja Šimunović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2067	Dear Vice President, Your Honor. The creation of urban programs for youth in the town of Slavonski Brod, which was adopted, has established a parallel association of the Youth Centre. Young people from all political parties participated in the adoption of the programme. The City Council made a decision assigning the Youth Center Association to its activities that space. This is a building where a cinema was once built in 1920 and is located in a protected historical part of the city and has a cultural heritage property. The building is in a very bad devasted state, not at all for use. The county and the city have established a lot of funds for reconstruction, however it is not enough and aid from the state budget is needed. Therefore, I am asking for a vote and I particularly appeal to representatives from Slavonski Brod and Brod-Posavina County to support this amendment because it is indeed about the young people of our city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2068	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the votes he needed. Representatives Dragica Zgrebec and Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2069	The amendment is not accepted. That programme is not logged in, and cannot be accepted as such.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2070	Representative Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2071	Dear Minister, we will report this project in that case if it hasn't been reported. Otherwise, I remind you, when you arrived in Međimurje County, you often pointed out as a sort of specificity to registering a cultural centre in Međimurje County. Why are the Međimurians doing this? Because homes, or cultural centres, are actually central and the only places in small communities, so in small municipalities where complete and cultural and social and every other life takes place. In this context for the municipality of Strahoninec I highlight one detail, one specificity. So, extremely valuable, excellent results from young informers who exactly in one such home expect their own living space. Since there are small municipalities, small environments in their budgets cannot provide sufficient resources for the implementation of these projects. Here I am, after all, appealing that when we report this project that it is adopted and I still ask for a vote in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2072	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The next amendment is also representative Dragica Zgrebec and Nadica Jelas.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2073	The amendment is not accepted. That programme has not been reported in this form and cannot be accepted, but individual programmes for the rehabilitation of the parish court in Sunday and the rehabilitation of the church in Macinac have been reported which will be considered and the appropriate decision taken.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2074	Representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2075	In fact, this is about continuing to resuscitate vaults, walls and altars in these churches, so I united it into one, or colleague, and I united it into one amendment. Work is planned for which tenders worth millions and 875000 kuna have already been opened, and since they are individually registered to the Ministry of Culture, we expect that funds will be found for these purposes. In spite of the fact that every time we do get some funding through the tenders, I suggest we vote on these amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2076	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 78. IDS agent club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2077	The amendment is not accepted. That programme has not been reported and cannot be accepted as such.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2078	Representative Marin Brkarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2079	Mr. Minister, I would, however, ask that this amendment be accepted, given that the Ministry of Culture is also accepted for the reason that the very purchase of the palace is indicated here precisely for the establishment of the museum of sacral art. We know that Poreč I would say extremely significant not only as a tourist center but also as a cultural one. Here is Frazius basilica, a monument protected by UNESCO and the town of Poreč is intended to buy that palace and prays for the support of the Ministry of Culture of 15 million kunas, since it is a private-owned building where there is the right of the first purchase of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the city of Poreč itself. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2080	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The next amendment is also the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2081	The amendment is not accepted. That programme is not registered in this form and cannot be accepted as such. Individual events in Istria, Pula Film Festival, Book Fair, Motovun Film Festival, dance festival and non-bal theatre festival, international theatre festival,... which will be considered and brought by appropriate... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2082	Representative Marin Brkarić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2083	Mr. Ministers, since I believe that the Ministry of Culture will support these projects, which are listed here, means starting from Pula film festivals that make up every year to a book fair in Istria that has an international affirmation and other meanings of the Motovun Film Festival. I will not insist on voting, I suggest that the Ministry support programmes, projects that it supports every year in Istria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2084	Thank you very much. Amendment withdrawn. 80 also Club of IDS Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2085	The amendment is not accepted. That programme has not been reported and cannot be accepted as such.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2086	Representative Marin Brkarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2087	Here I will ask you to vote on this amendment. It is the very Grožnjan, the Grožnjan cultural summer, as well as the cultural center of Croatian music youth. The estimated amount of funds would be directed to rebuild the building itself, i.e. city galleries and programmes itself, means art colonies and other cultural programmes. I'd like to ask you to vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2088	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The following is also the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2089	The amendment is not accepted. That programme has been notified on call, will be considered and an appropriate decision will be taken.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2090	Representative Marin Brkarić please, or who? Boris Miletic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2091	We're withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2092	Retracted. Thank you very much. Amendment withdrawn. 82 MP Mario Habek.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2093	The amendment is not accepted. That programme has been notified and will be considered and an appropriate decision will be taken.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2094	Representative Mario Habek.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2095	Dear Vice President, Your Honor. I am grateful that Mr. Minister has determined that the program has been reported. The first one is reported, and I hope both of them will be considered. Here, let me... I briefly express my vision, i.e. the vision of the city, which is why this home of the cultural centre is needed in Ivanca. [[You don't understand.]] The town of Ivanec is facing a major problem of lack of space. This space would satisfy the urban and cultural needs of the inhabitants, primarily relating to the accommodation of the city library and the reading room whose present area of surface and quality does not meet the conditions in question. The cultural centre would also accommodate a space for various cultural events and civil society associations. Also... open school with activities of music school, various courses, requalification and schooling. [[You don't understand.]] I'm asking you to consider this program, the project we sent you, and I hope you'll support it in the near future and ask for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2096	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 83 representatives of Branko Crlenko.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2097	The amendment is not accepted. That programme has been notified on call, will be considered and will take the appropriate decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2098	Representative Branko Crlenko, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2099	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister of the fortress of St. Nicholas was built in the middle of the 16th century and it is the order of the strongest fortification facilities on the Croatian coast of the Adriatic. There are only two other species in the Mediterranean, one is in Malta and the other is at the entrance to Venice. It is a monument of a zero category where emergency conservation and restoration works are necessary on the entire fortress. They were last spent at the end of the 20th century. So I ask that my amendment be put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2100	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 84 MPs, Luke Denone.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2101	The amendment is not accepted. The Ministry of Culture, in accordance with the Law on the financing of public needs in culture, issued a public call, the programme is not registered and cannot be accepted as such.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2102	A representative of Luke Denon.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2103	Of course, as it is about the cultural monument, the protected core of the town of Kastava and how the city began to rebuild this significant cultural monument, but there are no significant means to complete these works, I think that one city such as Kastav where the first Croatian camp was held in the wider vicinity of the city where we brought the first Castatic code deserved a little attention from the Ministry of Culture that one such monument of culture... The Church of Holy Mary finally ends and restores and I demand a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2104	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 85 club representatives of IDS.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2105	The amendment is not accepted. That programme has been notified on call, will be considered and an appropriate decision will be taken.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2106	Representative Marin Brkarić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2107	Mr. Minister, our amendment is aimed right at the assembly of the motovon gallery. The Municipality of Motovun and Motovun itself is famous for the Motovun Film Festival, but we certainly want to make the rest of the cultural offer rich. The gallery itself would have the foundation of Miroslav Shute, we appreciate that it is an extremely valuable project and I pray that this amendment be voted upon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2108	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Representatives Sonja Šimunović and representative Igor Dragovan.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2109	The amendment is not accepted. The Ministry of Culture has issued a public call under the Law on the financing of public needs in culture. That programme has not been reported and cannot be accepted as such.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2110	Representative Sonja Šimunović please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2111	Here, I'm just going to say the fact the couple is based on a contract between the town of Brod and Dragutin Tadic since '89. year, that Tadic donated to the town of Slavonski Brod with the intention of presenting it in the Memorial of Dragutin Tadjanovic. The project has been under way since 2004 where certain funds have been allocated. Otherwise it's a ground floor area of Horvat Palace, which is protected as a monument of culture. The work was carried out in 2005. In 2006, he also followed the follow-up. But now there are no more funds. Thank you, and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2112	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. We'll interrupt the amendment debate in no time. Ladies and gentlemen! Members of the delegation of the Parliament of the Kingdom of Denmark who are on official visit to the Croatian Parliament have just joined us in the gallery assembly. It is an extraordinary honor and pleasure for me to welcome Mr Thor Pedersen, President of the Parliament of the Kingdom of Denmark and the Presidency of the Kingdom of Denmark as well as members of the delegation on behalf of both representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Representatives Sonja Šimunović, Igor Dragovan 87th Amendment. [[Applause.]] 87.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2113	The amendment is not accepted. That programme is not designed and cannot be accepted as such.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2114	Representative Sonja Šimunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2115	87th, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2116	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2117	It's about the Brlic family house. So, Croatian writer Ivana Brlic-Mažuranić lived in the house until her marriage to Vatroslav Brlic. The house was built in 1885. The town of Brod has been since '97. Then, in order to protect the facility and the arrangements, he carried out rehabilitation and various interventions. It has not come to an end today and continued work is again the necessary funding from the budget. Thank you, and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2118	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The next amendment is also a representative of Sonja Šimunović and a representative... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2119	The amendment is not accepted. This application has not been reported and cannot be accepted as such.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2120	Representative Sonja Šimunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2121	It's about the building... For purposes called Croatian home the same, from 1925. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The building ran long, severely damaged. After the end of the Homeland War, the city took emergency interventions to the office. Rehabilitation, roof construction, ceilings and further work is needed. I put the same thing to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2122	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Representatives Goran Beus Richembergh and Tonino Picula.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2123	The amendment is not accepted. That programme has been notified on call. It will be considered and an appropriate decision will be made.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2124	Representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2125	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is fortunate, Mr. Minister, that as a native Turopoljj, I do not have to warn you in this sense how important it is and the meaning of Lukavec of the city for the cultural identity of Turopolje. And in this sense, I hope, given that the Government does not accept this amendment, that the Ministry of Culture will be betraying this year so that the environment of this establishment can finally be brought into one form by many unique things in Croatia, into one issue that will be representative that the Lukavec city could get its final purpose as soon as possible, because it is known that its adaptation or reconstruction has lasted for 10 years. And it's precisely because the long-term process is already slowly beginning to fail. Please vote on the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2126	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority of MPs, Dragica Zgrebec and Nadice Jelas.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2127	The amendment is not accepted. That programme has been notified and will be considered and an appropriate decision will be taken.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2128	Representative Nadica Jelaš or Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2129	It is about the restoration of the old town in Čakovec, the town of Zrinski where the meetings of the Croatian Assembly were held during the Ban of Nikola Zrinski. Since the recovery has been carried out for several decades, and only a year ago have the rehabilitation projects been built and the revitalisation plan has been completed, all necessary permits have been obtained, we expect that at least 10 million kuna will be participated by the state budget in 2008. But I will still ask to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2130	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 91st Agents Daniel Mondekar and Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2131	The amendment is not accepted. That programme has been notified on call. It will be considered and an appropriate decision will be made.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2132	Agent Daniel Mondekar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2133	Dear Vice President, Your Honor! As you know, it's a monument to a culture of zeroth category that is unfortunately falling apart, which is maximumly rehabilitated by county funds, but needs state aid. This amendment wouldn't be, but simply last year, the project was rejected right on... culture, so I'm asking the vote now on this amendment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2134	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority of MPs, Dragica Zgrebec and Nadice Jelas.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2135	The amendment is not accepted. That programme has not been reported and cannot be accepted as such.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2136	Representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2137	Here, I'm from a second attempt to suggest to the Ministry of Culture that he is following the Project of the Museum of Mining in the area of the town of Mursko Središče. Namely, this was traditionally a mining area. Interestingly, the first few kilometers of the pipeline was built in the 19th century. So it's draining and oil. We wish that tradition hadn't been forgotten. Projects have already been made. And in the course of the year, the city will apply with this project and to the Ministry of Culture contest, so we expect at least this year symbolic funds. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2138	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Next amendment to the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2139	The amendment is not accepted. That programme is not registered and cannot be accepted as such. Although the project "Spital" in Gračis alone these days was completed with a total of 80% of the funds invested by the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2140	Representative Marin Brkarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2141	Mr Minister, we would certainly insist on the adoption of this amendment, i.e. the amendment vote for the reason of the Municipality of Gračisna, a municipality with mountain-mounted status, a municipality that has been renovating the old town's core for a number of years, means a monument of culture under protection and we think that this fund of one million and 750 thousand kuna would be a significant support, with the municipality running for the same time as the old city's core infrastructure project on pre-accession funds of the European Union. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2142	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 94th Amendment is also a Club of IDS Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2143	The amendment is not accepted. That programme has not been reported and cannot be accepted as such.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2144	Representative Marin Brkarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2145	Since the small town of Fažana has been neglected for years since the opposite of the Brijuni islands and since the isolation and establishment of the Fažana municipality has been strongly reshuffled in the reconstruction of the old town's core and since numerous findings have also been found in the area and in the absence of funds due to the centralisation of the state and the small budget, we have therefore run this amendment to help reconstruct the old town's core. So please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2146	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 95th Amendment is also a Club of Representatives of the IDS.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2147	The Ministry of Culture, the amendment is not accepted. The Ministry of Culture... with the law on the financing of public needs in culture and sets out a public call in all public media written for the financing of the programme. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That programme is not registered and cannot be accepted as such.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2148	Representative Boris Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2149	The town of Vodnjan has started to reconstruct the people's square, the parish square and the streets of Kastelo. I would like to point out that this has been registered within the urban city of Vodnjan since 1981 as a monument of culture and registered in the Register of immovable monuments of culture. Since the work is under way and significant funds of the local self-government unit have already been invested, we are also asking the City of Vodnjan to recognise this project and therefore we have asked for this amendment to be included in the budget of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, I ask that the amendment be voted upon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2150	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 96th Amendment is also a Club of Representatives of the IDS.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2151	The amendment is not accepted. That programme is not registered and cannot be accepted as such.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2152	Representative Marin Brkarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2153	Here, I'd like to ask you to take a vote on this amendment. The project Završje as a protected monument of culture has been restored for many years with the funds of the Municipality of Grožnjan and Istrian County. We have certainly also run for pre-accession European Union funds. We appreciate that support for this 3 million kuna project would also be important for the restoration of the parish church itself and for the restoration of the frescoes as well as for the continuation of the restoration of the project itself. Thank you. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2154	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 97th Amendment is also a Club of IDS Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2155	The amendment is not accepted. That programme has been notified on call, will be considered and an appropriate decision will be taken.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2156	Representative Marin Brkarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2157	Mr. Minister, since the ministry has been following Kaštel's recovery so far... And since you said you were going to be considering yourself asking 500 thousand kuna to resuscitate Kaštel himself, so this is a continuation of the resolution, since it requires large funds, it is located in Kanfanar municipality in central Istria. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We will withdraw this amendment. We believe that the ministry will give the necessary funds and monitor the reconstruction of the Kaštel itself and in 2008. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2158	Thank you. Amendment 97 withdrawn. 98th Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2159	The amendment is not accepted. That programme has been notified and will be considered and an appropriate decision will be taken. In fact, this is already being resolved for several years, the Motovun walls that have been compromised.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2160	Representative Marin Brkarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2161	As far as the Motovun walls themselves are concerned, we know that they collapsed a few years ago, that both the Istrian County and the municipality of Motovun and the ministry itself supported the motovun wall rehabilitation project. This programme itself wants to continue and in 2008, we are looking for only a co-financing of millions and 100,000 kunas. The significance of Motovun himself as a historical core in central Istria, I think everyone is famous, and I would ask to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2162	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 99th Amendment is also a Club of IDS Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2163	The amendment is not accepted. That programme is not registered and cannot be accepted as such.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2164	Representative Marin Brkarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2165	Mr. Minister, here I would like to ask again since this is about the town of Pazin and since it is already part of the procedures that need to be carried out. I'd just like to mention some churches of St. John's. Mary on the Shrills, Church of St. Peter and Paul in Troviz, the frontal of Kaštela in Pazin, the church of St. Nicole, the frescoes, the arrangements of the home for the writers. Thus, total demand is for these 965,000 kunas for projects in Pazin itself, i.e. for the protection and rehabilitation of cultural and monumental heritage in the very centre of Istria County. I'm asking you to take a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2166	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Next amendment to the IDS Club of Representatives 100.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2167	The amendment is not accepted. That programme is not registered and cannot be accepted as such.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2168	Representative Marin Brkarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2169	Mr. Minister, this is a request addressed by the municipality of Pićan, a municipality with modest budgets. The "baron's palace" itself is a monument of culture and prays or asks for a million kunas for the reconstruction of the "baron's palace" itself, given that it is the same today in a ruinous state to protect the monument of culture itself. Please vote on the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2170	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 101st Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2171	The amendment is not accepted. That programme has been notified on call, will be considered and an appropriate decision will be taken.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2172	Representative Marin Brkarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2173	Mr. Minister, we will withdraw this amendment since you said that a decision would be made on him as he was registered to the Ministry of Culture program. We believe he will support himself in terms of importance and need, and since it is the municipality of St. Lovrec, once again a smaller municipality, with modest budgets. And the amount of $400,000 will certainly be worth the recovery of the project itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2174	Amendment 101 withdrawn. Amendment 102. IDS agent club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2175	The amendment is not accepted. The program has been notified on call, will be considered and an appropriate decision will be made.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2176	Marin Brkaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2177	Here, Mr. Minister, I would certainly insist that this restoration of the Castle itself be helped, given that it is the municipality of Sovièent, we know that every year a festival of dance and non-verbal theatre is held in this municipality, especially important development, that we say in the inner part of Istria, the funds are 200 thousand kunas, with the help of the municipality of Sovicent, the Istrian County, I believe that the Ministry can give this support, in that direction, since you said that it would be considered in the culture programme, I would withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2178	Amendment 102, withdrawn. Amendment 102. IDS representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2179	The amendment is not accepted because that programme has been declared, will be considered and made an appropriate decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2180	Representative Marin Brkarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2181	Here I would like to withdraw this amendment, since it has been indicated that it has been reported and we believe that support will be given in this section, meaning the requested funds 300 thousand kuna for the very rehabilitation of the church. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2182	Amendment 103 is withdrawn. Amendment 104. IDS representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2183	The amendment is not accepted, that application has been notified on call. It will be considered, a proper decision will be made.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2184	Representative Marin Brkarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2185	Here, Mr. Minister, since I was once again told that the amendment itself would be, that is, to be considered, given that it was registered to a cultural programme, we would give up this amendment by believing that it would be supported by this project within the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2186	Amendment 104 is withdrawn. Amendment 105. IDS representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2187	The amendment is not accepted, that programme is not registered and cannot be accepted as such.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2188	Representative Marin Brkarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2189	Here, I would insist on voting on this amendment, given that it is the municipality of Vidinada, the restoration of the Church of St. Jerome's in Vizinada. Since the municipality has little resources in its budget and de facto this part requires co-financing of the project itself to resuscitate the church of St. The Jeronims in Vidinada. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2190	I'm sorry, is it an amendment? Is it necessary to vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2191	Yes!
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2192	Please, who's in favor of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 96. IDS representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2193	The amendment is not accepted. That programme has been notified and will be considered and an appropriate decision will be taken.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2194	Representative Marin Brkarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2195	Here, in this part of the amendment, we will withdraw, since you are, that decision will be made within the framework of the Ministry of Culture's programme. We'd like to pray that we can certainly continue with the reconstruction of Kastel himself... Because it has been running for many years and certainly 500 thousand kuna funds, there will be funds that will be pooled together with the city of Buja and Istria County to continue the reconstruction of Kaštel himself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2196	Thank you. Amendment withdrawn. Amendment 107 to MP Mirela Holy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2197	The amendment is not accepted. The planned funds in this position shall be sufficient and shall comply with the requirements of the nature protection institution and shall not need to be increased.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2198	Representative Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2199	Dear Ministers, the purpose of this amendment was to develop a reform plan for public institutions, agencies, institutions, public enterprises, how special powers are managed by natural goods. It is necessary, wherever possible, to implement their unification and rounding, and to create one agency in order to bring together standards of business and modes of work, unification of joint services, supply of goods and services, planning, promotion, sales, award of concessions, education, financing and information. In doing so, it is necessary to plan to strengthen the powers of such a natural-good management agency and the existing public institutions should be organised as a branch office of the state agency without legal or financial personality and to carry out a regional approach, i.e. decentralisation with regional agencies. That's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2200	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 108th amendment of Mr. Marin Jurjevic's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2201	The amendment is not accepted. Given the current scientific and expertise related to... and its availability in the Adriatic, in cooperation with the Institute of Oceanography and Fisheries from Split, it is possible to conduct monitoring and prevention of expansion on individual less affected sites. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Ministry of Culture is of the opinion that the funds provided for this purpose are sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2202	Thank you. Mr. Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2203	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, I've been talking about this for a few years... I'm always talking about how small the funds are. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I get the answer that they're enough and the algae are progressing. So the funds are sufficient, progressing, Mr. Minister, so it's about preventing the spread... It's about the algae... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] by the fact that in the 1990s the taxifoli has been affected by the Croatian part of the Adriatic, Ramos from 2000 onwards,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] She arrived in the meantime, she's even more dangerous. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I note that two national parks of Mljet and Kornat have been affected. That the Bay of Starigrad, the Bay of Barbarians, Malinska, so Hvar, Rab, Krk, Pakleni or Pakleni islets, Caftat, Pelješac, Mljet, Hvar, Bisevo are affected. I'm warning simply not just because I live at sea, I think it's all our business to protect the Adriatic. And I know about this collaboration with the oceanographic institute in Split, that's for every praise, I know there are other things. That you're bonding with the PHAR program and so on. I know there are some programmes national and so on. But it seems to me that not enough is 840 thousand kuna. And I suggest 15 million, I don't think those funds are comparable to what we should protect and that's the Croatian Adriatic. Here, thank you, I beg you to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2204	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 109th Amendment by Mr. Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2205	The amendment is not accepted. Strossmayer's perimeter in Đakov is a monument of park architecture and the management of monuments of park architecture in the jurisdiction of the county institution, therefore it is financed from the funds of local administration and self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2206	Thank you. Mr. Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2207	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. The city has produced a historical study of Strossmayer's perivo, it is protected and not exclusively, its value is not exclusively urban or countyal, but it is one of the most beautiful monuments of park architecture in Croatia, and I would dare say in this part of Europe. The project also supports the diocese of Djakovačka and Srijemska. It is that there are still several obstacles about the border on the protection of the park since in this part of the park is located and, within the border of the park, there is a home of health, as well as a home for older and powerless persons. At the same time in this park, Strossmayer’s park is being held and the famous “Jakovki bonds” that will be held 42 times this year. I don't think the city can find its own resources, this is just the first phase of the resolution of Strossmayer's perivo, it can't find its own means of maintaining protected goods, or protected park architecture. And I believe that the ministry through its resources can contribute significantly to the preservation of this monument and ask for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2208	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 110th Amendment of Representatives Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh and Tonino Picula.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2209	The amendment is not accepted. Under heading 7 7 90 17, the disposal of protected species provides for funds for the collection of monetary donations of basic entities exclusively for live animals for wild animals. The means of preservation and protection of indigenous breeds shall be provided through means of regular activities of state-level institutions, e.g. Nature park Lonjsko polje, and funds for institutions at regional level are provided through the budget of units of regional and local self-government. It's true that this species was very endangered, but it's almost gone. But last year I visited the Park of Nature Lonjsko polje convinced that such a family, a large family of about 70 Turopoljahs there, is very well in the mood, in good health worries our administration which is in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Culture Lonjsko polje. I hope this year even the family has increased.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2210	Thank you. Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2211	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, I remind you that this is not about a flock living in the Lonjsko field, but rather about several hundred pieces of Turopolian pig, which is after 10 years, I would dare say, a very hard work of experts and enthusiasts saved and brought into the right environment where it was created. So to Turopolje. It is two groups of several hundred Greeks stored in Turopoljska Lug and Sijakovačka Dubrava. Meanwhile, the problem of brucellosis is saddened by the Ministry of Agriculture which is very involved in the discussions on this problem, but also by the veterinary administration is treated exclusively as a veterinary issue and we know that brucellosis is a disease of breeding, or fertilisation system, although it has never been so young before. So it was a paradox, and it happened that the required action was to lift a five-centimeter ground cover in both forests, which is impossible to theoretically or practically implement, and now it is already coming to a violation of charges against the responsible persons of the noble municipality of Turopol, who in all its forces and ways is trying to preserve the breed from destruction. I ask you once again if it is possible for the Ministry of Culture to be involved in this problem and to help and hoping that colleagues from Turopolje will be involved in Dr. Kundic and Mr. Fiolić support this amendment. I'm asking you to vote on him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2212	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. It is up to 111 amendments to Mr. Zlatko Korajevic's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2213	The amendment is not accepted. Care for this category, the protection of nature “Arboretum” is in the jurisdiction of the county. A programme to resuscitate the castle as a monument of culture has been reported at the invitation to protect the monuments. It will be considered and an appropriate decision will be made.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2214	Thank you. Mr. Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2215	Mr. Minister, first of all, I am pleased that the citizens of Vinica and Varazdin County have given you support in these last elections and that you have been elected from this constituency to the Croatian Parliament. Secondly, I am convinced that you know the problem of this entire area and I am convinced that I simply do not believe that your associates did not tell you that the property is owned by this facility and the castle and “Arboretum” that it is the owner of the state. So, we're in one illogical position. The county must do something and the county has requested ownership of this space primarily in order to further prevent the further collapse of the entire complex, and we know that this “Arboretum” is the only “Arboretum”, the continental “Arboretum” in the country. Therefore, it would be correct for the state and the owner to include that space and to treat it as responsible for their property. In any case, the county is willing to join the project, but it is a prerequisite to gain ownership of that space. Please vote on that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2216	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 112 of the IDS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2217	The amendment is not accepted. That programme has been notified on call. It will be considered and an appropriate decision will be made.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2218	Here we are from the IDS club withdrawing the amendment since it's registered in the culture program, so we're not asking for a vote on it. Please accept the amount indicated here by a million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2219	Who's in favour of this amendment? Did you pull? I didn't hear, I'm sorry. Thank you very much. IDS representative club 113.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2220	The amendment is not accepted. The program's been reported. It will be considered and an appropriate decision will be made.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2221	We're giving up the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2222	Thank you. The amendment has been withdrawn. IDS representative club 114. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2223	The amendment is not accepted. That programme is not logged in, and cannot be accepted as such.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2224	Here you go, Mr. Brcaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2225	Here I am going to ask you to take a vote on the amendment after all. The building of a gallery in the municipality of Visinada is indicated here by the spatial plan and the urban plan itself of building such a gallery. The cultural offer in Visinada itself would certainly be valuable and we ask that the amendment be voted on, the amount is 200 thousand kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2226	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 115 Madam Representatives Dragica Zgrebec and Nadice Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2227	The amendment is not accepted. That programme has been notified, on call and will be considered and an appropriate decision will be taken.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2228	Mrs. Zgrebec, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2229	Thank you, Mr. President. I am pleased to discuss this project as well. It is about the system of protection of the library and further informing the City Library Čakovec which actually covers the entire county since you say that this project will be discussed in the competition.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2230	Thank you. This amendment has been withdrawn. 116 Amendments to the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2231	The amendment is not accepted. The specified application is not logged in and cannot be accepted as such.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2232	Mr. Minister to vote on the amendment. It is a project to print books "Istra in Time" The Centre for Historical Research from Rovinj together with Istria County. The amount is 100 thousand kuna in support of the project itself. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2233	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 117 IDS MPs' clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2234	The amendment is not accepted. That programme has been reported, will be considered and an appropriate decision will be taken.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2235	I will withdraw the amendment myself since it will be discussed within the framework of the ministry's culture programme. I'll just mention that it's a single project in the former mine area in Labin, it means just editing the city library space, but it's also a multimedia cultural centre on the very site and editing or rescheduling the shoht, meaning that export part of the facility, means one mining symbol in the area of Labin itself. I would ask that this programme be supported within the Ministry of Culture itself, given its importance to the city itself, the cultural offer of Labin, but also much wider. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2236	The amendment has been withdrawn. IDS representative club 118 amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2237	The amendment is not accepted. The program is registered on call, will be considered and an appropriate decision will be made.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2238	Thank you. Mr. Brkaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2239	In that case, we would withdraw the amendment given that it has been reported and we believe it will be accepted in the amount of a million kuna for editing the City Library in Novigrad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2240	The amendment has been withdrawn. Ms. Representative Dragica Zgrebec and Nadica Jelas 119.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2241	The amendment is not accepted. The programme has been reported, will be considered and an appropriate decision will be made.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2242	Thank you. Mrs. Zgrebec, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2243	Thank you very much. The amendment refers to the purchase of a modern digital cinema projector system. Our city, i.e. the entire county actually has a high visit to cinema shows, we are at the top of Croatia and while some cities are closing their cinema halls there we want to increase the viewership of films. Since you say it'll be discussed soon, I'll withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2244	Thank you. The amendment has been withdrawn. Mr. Representative Luke Denon 120 amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2245	The amendment is not accepted. The program is not registered and cannot be accepted as such.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2246	Thank you. Mr. Denon, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2247	Mr. Minister, if apoxiomone should be reported something that is not only of Croatian cultural well-being but also of world heritage, then I really have no say that something like an apoxiomone is not reported. You are the owner, the state is the owner of this one world monument of culture and that he did not find a place in the 2008 budget with initial funds to find him a place and a house in Mali Losinj as promised, it's really sad, so if it's also from the Ministry of Culture. I'm asking to vote on this amendment and I'd find it interesting for Mayor Little Losinj to see how you won't raise your hand for the apoxiomone in Little Losinj.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2248	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 121 amendments by Mr. Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2249	The amendment is not accepted. The programme has been reported, will be considered and an appropriate decision will be made.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2250	Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2251	I thank the Ministry of Culture for the support and follow-up of the Giakovia Unions so far. I just want to say that the "Djakovci binds" with "Vinkovčka fall" are the biggest event not only in Croatia but also in this part of Europe. I will withdraw the amendment, but I demand that the Djakovci bonds be monitored in the same amount as the "Vinkova fall" and the International Folklore Survey in Zagreb. Since peers are years and years of what they bring. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2252	Thank you. The amendment has been withdrawn. 122 amendments by MPs also Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2253	The amendment is not accepted. The Ministry of Culture, in accordance with the Law on the financing of public needs in culture, issued a public call for funding of the programme. The ministry respects the law, will respect the future. Therefore, that programme and all those programmes which have not been notified to that call cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2254	Thank you. Mr. Agent Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2255	Given that it is the largest and most beautiful, first of all, sacral square in Croatia that has been limited to Đakovska cathedral, Strossmayer's cathedral, which was the lighthouse of Croatia in this area and which, alongside the Homeland War and defended Slavonia and Croatia and limited to Strossmayer's perivo, bishop's curiosities, the seminary building, this programme is also registered in the Ministry of Regional Development itself, but I believe that here and the Ministry of Culture must be given additional funds specifically for archaeological research, because it is not the intention of the city to do archaeological research and this law is in the extreme line since I would say it is a general Croatian good, I believe that the Ministry of Culture should pay for archaeological research and not an investor, in this case the city of Đakovo. Normally, we are also looking for the participation of the Ministry of Culture in financing the construction of Joseph Jurj Strossmayer Square itself. I think Bishop Strossmayer himself has earned one such square. I'm asking for a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2256	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 123rd Amendment by representatives Tanja Vrbat and Dino Kozlevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2257	The amendment is not accepted. That programme is not registered and cannot be accepted as such.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2258	Thank you. Mr. Coslevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2259	Here you are, Your Honors President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister. It's about a museum in the city of Umag in the city that means an area that witnessed the stormy times as well as all these spaces. It's about an extremely well-collected, collected structure in that space. And one museum that needs a reconstruction would either say rebuilding or solve it properly. No matter what the city of Umag is, it is one of the cities that solves many of its needs and through legal obligations because it has to be solved because they are in its territory. We therefore felt that it would be very correct and necessary and opportunised that the Ministry of Culture participates in the project, not only of importance for the city of Umag but also of a wider area. I'm asking you to vote on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2260	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 124 of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2261	The amendment is not accepted. The program's been reported. It will be considered and an appropriate decision will be made.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2262	On behalf of the Club of Representatives Mr Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2263	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary! I won't insist on voting. I expect that the ministry will be involved so that we can complete this research in the small Roman theatre in Pula and that again a small Roman theatre could serve the very purpose for which it is intended, which is precisely cultural events and the possibility that tourists, visitors to the city of Pula, will visit this site normally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2264	Thank you. The amendment has been withdrawn. Thank you. Mr. Gordana Sobol's 125th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2265	The amendment is not accepted. The funds for this purpose are also significantly higher than those provided through various programmes co-financed through the Ministry of Culture in the context of public needs in culture. There is an exceptional sensitivity to this issue in the ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2266	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2267	My amendment went towards one way and symbolically setting and government through amounts in this case, through all the ministries that would be designed for national policy implementation. With this amendment, I particularly wanted to warn that the Ministry of Culture also has a specific obligation from national policy, and it concerns improving the efficiency of protection against sexual discrimination and violation of the right to privacy in media legislation through amendments and additions to existing laws. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2268	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you very much, Minister. We move to the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, Minister Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go. 126th Amendment of Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2269	The government does not accept this amendment. The state ergel of the Lipians in Đakov is of course the central place of breeding horse breed in the Republic of Croatia. Every year we provide funds related to her work. This year, 5 million and 400,000 kunas were provided for regular business. And a special item provides an additional 6 million kuna for the construction of the yacht. And I believe in her ending. We also have another item of 300 thousand kuna for the purchase of machinery. And we think that's enough resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2270	Thank you. Mr. Agent Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2271	Mr. President, Mr. Minister! I believe that this amount of 5 million and 400 thousand kuna is not enough for the normal functioning of the State Ergela in Đakova, since the state ergel still does not have its own land but has not received a concession contract. Also, this amount of 6 million kuna that is scheduled for the end of the ride is not enough. Since the former administrative council has therefore made a decision or has not taken the decision of the city of Djakova to release the payment of the municipal contribution, they have requested payment of the municipal contribution. And at this point, the ergel is due somewhere around the city of Djakov for a communal contribution that is already charged, somewhere around 3 million kuna with legal interest. I don't know if you're familiar with that. That was done by the HDZ Administrative Council. The city wanted to free, but they did not accept it because they believed that in 2005, it would come to power in local elections. Unfortunately, sleeping was a beautiful dream that didn't come true. Just as the minister would ask you to appoint a board of directors as soon as possible and to examine this case that was with Lipicance Batost, given that there was a dismissal of the former director of the ergele. I don't think it's such a situation. It's not necessary for a national bachelor or the city of Djakovo. I demand a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2272	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 127th Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2273	The government does not accept this amendment. We implement the program through the Croatian cattle centre with outposts in every county that runs the animal database, and the ministry pays off. The formation of a centre for three indigenous breeds in Istria we think would be extremely irrational, because you know well that we can take care of it as it was now through the Croatian cattle centre.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2274	Thank you. Sir... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2275	Here you go, Mr. Minister. We would certainly insist on this amendment and ask for a vote on it. It's about the Centre for the Conservation and Reproduction of Istrian endangered breeds. So first of all, it's an Istrian beef or a bokary. To this end, the Istrian County, together with the town of Pazin and Puris, has allocated spaces to be arranged for this purpose. And I think it would be good for the Ministry of Agriculture to also support this project in the requested 5,000 kuna, which means saving Istrian cattle and other endangered breeds in the Istrian county. We're looking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2276	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 128th Amendment of Representatives Nenad Stazic, Milanka Opačić, Josip Leko, Bruno Kurelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2277	The government does not accept this amendment. I would like to explain that in the part of the cattle industry related to the operational programme of developing livestock production, the funds have been significantly increased and there is the possibility that the resolution of these problems in the transfer of two farms in the municipality of Draganić will be made through direct reporting to the programme, and we also have a special item in rural infrastructure where 25 million kuna is provided precisely to build infrastructure to existing production facilities such as these farms, so here is the recommendation that when the tenders are announced, this problem is solved in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2278	Thank you. Representative Mr. Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2279	Ministers, you say there are funds in other positions, a public call will be issued again, and they can report on the removal of the two farms from the centre of the settlement in the municipality of Draganic. They can't be farms out there, they're in the way. These farmers, they have the land they received from the Republic of Croatia outside Draganic. Now you say there's gonna be a public call. This amendment, as well as my previous amendment, goes after the annulment of Jarnjak's instruction that the money is being received by those units of local self-government from the state budget, only those in which the HDZ is in power. By accepting such an amendment, a concrete amendment, you guarantee to those farmers and residents of the municipality of Draganić that they will receive money from the state budget for this project. Otherwise, the threat remains that our colleague and HDZ Secretary General Jarnjak said regarding Sinja "Don't change the power, don't count on the money from the budget.". Therefore, I demand a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2280	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Otherwise, the political term "Jarnjak's Lesson" is not yet registered, so when it does, we'll be able to do it. Until then, let us refrain from these and such qualifications in a comment on the amendments. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Agent Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2281	Your Honor, Mr. President, I refer to Article 209. Honorable representative Nenad Stazic persistently insults, ships and deceives the public about some lessons and something. A press conference in Sinj was held yesterday where it was clearly said what it was and in what way it was. Therefore, I ask you to protect me from insulting Mr. Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2282	Thank you very much. As far as I'm concerned, I'm protecting anyone within the Rules of Procedure. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2283	I refer to the same article, 209th Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2284	What's that?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2285	The same 209 that a fellow Jarnjak otherwise called to speak of correcting an incorrect quote has nothing to do with what he said. But I'm asking Mr. President to protect all MPs, and so am I from the expression of my fellow Capricorn to lie, and I'm not lying. I am not lying because there is a written document that Mr. Jarnjak has signed and has been publicly announced on the offer of Sinj to move to HDZ, whether or not to change the legally elected power can count on funds from the state budget. Otherwise, the money won't get you. So it's not about any lies or delusions, it's about one document.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2286	Gentlemen, calling on Article 209 is a call for you to have the right to apply for damage to the Rules of Procedure, to request the right to speak about it, not what article is injured. Therefore, the abuse of Article 209 is that you state what you are entitled to. So no one contests having the right under Article 209 but only has to state which article is injured in the Rules of Procedure and does not state the right to exercise that right. Article 129 of the IDS Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2287	The government does not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2288	It's not an article. It's an amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2289	The government does not accept this amendment. The project of building a fish market in Poreč was launched in 2005 by the signing of a social contract involving Poreč d.o.o., with equal stakes 25% of the city of Istria... The fishing cooperative Istria and the ministry. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This ministry has invested through the founding share and funds for the capitalisation of 2 million kunas in accordance with the social contract for the establishment of a wholesaler and this amount is secured in the item relating to the projects for the construction of fishing wholesalers and shares and shares in the main company in the public sector.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2290	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS, Mr. Representative Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2291	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, Mr. President. The fact is that a fish market in Poreč is being built like that in the Primorje-Gorski County and the fact is that around 18 million kuna has been invested in the project so far. I'll just say that the city of Poreč and Istria County, that they invested 10 million kunas and the truth is that the ministry invested 2 million kunas, but it's also true that by virtue of Law 84 of 2001, the Republic of Italy participates in the financing of this project of 6 million kuna. That's two projects of meaning. One is in Istria County, the other is in the Primorje-Gorski County. And that fish market should be working soon. Therefore, I think it would be correct for the ministry to engage and secure funding in the 2008 State Budget so that the fishing wholesaler is finished and that normally our fishermen can sell their fish through this infrastructure project. Therefore, I ask that this amendment be voted upon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2292	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh, the 130th Amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2293	The government does not accept this amendment. We have provided 10 million kunas in a specific item, where we will in a certain way subsidize fisheries in part, to see the amounts related to the minimum fish yield per pond. And we think that these funds will be enough to solve the problem of birds in this part of fishing.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2294	Thank you, Mr. Bodakosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2295	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor. Sweetwater fishing, he needs recovery. For what? Because it also has its own tradition since the early 20th century, when Hungarian and Croatian Counts formed these ponds, until the end of that century when out of 16 thousand tonnes produced 65% were exported to Europe. Today, the Hungarians do so, today the Czechs who have completed and implemented reforms in freshwater fishing are doing so. We're sorry we didn't. Today, the production of 2.5 thousand tonnes of fish is insufficient, both for Croatia and not to mention exports. What's going on? There is a need for a thorough shift from the fish status to form, to know who the owners are, through financial consolidation, water contribution and the solution to the problem of fish. I don't think this $10 million is enough. It's not enough because we have 163 species of fish on the ponds, these birds, which are, of which, the most commonly known is a large crow, or cormorant that feeds the most on that fish. And that at the same time we're in a situation where the fish that don't have fish remain without birds. As a result, hunting tourism that was present is becoming increasingly peaceful. As a result, I think that this amount should be increased and the damage should be calmed down, i.e. to contribute to the consolidation of the ponds and their recovery. That's why I'm asking and asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2296	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 131st Madam Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2297	The government does not accept this amendment. I must point out that so far, two public procurements for the construction and modernisation of the fishing fleet have been launched, on the basis of which so far, 38 million kuna has been paid for this purpose from the budget in 2006, in 2007. Ten million kuna and 40 million kuna are forecasted in 2008. This Ministry is not responsible for the construction of fishing ports but is the competent Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure and for these reasons we do not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2298	Thank you. Mrs. Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2299	You have the restoration of the fishing fleet through two ministries, including through other ministries. Here is a simple new position for fishing port in the municipality of Kali, in the bay of Vela Lamjana, which is still being built on the detailed plan of the arrangement built by the municipality of Kali, was built in 253 metres. From 2000 to 2003, a waterfront was built at a length of 163 metres. And after that, not a foot, even though the promises were. Therefore, no funds have been granted since 2004. Of course, this fishing port, which is vital for the development of fisheries in the Republic of Croatia, would end with the proposed amount. Or do you think as much as you talk about fishermen and the development of fishing, our fishermen will simply be forced to go and watch Italians hunt our fish. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2300	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. IDS representative club 132 amendments. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2301	The government does not accept this amendment. It is also an amendment that does not apply to the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. It is about a irrigation plan in the Istrian county and concerns the second ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2302	... [[Speaker not enabled]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2303	Here, Mr. Minister, Mr. President of the Parliament, we would like to ask about the amendment to the vote. It's about a irrigation plan in Istria County. We're looking for 15 million kuna co-financing. Certainly the irrigation plan is related to the development of agriculture in the Istrian county, but certainly also in the area of others, means the Republic of Croatia. We've done a good part of the job, so we've developed a irrigation plan, his novelty. We are working on ideal solutions of individual sites such as Porestina, Robinština, part of Pula. We would need the funds to realize the plan itself. Please vote on the amendment itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2304	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 133th Amendment of Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2305	The government does not accept this amendment. We must stress that for the first time we have opened an item of rural infrastructure where all of those municipalities will be able to report, and so the municipalities of the lower Kukuruzari for the renovation of buildings, schools, social homes in that part, so that they will all be able to report and for this project, but there are no specific items in that part.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2306	Thank you. Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2307	I thank Mr. President, Mr. Minister, I will remind you, it is one of the larger settlements in the municipality of Donji Kukuruzari. This is an area of special state concern. It is a settlement in which Serb returnees, Croatian settlers, live in harmony. And they are very disabled by the fact that there are no spaces for their own social content and local self-government, which would certainly contribute to improving the quality of their lives and also to the process of integration of people who have moved to the region. It's about people who are very valuable, and they live on hard economic times. And it's about one proposal and a project that could help the entire municipality of Donji Kukuruzari, in fact, to affirm positive values, to develop social content, but also to remind the economy because it's about rural households that were formerly dairy producers, it's about hunting tourism that works in their immediate vicinity. It is another development project that could improve the municipality. In that sense, unless this amendment is even accepted, I am pleading and, please, if the item is already open for such a type of programme, that the Ministry should pay special attention to the project to restore the old school to the social home in the village of Gornja Velesnja, in the municipality of Donji Kukuruzari. Please vote on the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2308	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 134th Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2309	The government does not accept this amendment. There are several institutes and cells in Croatia that provide care for the development of olive industry. These are the Institute of Agriculture and Tourism in Poreč, the Institute of Mediterranean Cultures in Split, the Station for Southern Cultures, and we also have some offices for olive growing. In view of the existing institutes of the station, we believe that there are enough institutions at this time to take care of the development of olive industry in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2310	Thank you. Mr. Brkaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2311	Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister. We ask that this amendment be voted upon. It is known that the quality of Istrian olive oils is particularly extra virgin oils among the first in the world. Together with the Government of the Republic of Croatia is working to raise olive groves right in the Vodnjan area. We think that this kind of Olive Centre would be extremely valuable for the Istrian County, the town of Vodnjan and the Ministry itself, but also for further development of olive industry in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2312	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Representative Mirela Holly. 135.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2313	The government does not accept this amendment. We have provided for certain resources related to the development of organic agriculture, aware of its importance, and as regards these items, it relates only to that part and the difference is some 6 million kuna compared to the planned share of funds compared to last year, and in that part we will encourage with these funds, co-finance the costs of professional supervision and certification, and the payment of organic production is in the second paragraph of support of 2 billion and 700 million kuna for all support.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2314	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2315	Dear Minister, I am pleased that the Government of the Republic of Croatia recognized the importance of organic agriculture. But I think that organic agriculture as the only real sustainable agricultural practice still deserves even bigger, in principle, out of the budget. I would remind you that organic agriculture has many benefits for Croatian society and for those economic ones in terms of promoting exports, external and internal exports. Foreign according to foreign countries, and domestic exports for tourism purposes. But the same health benefits for society as a whole so that citizens of course can feed us quality and healthy. I remind you that the current share of organic agriculture in Croatia's total agriculture is about 5 prominences, and let's say in Austria, where this practice has quite survived as much as 12%, so I believe that more and more resources should be invested in this economic branch every year. So I ask that we still vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2316	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. IDS representative club 136. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2317	The government does not accept this amendment. There are currently 20 approved facilities in the Republic of Croatia for storage, processing and cutting, i.e. cooling and freezing of shot savages. We therefore believe that this is a sufficient number in any case, but we do not restrict entrepreneurs. Any entrepreneur can build such an object so that on the item where we have capital investments we will support it when he reports to the tender.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2318	Thank you. Mr. Brkaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2319	As far as building the facility itself is concerned, I would point out that the County of Istria, along with its Rural Development, Labour Agency, has already bought a facility that will be intended to export game or comply with European Union regulations. That's why I'm asking you to vote on the amendment. It is therefore support for the arrangement of the project itself, or the facility itself, which will be intended for the export of game animals of a million and 100,000 kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2320	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 137th Amendment of the same club IDS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2321	The government doesn't accept it for the same reasons as 134 because it's identical.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2322	We're withdrawing that amendment. The amendment has been withdrawn. The 138th Amendment is also a Club of IDS Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2324	The government does not accept this amendment. We put special funds on the subject of education. We will invest additional funds in the education of our farmers, but through regular ones, and so we know that by 31st High School of Agriculture and Professional Schools, 30th of the open schools that we will co-finance from these funds. Of course, by setting up a centre for only one part I wouldn't say enough education about it, but in any case, special support will be the education of our farmers.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2325	Thank you. Mr. Brkaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2326	On behalf of the IDS Club, since it is also about setting up a centre, but also a secondary agricultural school in Poreč asked us to vote on this amendment. There is, of course, a need in that part of the Republic of Croatia for the education of farmers, especially through the secondary agricultural school that would be located in Poreč, and I would like to ask that an amendment be voted on with a request that has been made here by 2 million kunas.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2327	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 139th Agent Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2328	The government does not accept this amendment. As I have already noted, for the first time we are opening a new item of social infrastructure in rural development where all municipalities will be able to report in that section to the published competition. And of course if you pass out in a public competition and the rehabilitation of the House of Culture in Petrovci will be realised in that part. But of course after the competition, we'll be able to look at the whole situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2329	Thank you. Mr. Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2330	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. I'll remind you it's only a settlement in the Municipality of Bogdanovci near Vukovar. So, in the shortest part of the war's destruction. The municipality of about 1000 inhabitants in which several national minority communities operate – Russia, Ukraine, Albania, Serbia, so it's not just about the home of culture, but it's about a social space where, apart from its activities in the cultural part, it's about all the other things that are usually done in these areas. There is complete documentation for the whole project. You can also see from the amount that the amount is rounded up in lip according to that documentation, so I ask you to put this amendment to the vote anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2331	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 140th Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2332	The government does not accept this amendment. I must say and point out that the ministry will take special care of politics and promote gender equality. I must stress that in 2000, the ministry is sponsoring and leading the event of the election of "The most scrupulous Croatian women" but that this year we are also in a series of items where we will be able to tell the competition of different associations in that part, and enable stronger than these 100,000 kunas to finance certain programmes that will contribute to the implementation of national policies to promote gender equality.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2333	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2334	Thank you. Mr. Minister, my amendment was aimed at reminding me that there was a document called a national policy to promote gender equality and that through this national policy, all ministries were given certain tasks. Regarding the Ministry of Agriculture that there is a marking of World Country Women's Day on October 15th, however, this is not enough and it is not just a problem, there will be no problem among other choosing to role models for rural women. What is particularly significant about this ministry, which is that you have an obligation in this year, and I do not see the means, however, to carry out an analysis of the existing research results, to finance new research to determine the position, consciousness, patterns of behaviour and the needs of rural women, and therefore to draw up an action plan based on the results of such scientific analyses. These 100,000 kunas are just a small fraction of the funds that would be needed for this, so please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2335	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I thank the minister. Please, Milivovo Mikulić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Regional Development of Forestry and Water Economy. Here you go. 141 amendments to Mr. Luke Denon's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2336	Thank you, Mr. President. The government doesn't accept the amendment. It is that through this item of the budget, it is proposed to finance a sports hall in Zamet and a swimming pool in Cantrida, so through this item, through which it is intended to finance, primarily co-finance activities in the recovery, upgrade and construction of municipal infrastructure facilities. By doing so, we mean primary water supply, draining and local roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2337	Thank you. Mr. Agent Denon, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2338	I accept that you refuse such an amendment where with very little money it has been tried to support the construction of a sports hall in Zamet in the city of Rijeka and support the construction of a pool in Cantrida also in the city of Rijeka. Of course, large cities can be debted as the city of Rijeka did so so that they could build and build their own infrastructure facilities, capital facilities for the city and for the Primorje-Gorski County. It is surprising that not all cities in Croatia are then equal, so I wonder why something called regional development does not take care of such regional development to be uniform throughout the Republic of Croatia. It is obvious that some cities that can also reach for this choice and do their own halls and their sports facilities do not do so because they have the support of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I think that this is not good and that a more even, more uniform regional development policy would also help those who have developed continue to develop and can help those who are less developed. I ask to vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2339	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. IDS representative club 142 amendments. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2340	The government doesn't accept the amendment. It's about revitalizing the old Mirna River. I would only point out, therefore, that the means to produce the project documentation because it does not exist, as well, are foreseen by the water management plan of Croatian waters for this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2341	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Marin Brkarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2342	I'd say on behalf of the IDS club, Mr. President, it's the Oprtalj municipality, which means most of the old river Mirna is located in. That this is an area of special state concern, that the interest of the particular part is to say by the Municipality of Oprtalj that this programme is realised with respect to what the Secretary of State said regarding the development of the project documentation, we are asking that votes on the amendment be voted on, means that the funds of 4 million kuna are approved, given that it is a regional development programme and is also part of the water economy segment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2343	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Also the IDS Representatives Club 143 amendments. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2344	So the amendment is not accepted. In accordance with the technical documentation available for the implementation of the works, the water management plan of Croatian waters for this year is foreseen.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2345	Thank you. Mr. Representative Miletic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2346	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would just like to point out that in 2007 there was also a demand for funds for rehabilitation and protection... Butoniga, I believe you know that right now Butoniga provides continuous and high-quality water supply to the entire Istrian county. For years, Butoniga has not been rehabilitated, there are quite large piles, and as water can only be drawn from the middle layer, and since it was a dry year in 2007, as it began to be also dry, we are afraid that we will question the water supply of the Istrian County. We therefore appeal to accept this amendment so that these initial funds of 5 million kuna would start to resuscitate the core of Butoniga and that the water supply of Istria especially during the summer season would be enabled during the tourist season. Please vote on the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2347	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 144 MPs Dino Kozlevac and Secret Vrbat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2348	The government does not accept this amendment. It's about upgrading Cerovlje Elementary School. I would just point out that in the C5 programme, therefore, in cooperation during 2004 a list of schools was created in collaboration with the Ministry of Science, and this programme is done. The program is scheduled to end next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2349	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Coslevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2350	The esteemed head of primary school in Cerovlje is located in Cerovlje, one of the municipalities in Istria, central Istria, which was formed from the former municipality of Pazin in the rural environment and one of the municipalities with the most modest budget in the Istrian County, which has done much with its own modest resources. However, any more significant and significant in this area and the small municipality of Cerovlja is impossible to do without additional financial resources. Since the school is one of the son quanton conditions of development in the area, because there has been a suspension of emigration, i.e. an increase in birth, and since the legal conditions applicable to primary schools should also be met, one injection is required, here is, in particular, 500 thousand kuna, to intervene in order to do so. We expected it to enter, given that in several positions, several ministries were able to read certain funding for primary schools. We felt that it was right here in regional development where and in this way trying to in some way affect the regional level of certain areas. I'm asking you to take a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2351	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 145th MPs also Dino Kozlevac and Tanja Vrbat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2352	So, with the same argument as for the previous amendment, the government does not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2353	Mr. Coslevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2354	Well, here's almost the same argument that was made for the Cerovlje municipality, also applies to the Municipality of Svetvinčenat. It is the same in the central area of Istria County. One municipality in the rural area without being built as strong infrastructures, without strong or stronger economic operators, which is also investing in investment and in entrepreneurship and creating conditions for the development of entrepreneurship and the economy so that it can monitor exactly these and such investments. In this area, there is also an increased birth rate, or a stop to human emigration. People recognized the possibility of living in the area. The sports hall is also one of the necessary assumptions in the context of what is happening today with youth and the population from children to school students. Thus, such a hall is a drying need in such environments as the St. Please vote on that need and on that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2355	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. One hundred and forty-six representatives of Luke Denon.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2356	Therefore, the Government does not accept this amendment with an argument which was also valid for Amendment 141. Therefore, under this item of the budget, activities are primarily co-financed in the recovery, upgrade and construction of basic municipal infrastructure facilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2357	Thank you. Mr. Representative Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2358	This, the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy under the code number, writes regional development projects. I don't know what you've assessed what a regional development project is, but if the Sports Recreation Centre "Platak" is not a regional development project, then I don't know what a regional development project is, since it is also for the municipality of Chavle and for the Primorje-Gorski County in the guidelines for this four-year period as a development project in the Primorje-Gorski County and the municipality of Chavle. I repeat, the Sports Recreation Centre "Pladak" is something that in tourism and sports skiing would contribute not only to the Primorje-Gorski County but also to the Republic of Croatia where we have another centre perhaps not like Sljeme, but it is obvious that a small municipality like Chavell cannot co-finance such a centre alone. Here we were looking for the first assumption that such a center could be built, which is to bring water to that Platak. And we're only asking for 2 million kunas and it's obvious there's no hearing for so little money in regional development projects. I ask to vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2359	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 147. IDS representative club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2360	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment, with an explanation that sub-projects of the rehabilitation of unclassified roads in certain units of local self-government in Istria County are therefore implemented within the framework of certain items or existing items of the budget in cooperation with these same units of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2361	Thank you. Mr. Representative Marin Brkarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2362	Mr. President! I would explain this amendment given that it is the support of local self-government units in the area of special state care, which is the municipality of Lanisce, the municipality of Grožnjan and the municipality of... So, a total of 4 million and 500 thousand kuna funds are being sought as support in these municipalities in the Programme for Modernisation of Unclassified Roads within this ministry. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think these means can be significantly improved and so to say to stimulate development in these parts of Istria County because roads are mostly part of the macadamic character. And I think this ministry could support this project, please vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2363	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 148th same club of IDS representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2364	In addition to the argument applicable to Amendment 141 and Amendment 146. The government does not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2365	Thank you. Marin Brkaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2366	Here, I will briefly ask you to take on this amendment vote. So it's about the Programme of Construction of Fireways in Istria County, meaning all over the territory. We think that this programme is not only for the Istrian County but also for the other counties particularly coastal which are fire-hazarded is extremely interesting. We are looking for an amount of 5 million kuna to be pooled together with the funds of the municipalities, cities or County of Istria for the purpose of realisation and fire roads, but I would also say the development of agriculture, since these fire roads as infrastructure roads are used for other purposes or other activities. Please vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2367	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. IDS agent club. Also 149.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2368	So with the same argument that was valid for the previous amendment and several before it, the government does not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2369	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS, Mr. Representative Marin Brkarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2370	Here, very briefly. Since the government does not accept this amendment, I would say, however, that it is the Brtonigla municipality, a project that is extremely valuable for the area, means the organisation of the wine museum and rural creation. So it's about the reconstruction of an old mill and the re-use into, the re-use of that space itself into a museum where all existing machines in the area would be preserved. Here, I'd like to ask you about this amendment vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2371	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 150th Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2372	Therefore, the active category of county roads is not in the jurisdiction and the work of this ministry, so that the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2373	Thank you. Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2374	Mr. Ministry representative! I would like to remind you that this is the Ministry of Regional Development and I would also remind you that out of 60 limes that finance the functioning of the county road administrations and Croatian roads, 50 lipa goes to Croatian roads and only 10 to county roads and that the ratio of the length of county and state roads is several times higher in favour of the county roads. It is the municipality of Donji Kukuruzari, a poorly developed, poor municipality that needs to have roads in good condition for regional development. It is a county road which unfortunately cannot be financed independently by the County Road Administration of Sisak-Moslavina County. In that sense, please vote on the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2375	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The same representative Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh 151.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2376	So, with the same argument that county roads and county road administrations are not in charge of this ministry's work. The government does not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2377	Thank you. Mr. Representative Goran Beus.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2378	Thank you. I remind you that this is a very important road connection between the Lonjsko polje and the Sisak and Popovače area, i.e. with important roads that actually condition regional development in this area. In one part, it is a section that is pebble and passes through the forest of Bezovica and it is simply amazing that it has never come to an end before, and in the other part it is a road on the very edge of Lonjsko polje which is necessary for the regional development of the region and also then for the smooth economic development but also for the development of tourism and preservation of the natural whole of Lonjsko polje. Please vote on the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2379	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 152. Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2380	Since several of the following amendments now apply to the same matter, let me be a little wider. So, during the duration of 2005 The Government of the Republic of Croatia has defined the programme of integrated development of the local community and notified all units of local self-government except the city of Zagreb and the island that certain sub-projects are therefore nominated, three per unit of local self-government to simply invest in all units of local self-government according to the criteria and priorities of local self-government units. At that moment, all nineteen were informed, I apologized to sixteen units of local self-government in Pula and Istria and none of them delivered any project or nominated it in the first round. In the second round, seven units of local self-government did so and seven units of local self-government are in the programme of integrated development of the local community. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment, and as far as the city of Pula is concerned, preparations are under way for the construction or rehabilitation of the November hotel and restaurant in the city of Pula.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2381	Thank you. Mr. Representative Boris Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2382	I'm sure the traffic is bothering all the cities, but believe me, as far as the city of Pula or the southern part of Istria is concerned, if we are to exempt from... The Istrian Ipsilon is on the road there, let's be realistic, yet they don't build and we all know they all stand out in the common register. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we insist on accepting this project because it's exactly the state road, the merger means... With the Great Supreme, it's a state road. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think it's been a year since it's been wasted only on the outcome of the necessary projects or permits. A local permit is now under way and what we can be sure is that in 2008 the tourist season will continue for rainy days an impossible mission in the city of Pula. I therefore insist that this amendment be voted upon. And I also believe that at least in 2009 this project will end in order for the city of Pula to finally get this roundabout on the state road. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2383	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. IDS representative club 153. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2384	Therefore, with the same argument as the previous amendment, the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2385	Thank you. Mr. Representative Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2386	So the construction of the second roundabout in Pula is just before I said it also includes the problem of traffic and traffic jams. This is a county road, however, we know that the county road administrations are very much in charge and that they do not have the means to continue, to build new roads. Therefore, I think that the country should be more actively involved and I think that it should build roads evenly in the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia because other than the "Istria Ipsilon" as I mentioned earlier, the roads are not being built. So please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2387	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. ... 154th Amendment of the IDS Club. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2388	Therefore, with the same argument as for the previous two amendments, the Government does not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2389	Mr. Representative Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2390	With the same argument as before, I would like to ask that this amendment be voted on after all. I say once again that the reconstruction of Marulic Street is in the city of Pula and I think the state should be more actively involved in co-financing such projects. So I ask to vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2391	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 155th of the same club IDS.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2392	Therefore, the Government does not accept this amendment on the grounds that the sub-project in question has not been nominated by the local self-government unit.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2393	Thank you. Mr. Representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2394	In that case, we're giving up the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2395	This amendment has been withdrawn. Thank you very much. Let's move on. 156. IDS representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2396	Therefore, this amendment also does not accept the same argument that the sub-project was not nominated by the local self-government unit.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2397	Mr. Brkaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2398	Mr. President, I would ask that this amendment be voted upon. It's the Kanfanar-Zminj road, meaning the central part of Istria. The amount is 8 million kuna per indicative coster. This is connecting the meaning of Kanfanar municipality to the "Istrian Ipsilon" and with the centre means Zminj in that part of Istria, meaning on both state and county roads. Please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2399	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 157th of the same club IDS.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2400	Therefore, neither this sub-project was nominated by the local self-government unit nor the state roads were in charge of the work of this ministry. The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2401	Thank you. Mr. Brkaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2402	Here, I'd like to ask you to vote on this amendment as well. All these amendments, which are given, are in favour of the state of the state of the state, county and local roads in Istria County. The fact is that for years no funds have been invested, and for this very reason, the amendments that we have submitted here on the one hand and the requirements of the municipalities themselves, cities, given the extremely poor state of transport infrastructure. I ask that the amendment be voted on, meaning the construction of a road in the direction of Karioba amounting to 25 million kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2403	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. IDS representative club 158 amendments. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2404	Therefore, this sub-project is also not nominated for the realisation of foreign units of local self-government and the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2405	A mustache, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2406	Here, Mr. President, I would point out that this case is about a state road connecting the eastern coast of Istria and the Učka tunnel itself. The fact is that this proposal should normally be incorporated into the Croatian Roads programme, but it is obvious that this particular section, which is indicated here from Krshan to Učka tunnel itself, has already been reconstructed for 18 years in favour of the earlier the tendency to invest in transport infrastructure in Istria, I would say, on a drop, if one 20km share, reconstruction, not construction, but reconstruction we've been building for 18 years, then we know how to invest in the transport infrastructure of the Istrian County, in this case it's a state road. I'm asking you to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2407	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 159th Amendment of the same IDS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2408	Therefore, with the same argument that the sub-project is not nominated by the units of local self-government amendments is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2409	Thank you. Mr. Brkaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2410	Here, Mr. President, I suggest that this amendment to the vote is an important hub on the state road connecting Labin with Koromač and other parts of the city of Labin. Please vote since it is a 3.5 million kuna investment, and the project documentation has been obtained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2411	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. IDS Representatives' Club 160th Amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2412	With the same argument, the Government doesn't accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2413	Mr. Brkaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2414	I would also briefly, Mr. President, simply point out that the construction of the Labin bypass, the construction of the project documentation and the means necessary for the extradition, means once again it is about connecting the state road with the tourist part of Rabca, please allow this amendment to be accepted. I'm asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2415	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. The amendment was not accepted, did not receive the required majority. 161. IDS agent club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2416	So, with the same argument as for several previous Government amendments, the amendment does not accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2417	Mr. Representative Marin Brkarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2418	Here I am again, Mr. President, asking that this proposal be accepted, given that it is a touristic part of Istria, building a bypass. For which there is already documentation and certainly an indication, that is, the willingness to co-finance the project, the amount needed is 15 million kuna. I'd like to ask about the amendment to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2419	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 162. Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2420	With the same argument as I said in several previous amendments, this amendment is not accepted by the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2421	Thank you, Mr. Representative... Here you go. [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2422	Thank you very much, Mr. President, here I would just like to point out that this is a state road, a merger between Pula and Vodnjan. I would especially like to highlight this because the city of Pula's economy is largely related to that area, so that road also serves for freight traffic, is primarily meant for the economic zone in Vodnjan and also in Galizana. We all know that big sections just for our shipyard come from that direction. The stake was really in bad shape and there were human casualties. And I think that this amendment should really be accepted, so I demand that it be voted on because the amount is 2 million kuna, I think that the ministry might accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2423	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 163th same club of IDS representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2424	Therefore, the sub-project in question has not been nominated by the units of local self-government so that the Government does not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2425	Mr. Representative Brkaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2426	Here, Mr. President, I'm going to ask you to vote on this amendment, it's about building a intersection in St. Lovreću, a small municipality with a small budget income and certainly with a amount of 2 million kuna, this project and co-financing of the municipality itself, this project could be realised. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2427	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. IDS Representatives' Club 164th Amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2428	The subject sub-project was also not nominated by local self-government units, the government is not accepting this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2429	Mr. Representative Brkaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2430	Here, Mr. President, it's the Savudrija Road... which today is in an exceptional position to say so to the bad situation just as it concerns the condition of the stake. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also a road connecting to say the best part of the tourist area. In this area they also wanted a red top, so hotels... In this direction, we are asking for co-financing to say this project to rebuild and reconstruct the stake with 9 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2431	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. IDS MPs' club 165 amendments, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2432	With the same argument as for several previous amendments, this amendment is not accepted by the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2433	Thank you. Mr. Representative Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2434	So it's an amendment that requires co-financing for the construction of a circular current in Vodnjan. The town of Vodnjan. I think this is the last amendment to our club from this set of amendments regarding roads. And I think it's also a very clear message coming from Istria County that we're not satisfied with the treatment and construction of roads in our area. I therefore ask that this amendment be voted on as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2435	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. IDS Representatives' Club and 166 amendments. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2436	So the government does not accept this amendment. The funds for the construction of capital projects are planned for the water management plan, Croatian Waters in 2008. In accordance with the project documentation prepared, a sub-project of disposal at the level of municipalities and cities will be considered in the next period of implementation of the programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2437	Thank you. Mr. Brkaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2438	Here, Mr. President, as far as this amendment is concerned, the Istrian County has formed an Istrian water protection system. It is a deforestation company, i.e. by solving water protection in the Istrian county, water source protection, that is, the disposal and construction of sewage systems. We agree with the argument that this programme is mostly to be found in the Croatian Waters system, but this part of 2 million HRK 350 thousand we have asked for support in the development of project documentation. I suggest that the amendment to the vote, given that it is the initial means for the design documentation to be drawn up so as to be able to approach the realisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2439	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh 167.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2440	The government does not accept this amendment with the reason that the project will be financed by the Croatian Water Units of Local Self-Government, depending on the degree of preparation of investment and technical documentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2441	Thank you. Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2442	Thank you. It should be pointed out that it is one of the biggest central Croatia infrastructure problems to which nearly a hundred thousand inhabitants are referred. The construction of the new water station Črnkovec, i.e. Kosnica and the construction of the pipeline through the Homeland Bridge via Sava, finally create the conditions for the eastern part of Zagreb County to be built on several very important water supply infrastructure facilities, finally and in the long term, to resolve the issue of water supply. Since Croatia's waters do not have enough resources in their budget for such large procedures as this so-called The Zagreb County East, we pray that the Government, and it is three amendments one behind the other, so it is three objects, with the same explanation this time intervenes and helps the citizens from Sesveto to Ivanić City can finally use drinking water and in this sense I am informing if it is not already known to the ministry, that these three facilities are completed complete planning documentation, so they can be built as soon as the funds are found. Therefore, I ask you not to reject these amendments or, in the course of the year, if you do so now, to rebalance the budget of the Republic of Croatia for the solution to this problem. Please vote on the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2443	Thank you very much. Does that mean that this 167, 168 and 169 vote together? ... Thank you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Who's in favor of these three amendments? Thank you. They didn't get the necessary majority. 170 amendments to the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2444	The government does not accept this amendment with reasons similar to several previous amendments, so the project will be financed by the Croatian Waters and Local Self-Government Units, and yet depending on the degree of technical investment documentation and permits.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2445	Thank you. Mr. Representative Marin Brkarić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2446	Here, Mr. President, I would only briefly say in this amendment that it is about the arrangement of the spring and the local water line of Brest, a water line that has its own historical dimension, since it began with water supply in 1876. It is located in the area of the municipality of Lavišće, a municipality of special state care and an amount of 700 thousand kuna would support the realisation of this very arrangement of the spring and the local water pipeline itself, I say a water line from 1876. Please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2447	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 171 IDS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2448	The government does not accept this amendment with the same argument as for the previous two.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2449	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Brkaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2450	Here we must point out, Mr. President, that it is the construction of a water line in the district of Rush, a water line from St. Marine to Ravni and Dranja. It's an area of Raša municipality that's unsettled. We ask the amount of 6 million kuna to start with the realization of this project with the funds of the municipality of Rasa, the local water pipeline and the Istrian County. It is a coastal area, we can tell the tourist section where they are today and tourists and we must say that it is part of the Republic of Croatia without a built water supply system. Please accept this amendment and ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2451	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 172 IDS reps clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2452	With the same explanation as for the previous few amendments, this amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2453	Mr. Representative Brkaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2454	Here I would like to ask a vote on this amendment. So it's about resuscitating the origins of the Vizinada municipality with modest budget revenues and the amount of EUR 200 thousand I think it might be in the ministry itself to support this project. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2455	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. IDS representative club 173 amendments. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2456	With the same argument as for the previous few amendments, the government does not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2457	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Brkaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2458	Here's Mr. President. It's about the construction of water storage in the area of Krsan municipality itself, it's in Klomin. Communities that invest more than 20 million kunas in their water supply. This calls for co-financing of one million kuna, with funds being channelled both by the Istrian County and the municipality itself. This project solves the guiding of the Plomin and Kršan settlements themselves, and we ask that this project, i.e. the amendment of the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2459	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Representative Željko Vincelj 174 amendments. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2460	So between Croatia's Zagorje, between the Krapina-Zagorska County and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, a conclusion was reached and a multi-year water co-financing agreement was signed. We believe that this amendment is therefore unnecessary because it is already in the budget. So the government does not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2461	Thank you. Mr. Representative Vincelj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2462	With this amendment, we are no longer asking for any less than to respect this signed multiannual co-financing agreement for the regional water supply system of Krapina-Zagorje County in 2006 which should ultimately implement works worth around 226 million kuna in 2010. The signatories are two ministries, which are the Ministry of the Sea, then agriculture, the Regional Development Fund, Croatia's water and Croatian highways. Unfortunately, from the budget items of all these ministries and institutions, we cannot be convinced that this year what is planned with this multiannual programme, which is 46 million kuna, will be realized. In 2006 and 2007, less than planned was realized, so we ask that the programme be fully respected otherwise it will not be taken down to five years but over seven and eight years. Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2463	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 175th Amendment of Representatives, Mr. Luke Denon.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2464	Therefore, the Government does not accept this amendment on the grounds that a work programme is not ready or yet a building permit has not been issued that would require this amount of money.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2465	Thank you. Mr. Denona. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2466	I have already forgotten how many years Skadar was built on Bojana, but I believe that this regional water line Gorski Kotar, if at such a pace and with such arguments that something is not ready to continue to lead, then we will also be able to call it the regional water line not Gorski Kotar but the Skadra on Bojana. As in previous years, the Primorje-Gorski County and stressing Croatian waters also help end the regional water line of Gorski Kotar, we have reached the final third phase where it is necessary to build a battery in... so that the entire water supply system of Gorski Kotar can be operational. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In Gorski Kotar, where residents lie on water that is mild in this Croatia, but drink unhealthy water because, not because someone will not, but you say there is no money. We have now read that you have concluded an agreement for the Regional Waterway Croatian Zagorje amounting to 12 million kuna, and here is a ridiculous figure of one million kuna and 700 thousand kuna, which stands for the repayment of the loan of the powerless and disabled commune in Delnice whose shoulders have something called the Regional Development of the Gorski Kotar Waterway. Well, I don't think your claim that the documents are ready is correct. The documents are ready, the stream cross project exists. Location permits have been made. Here, I ask that you then find the funds and that this mountain cotter, the regional water line is finally finished. I ask to vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2467	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 176, Mr. Zlatko Koračević's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2468	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment with the argument that the programme will be financed by the resources of Croatian Waters and Local Self-Government Units, depending on the degree of completion of the technical documentation and the resulting building permits.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2469	Mr. Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2470	Thank you very much. Well, I've been listening to this story and this argument for the third time, so third year in a row. This project, which is about the construction of a master's water line, a water supplying drinking water for cca. 50,000 citizens of the Varazdin County, some of the citizens now supplying via local water lines. For the whole system there is also project documentation and building permit. And I don't think I should mention specifically what that water line means in terms of exploiting the economic potential, the potential that the Varazdin County has proven in many parts so far. Therefore, I request a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2471	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The same representative, Mr. Zlatko Koračević, 177th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2472	With the same argument, the Government does not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2473	Thank you. Mr. Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2474	And when it comes to this amendment for the second time in a row, I'm listening to the same argument. I repeat again for the second time in this House that it is a border area, a region directly along the state border with the Republic of Slovenia, an area in which it lives in extremely difficult conditions, and practically at the entrance to the Republic of Croatia, along the border crossing Macelj lives cca. 130 households. And please vote on that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2475	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 178th Amendment of Representative Branko Crlenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2476	Therefore, the Government does not accept this amendment on the grounds that, in accordance with the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the signed Water Co-financing Agreement, therefore, with the Split-Dalmatia County, this will be carried out in accordance with the technical documentation and licences provided for in the agreement. So he's already inside.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2477	Thank you. Mrs. Brankica Crlenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2478	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. Construction of a master pipeline that would stretch through Zadar and Sibenik-Knin and Split-Dalmatia County would finally solve the problem of water supplying Boraja and surrounding villages in Sibenik County. Given the importance of this project, I ask that the amendment be put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2479	... Thank you. [[Specially enabled.]] He didn't get the necessary majority. 179th Amendment of Representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2480	Therefore, the Government does not accept this amendment with the reason that the funds are already secured in the plan of managing the waters of Croatian waters for this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2481	Thank you. Mr Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2482	Well, I didn't get it very well, we don't give it because we don't give it. I think that's how I got the answer. It is that the town of Sisak is indeed in great difficulty when it comes to environmental and environmental problems. Unfortunately, the whole parts of the city still have no sewerage, and this is difficult to finance with its own urban resources. Since it is a part of the city where a business area that needs to solve huge social problems is envisaged, I appeal to the government to help, a symbolic amount has been requested here that will by no means solve the problem, but that it is at least notable as the need that the city has and cannot be financed by itself. I would still beg to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2483	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 180th Representatives Goran Beus Richembergh and Tonino Picula.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2484	Therefore, the Government does not accept this amendment with reasons as well as for several previous amendments, that the project will be financed by the resources of Croatian Waters and local self-government units in accordance with technical documentation and according to the resulting building permits.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2485	Well, Mr. Tonino Picula. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2486	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I was hoping for a better understanding of the government when we proposed this amendment in the Parliament to accept it anyway, because it is a truly unique facility in the Republic of Croatia. Namely, it's a residential building very conditional, because it was built in '74. There are 64 apartments in it, and she's got a double function right now. It is also a water container first because at the top of the building there is a container of 1000 metres of cubic water. However, what really is its functioning has now drawn to the limit is the fact that the entire building is passing through and the chimney of the heat and thus is in a very direct way jeopardizing the very reinforced concrete structure of the entire building, and I'm not talking about the poles that are created by the combustion of sulphur. Because HEP uses unfortunately heavy fuel, oil to heat that part of Great Gorica. It is simply a facility that requires nearly four million kunas, and these funds exceed the power, the fiscal strength of local self-government. In our contacts with HEP representatives, we have not gotten the impression that they want, can and will access the recovery of this facility. The pressure of the tenants is high, and it seems to me that perhaps the state as the owner of the public company HEP, or special heat, might, by accepting this amendment, be able to send a clear message that it is behind the legitimate requirements of the tenants. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2487	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 181st legislators Goran Beus Richembergh and Tonino Picula as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2488	Therefore, the Government does not accept this amendment with the reason that the continuation of the project documentation is already envisaged by the plan, i.e. the water management plan for the Croatian waters for 2008.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2489	Thank you. Mr. Agent Tonino Picula.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2490	Thank you for the interpretation. Still, a few sentences would have to be said in this place. I will pronounce the names of these settlements that are here because they are more than 6000 citizens of Lower Turopolje living in Marclin, Okujam, Buševac, Ogulinac, Rakitovac, Turopol, Houses, Gornji and Donji Podotočje, Vukovina, Stari and Novi Čič, Lazini Čička and Čička Poljana. This money-seeking system is formed into seven technical and economic units with associated biological purifiers. Of course, we understand it's an investment that weighs more than 150 million kuna. However, the importance of this infrastructure facility outweighs the importance for the town of Velika Gorica, but also above all a new system that would regulate the disposal. It would save the value of groundwaters that are of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia as well. I note that the entire system is in technical and technological terms in line with Croatian waters and is consistent with the decision on the disposal of waste water that regulates among other things and this whole that we propose to finance the initial resources of the state budget. I'd like a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2491	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 182. Representatives Sonja Šimunović and Igor Dragovan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2492	The Government does not accept this amendment, on the grounds that the construction of sewerage in Slavonski Brod is envisaged under a project co-financed by the pre-accession IPA fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2493	Thank you. Mr. Representative Igor Dragovan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2494	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. Slavonski Brod is the sixth city in the Republic of Croatia, and five hundred units of local self-government according to the construction of the sewer network. The fact is that this refusal of your amendment also shows the government's attitude towards Slavonia and Baranja and please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2495	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 183rd representative of Mr. Zlatko Koracevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2496	The government does not accept this amendment with the same explanation as for the previous few amendments. This is that the project will be financed by the Croatian Water Units of Local Self-Government, while obtaining conditions related to technical documentation and building permits.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2497	Thank you. Mr. Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2498	Mr. Secretary of State, here's your explanation for two things. The first is that, whether it's an accident or not, I don't know, but the government does not continuously support the municipal projects of the Varazdin County. In particular, when it comes to this amendment, a system of building a transport pipeline system, a system that the government or state better destroyed when building the highway Zagreb – Varazdin and the Government took over their commitment, obviously that your associates did not inform you well or quality information, the government took the obligation, by agreement signed in 2004 to correct the error. My attempt at this amendment is only to finally take over and implement that commitment she signed in 2004. I'm asking the vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2499	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević also for the 184th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2500	Therefore, the Government does not accept this amendment with the argument that the continuation of the project documentation is foreseen by the plan of managing the waters of Croatian waters for this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2501	Thank you. Mr. Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2502	Thank you very much. Well, there's no need to repeat yourself, but I have a need to point out here. In the last year, the city of Ivanec was paid through VAT million and EUR 200000, and from the state to support... Got only 2,000 kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Turns out the city is funding a state in municipal projects. Please vote on the amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2503	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 185th Amendment of Representatives Nenad Stazic, Milanka Opačić, Josip Lek and Bruno Kurelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2504	The Government does not accept this amendment with the same argument as for the previous amendment. Therefore, it is that the continuation of the design project documentation is foreseen by the water management plan of Croatian waters for this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2505	Thank you. Mr. Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2506	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister. I was convinced the government would accept this amendment. Here's a reason. Both of them are situated along the banks of the river Kupa and the river Kupa is recognised even in the European Union as the natural value to be protected. So the settlements themselves recognized the value of the Cup and their own contribution to try to protect the values of the river Kupa. The government didn't recognize that. It's a sad fact. The second thing I thought was why I thought. This was an excellent opportunity for the government to confirm or prove that it is not sectarian and that it can help programmes and in those municipalities where the government does not behave in HDZ. It's a truly unique opportunity. Therefore, the interest is clear, lasting and recognised in the European Union and the locals want it. Only the government didn't recognize it. I'm asking you to vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2507	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 186. IDS representative club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2508	The government does not accept this amendment with the reason that the funds are therefore intended to co-finance the fairs are not within the competence of this ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2509	Thank you. Mr. Brkaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2510	Here, Mr. President, as far as this amendment is concerned, we have asked for the co-financing of fair activities in the Istrian County, fairs that have an international character. This is a Crofish fair, meaning a fishing fair and fishing equipment, it is about fairs that are related to agriculture such as Vini Istria, an olive oil fair, meaning all fair activities with an international character organised by the Istrian County or associations with the expectation that the Ministry of Regional Development will support such activities, especially those of international character or international importance and are interesting for both the Istrian County and the Republic of Croatia. We're looking for a vote on the amendment. The funds requested are 600,000 kunas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2511	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I'm Mrs. Mirela Holly's 187th representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2512	The government does not accept this amendment because it is, in particular, a proposal for an amendment does not have a project because it is a principle of protection of the sea, water and sea from pollution without a concrete project. I'd just like to point out that the funds are foreseen by the budget, so they're all supported by the programmes.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2513	Mrs. Representative Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2514	Dear Secretary of State, the purpose of this amendment was to raise the general protection of water and sea protection. Given the need to keep in mind that water is a strategic resource, that it is already very important and that the importance of clean water will be even greater in the future. When we talk about the land part, we know that most municipalities, cities have no wastewater treatment at all, and as far as sea pollution itself is concerned, the same is a tragic situation, so I think that there is a need to significantly increase the budget for these projects. I therefore request a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2515	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol 188.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2516	The implementation of part of the national gender equality policy is covered by the budget positions of our ministry so that the Government does not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2517	Thank you. Mrs. Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2518	Mr. Secretary of State, I have to say I don't know which items are covered by national policy implementation. The initiative for this amendment was one of the reasons why I have been instructed before through other ministries, so the government thus shows that through all ministries it is taking care of the implementation of national gender equality policy. And since this is the new ministry, it's actually somehow these 100,000 kunas seemed to me to be a good orientation and a future coordinator or gender equality coordinator within your ministry as perhaps some initial means for some project. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2519	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I would like to thank the Secretary of State and, please, the Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure of Mr. Bozidar Kalmet. Here you go. 189th Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2520	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This amendment is not accepted by the Government for the reason that rail infrastructure, maintenance and construction are being resolved by the basis of the National Programme of Railway Infrastructure whose proposal has been discussed here in the Assembly and the National Programme proposal plans for the preparation and construction of tunnels to connect the rail infrastructure networks between Istria and the rest of the networks in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2521	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2522	Your Honor, Mr. Minister, the point is next. If you accept this programme of building railway infrastructure in 2008-2011, you must also clearly provide adequate funds, so that everything does not remain at some programming, declarative level rather than in order to access and realise. We all agree that this tunnel needs Istria, it needs Croatia. Istria needs Istria to integrate Istrian railways in Croatia, Croatia needs to integrate the Croatian railway infrastructure into Europe. This in 2011, 2012 after we enter the European Union will not be able to block Slovenia. To strengthen Rijeka's port after Kopar takes over Trieste, to withdraw the final part of the burden from Spain, southern France, northern Italy that will go through Copra, Učka tunnel to Zagreb, making Zagreb a railway regional centre clear towards Eastern Europe. Finally, to help part of the Istrian economy, which is the most vital export economy in the Republic of Croatia. It is enough to mention that we are exporting about a billion and $200 million a year, Rijeka or Primorje-Gorski County only $600 million, your Zadar only $200 million. We're all aware of that. As one Dalmatina did not bring much to the spiritual father of that road to Mr. Racan, so the Ucka railway tunnel may not bring much to you. However, "dalmatina" has brought much to Dalmatia, it has brought much to Croatia, and the Učka tunnel would certainly or Cicaria, as some already call it, brought it to Istria but far more to Croatia. And I ask so many MPs, the more the government has made one declarative promise to include it in the 2008-2011 rail infrastructure construction programme to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2523	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 190th Amendment of Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2524	This amendment does not need to be accepted because it is the recovery of the Botov car wash. Namely, this is planned at position K761009 Modernisation and construction of railway infrastructure, and I must say that for the rehabilitation of that laundry plant in Botovo is already under way and the implementation documentation is under way.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2525	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2526	Well, first of all, the implementation documentation was made two years ago, an environmental impact study and an environmental impact review were carried out, and two years ago nothing was done on that recovery. For the past three years, you have the same explanation when you reject me this amendment and say it is foreseen by the Croatian Railways budget. For four years there is really nothing going on there, and it is obvious that nothing is really going to be done there this year, because it is about significant funds, so it is somewhere out of a few million euros that should be invested in the recovery of that which is not something that can be drowned in some general item. These items are not even available in the national programme for modernisation of infrastructure, railway infrastructure at the site of environmental protection because it really is one significant item, so not several million kunas but several million euros. I, like the last three times, have asked to vote on it, and I hope that by the end of the year we'll meet on Botov and see how much of it has been taken care of.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2527	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Mr. Representative Zeljko Vincelj 191 amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2528	The technical-functional solution of this railway to which the representative here requests an amendment is Krapina-Zabok is envisaged in the period from 2008 to 2012 and is based on the funds foreseen for investment maintenance in the national railway infrastructure programme. The 10A section of this railway will be reconstructed, built and connected by Maribor-Krapina-Zabok and Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2529	Thank you. Mr. Vincelj, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2530	This project of reconstruction of the Zabok-Krapina railway is only one of several related to Krapina-Zagorje County which is also part of the programme and the 99th strategy of the transport development of Croatia said that it will work from 2006 to 2010 as a complement to the construction of the new connection line Zagreb-Zabok-Krapina-Maribor. We are following this state commitment and we have included this railway in our spatial plan, but here the national programme is now going into the realization of only the electrification of the railway from Zapršić to Zabok, but this extension of Zabok-Krapin is also a necessary prerequisite for the implementation of the project of the 10A pan-European corridor, and the basis is of course that in the next national programme there since 2013 and 2017, the Zabok-Krapin railway is also electrified and it is finally starting to build the link line Krapina-Maribor. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2531	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 192 amendments to Mr Davorko Vidovic's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2532	This amendment is not accepted for the reason that the talks between the HZ infrastructure and the town of Sisak are under way, and the project documentation to the level of the main project has been built on the burden of HZ infrastructure funds and are now being discussed as to how much anyone will be participating for the construction of this papararel which belongs to Caprag Railway Station with the village of Caprag, which has been removed by order of inspection due to the duration and danger of traffic and pedestrians. So this is going to happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2533	Thank you. Mr. Representative Vidovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2534	I'd be very happy with the answer. Mr. Minister, what you're talking about was done in 2005 is now in 2008. Knowing that it won't pass the amendment on purpose I said to withdraw funds from the Vishnik sports hall in Zadar to understand as you believe that the Zadars have the right recreation that I think. Let all of us together have to take care of people, old women and children who cross 8 tracks a day to jump cars. Made a city or state, it just can't wait any longer, you have no idea how urgent this is. This is negligible money compared to the lives that are at risk every day. Please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2535	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Ladies and gentlemen of the House will now interrupt the session and continue at exactly 14 o'clock and 30 minutes, so at 2 and 30 with... Continuing at 14 hours and 30 minutes, 193rd Amendment. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2536	He's got plenty of MPs and MPs. Amendment to 193 by Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2537	Unfortunately, this amendment cannot be accepted because the problem of railway and road crossings is being addressed in the National Programme of Railway Infrastructure and is there to address these problems. You can't hear it. I say that Amendment 193 is not accepted unfortunately, because the issue in which Mr. MP writes, which is the problem of railway and road crossings, is being addressed and processed as part of the National Railway Infrastructure Programme, which provides for 315 million kunas to address these problems over the next five years.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2538	Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2539	Well, I might be able to accept your explanation, but thousands of Krisevci and Krisevci women who lose hours every day at the crossing where they lower the ramp in crossing the state line with a state road can't quite do it. This was promised four years ago, this was promised to them three years ago, two years ago, this was promised to them in an election campaign. And now instead of putting it into the program because, finally, a building permit has been obtained and you are now explaining to me that it will be done in the national programme where it is intended to be the second track, because it will probably be done with the second track, starting to build in 2011. I think that no one in the Križevci, no one in this direction who comes from Žabna towards the Križevci, can simply accept it, as it is not possible to accept it either because we hope that the road will still be built, the fast road Gradec-Vojakovaki Kloštar in the term of the current government, and then it will be almost impossible to enter the Cross if this is not resolved. Therefore, I insist on voting on this amendment, because if this is not resolved, there will be an even bigger absolute traffic collapse in the town of Križevci at the entrance and exit, and I am already repeating to the thousand Križovčana at that railway crossing because the ramp is descending more than 100 times a day, not only waiting, they are losing hours, but also huge pollution of the human environment, and it took four years to reach the building permit.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2540	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 194th Representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2541	This amendment can also not be accepted because it is similar, so it is practically the same problem as that of the previous amendment, so the argument is the same. The funds for these purposes were provided in a five-year plan to maintain the railway infrastructure this Parliament discussed earlier, I think last week.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2542	Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2543	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I understand your answer, and I expected that answer. This amendment of mine is in some way a call for need and an urgent need to solve this problem. The railway crossing, the resolution of the railway crossing, was in the previous programme, and the railway crossing was planned three years ago, and two years ago and last year, project documentation was made, a building permit was issued, however, the Croatian railways do not solve the problem. I have to point out in particular, it is about the combined road of the northwestern part of the Varazdin County with the Varazdin-Zagreb highway, which now has three railway crossings, with this solution there is one railway crossing, and County is a varazdin route of moving the road, and in order to create an opportunity for a railway crossing already made in the stage of implementation of that road along the new route. It's my request. I know this amendment won't pass, and you said it yourself. It is my request that you act with your authority of the Croatian Railways, that Croatian railways do what they promised three years ago, and two years ago, and last year, and I believe that this year there is at least a small hope of solving the problem. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2544	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 195th representative of Luke Denon.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2545	Well, this amendment doesn't need to be accepted here because the government was going with one of its amendments that will be here at the vote when it comes to voting on the National Railway Infrastructure Programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2546	A representative of Luke Denon.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2547	I am extremely pleased if this modest contribution to this amendment has offered the Government of the Republic of Croatia to put in a serious way a programme of building railway infrastructure, not only in the Government programme, and here is the beginning of building a railway tunnel through Učka, not to explain why because it is already quite explained in this House. And I would pray that in this programme of building railway infrastructure it will not be without money, but that these humble beginnings of building with 2 million kunas will be accompanied by money. Why do I say that? Because at the end of the budget, we'll be able to track that at least some of the bases about building Ucka's tunnel have been made, because we know that it won't be over for long, long years, but here and that's a good start. I would like to thank you if this amendment of mine helped find what is in the government's programme and in the rail infrastructure building program. And let it be money, because if there's no money, then there's no music. Thank you very much. I'm not asking you to vote on the amendment then.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2548	Thank you. Amendment withdrawn 195. 196th Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2549	This amendment can also not be accepted, given that there is a position in the state budget called reconstruction of buildings, sub-grading, upgrade of public transport ports in the area of the county in the planned 60 million kuna for 2008, it is unnecessary to open a new position proposed by the respected Mr. Representative, which is the project of the arrangement of the Milna coastal belt, phase two.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2550	Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2551	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, I didn't hear you very well in the end. Did you say there were funds or something?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2552	Yes, the funds are provided.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2553	Predicted for this? And how many are they, because this is related to the project of the drain system and the disposition of sewers in the village of Milna na Brač. That project is ongoing. He entered the CERP4 project and is expected to do so during 2008. It's about that part on the waterfront, so it's about the part of the maritime goods on the promenade that's supposed to extend by 3 meters. If the funds are provided for this, then I thank you and there is no need to vote on it, because Milna herself has provided a million kunas of funds. I'll take your word for it. And by believing what you said, then I'm not asking for a vote if you're going to give those funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2554	Thank you very much. Amendment 196 withdrawn. 197. IDS agent club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2555	Well, the explanation is similar here. Namely, there is no need to create a new special position for each special county, because we have a county where the funds are summed up in the 2008 budget. So there's no need here where 5 million kunas are sought for modernisation and revitalization... of importance to the Istrian County. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2556	Representative Boris Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2557	I accept the argument and give up the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2558	Thank you. 197th Amendment withdrawn. 198. IDS representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2559	We also do not accept this amendment as well as the previous amendment, with Pula being classified as a port of county importance in accordance with the Law on seaports and maritime goods. And funding should primarily come from the county budget, or from the state budget, could only be co-financed by a certain part of the funds, but not by the total investment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2560	Representative Boris Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2561	Thank you very much. Well, it's about asking for co-financing. The minister recently had a chance to see the situation around the Pulmonary. This programme includes the Rabac port harbor. So there's a number of harbors in the Istrian county where we've requested just co-financing. In particular, if we're talking about a pulsating harbor, the projected investment is not somewhere more than 100 million kuna. Of course, the county itself, or the city itself, cannot finance it. I would still ask that this amendment be voted upon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2562	Thank you. Amendment withdrawn. 198, 199th Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2563	Well, this is about building up the Zaglavac-Sobra ferry port. And I have to say that the County Port Authority of Dubrovnik-Neretva County did not run that project to co-finance the state budget for this year. So I don't think there's any need to accept this amendment then.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2564	Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2565	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President and Mr. Secretary. I'd still like to argue with the amendment. In fact, there is only one dock at the Zaglavac-Sobra ferry port. The frequency is next. The ferry line Dubrovnik-Sobra-Dubrovnik, then the ferry line Praprano-Sobra-Sprana-Ptratno all year round, during the whole year actually two ships nights on that dock. In addition, we also have boat landing Rijeka-Dubrovnik-Rijek, then the Dubrovnik-Sobra-Dubrovnik catamaran. And I mean, I'm holding that there's actually not enough one consent. And the most urgent thing is actually to make. Of course, the nominal investor is the port administration. As for the Municipality of Mljet itself, they created an idea project and secured another thousand kunas. Therefore, I ask you nicely to put the amendment to the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2566	Thank you. Who's mad at this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 200th Amendment of MPs Romana Jerkovic and Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2567	This amendment cannot be accepted. Therefore, the activities so far required to increase in these amendments concerned the promotion of port traffic or the promotion of regular shipping, container and roro lines. The Agency for the Protection of Competition has established that, within the meaning of the State aid Act, there is unlawful support if support is given to the port transport boater. However, we have found one solution and the subsidisation of regular container lines is planned through a new one environmental protection programme in transport and new AP/70 activity. And that's where we predicted 10.7 million kunas, which is consistent with the law and the State Aid Regulation. And we believe that it is not necessary in that sense to accept the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2568	Representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2569	Mr. Vice President and Mr. Secretary! If you have indeed provided these funds, I will give up this amendment since it does not comply with the Competition Agency. But I would like to stress that it is necessary to continue with such subsidisation since it is... Service since '99. on here made it possible to renaissance of container transport in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is not so important for Rijeka today, because the river is touched by megaships of megaboats, but let's say for the port of Ploče. And potentially for Zadar and Split, we must certainly continue these funds. So I'm giving up the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2570	Thank you. Amendment 200 withdrawn. 201st representativeplatmir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2571	This amendment to Honorable Mr. Mršić cannot be accepted because it is again a similar answer. The National Railway Infrastructure Programme also provides for initial means to encourage further development of combined transport, so that there is no need to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2572	Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2573	So I'd like to say here that I suggested 10 million kuna for an intermodal terminal in Koprivnica. We've been talking for ten years about making one terminal for combined transport. We held talks with the administrations led by Mr. Mlinarić and Mr. Kobal. We were in Italy, too. We even got the cars and the lines and we defined everything. Then it was blocked with that mega project that was supposed to be implemented here in Zagreb, which apparently has more fog than it has real initiatives about it. So we have a location permit from the early '80s for a truly one intermodal terminal in Koprivnica. I think it would be a good idea to predict those funds and start with that, because we can't have everything on corridor 10. Finally, what has been done in Spačva is half empty because too many permits have been issued in Turkey and Bulgaria. And the trucks in Spacheva don't go on cars, but they're still running out of country and county roads, and they're polluting our environment. But we have to have on corridor 5B also something that will ensure that a container and truck are built on the wagons. And we think it would be good to do it right at the border of Koprivnica where there is already project documentation and what can be realised already this year. So, loading trucks on cars can be done within a month or two. I would ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2574	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 202. Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2575	This amendment cannot be accepted on the grounds that local self-government units and regional self-government units have also run certain projects from competent port administrations and these proposed funds in the proposal for a state budget are sufficient to continue the planned development of public transport ports of county importance.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2576	Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2577	Dear Mr. Vice President, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. The amount I suggested to be in the budget is exactly as high as it was increased for the Office of the Prime Minister around 6% and slightly more than the proposed inflation. 64 million kunas were made in the 2007 budget and the current item is 60 million kuna. We had a case where the Valbisca-Lopar ferry line was introduced damaged by a port in Lopar. We have already had two amendments here relating to construction and reconstruction projects for building and upgrade facilities in public transport ports. The islands can no longer physically get close to the mainland in a way that we can pull them out like the Bračans and the Soltans moved the Mdulja but we can certainly do it if we allow better ports and faster ferry lines. Older people say that in some islands there is a connection like in the time of Austria-Hungarian. I know that Austria and Hungary are in the European Union that we are seeking, but I do not think that this must be an example for us, and I would therefore ask that this amendment be voted upon in order to therefore improve the condition of the ports on the islands and in the coast where our ferrys drive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2578	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. Insufficient number of votes. 203rd Amendment of Representatives Dina Kozlevac and Tanja Vrbat.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2579	Yes, it is about the rescue of Pula's harbor, and it is indeed one problem that is current and that needs to be addressed. But we're going to solve it in another way, not the way it's suggested here. It's about one port of county importance that I don't repeat it. Therefore,... It's supposed to be the county port administration. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The government is absolutely ready to help finance the loan. With the government, the Istrian County and Pula should be involved. We are having some discussions and we will find a solution to how to resolve the port dam issue in Pula which I repeat absolutely necessary and should be done as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2580	Representative Dino Kozlevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2581	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. The Pula Harbor problem has been dragging back for four years what we know in the Assembly in the same way as the same amendment, and the amendment was generally rejected. Last year, from a pay phone, the representative of the ministry said it would be resolved this year because the project and the size of the investment is of state importance. Without municipalities, or the city of Pula, the county without the help of the state cannot solve it. So I understood your words that you'd be handling it this year. Respecting what you said, I'm not asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2582	Thank you. Amendment 203 withdrawn. Amendment 204. Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2583	This amendment is therefore instead of 30 million kuna... ask for 32 million kuna for a subsidy or for a subsidisation of the Jadrolinia fleet. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, we have predicted to say 30 million kuna for this activity in 2008, and we think that that is enough, so we do not need to accept the amendment. I'm sorry, it's not about the subsidy. It's about the programme of restoration and the development of the passenger fleet. So instead of 30 you're looking for 32, we think 30 million is enough and we're sure that's enough this year and that's why we can't accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2584	Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2585	I have to say I'm satisfied with the explanation because when the minister explained he stopped and I'm sure he's not sure whether it's enough or not. And I'll try to explain why I asked 2 million kunas more. It's very simple. So this proposal is equal to that last year and as you know in Croatia prices are growing, so this is actually worth less than last year. However, for 2009 and 2010, it is projected to amount to 45 million kuna, which is a sign to me that the ministry is in fact aware that this should be increased. So let me help the ministry do some things this year and not next year and help the ministry improve some things these and not next year I suggest that the amendment be accepted. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2586	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 205th Amendment of Representative Željko Vincelj.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2587	This amendment is also held that there is no need to accept it and we do not accept it for reasons why instead of 3.5 million kunas for sports airport safety, we are also asking for it. We believe that the above funds that we have foreseen in the 2008 budget are sufficient for all planned activities in 2008.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2588	Representative Željko Vincelj.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2589	Well, by accepting this amendment, the Government of the Republic of Croatia would certainly valorize extremely large for our county scales, an extremely great effort to include this part of Croatia in this kind of traffic in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. So far, we have done the most that we can, bought the land, built the project, and this year we have planned to build a runway and build a airport and connect the infrastructure, but we all need 5 million kuna. In our budget we provided 2 million kuna and 3 million kuna we would still need from the Ministry of Transport, the sea and the infrastructure. I demand a vote on that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2590	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 206th Amendment of Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2591	We do not accept this amendment for the reason that the funds provided for in the position of the intervention helipad on Croatian islands are sufficient for planned activities in 2008.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2592	Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2593	It seems to me that this budget item in this amount was planned only after a lady was born in a helicopter that was trafficling between Hvar and Split but the problem is that the lady was not with Hvar but with Visa and another ship came from Vis to Hvar, which is why it all happened together. Fortunately, it ended well. So then, with 100,000 kunas, it was raised to a million and 200 for saying hello. However, since this is not the case, I suppose it is a helipad on that island, but since it is not the only island without a helipad and it is to assume that similar situations will happen to us on other islands, and we hope that it will also happily end, I believe that these funds need to be increased, but I am also glad that this is the first time in that amount of this year's budget. So, with 100 thousand kunas raised to a million 250, or we became aware that it was necessary, so that consciousness would be further enhanced I suggest that this item be doubled and placed on 2.5 million kuna. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2594	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 207 MPs, Luke Denone.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2595	We do not accept this amendment for the reason that the funds provided for amounting to 35 million kuna. And these funds are designed exclusively for the purchase of security and protective equipment in the performance of works that are important for the safety and safety of air traffic in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2596	A representative of Luke Denon.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2597	I appreciate it if that's the case. I just remind myself that at the end of last year and before the elections at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, a request was submitted by the owner, and the owner of the state of Croatia, i.e. the majority owner's ministry, was to grant the loan that Mr. Shucker had to grant to bring this airport into one plane, i.e. levelling the standard of equipment and security as well as other airports. If that's another 33 million kuna I couldn't unfortunately find. I thank and do not ask for a vote then, I believe that the 33 million kuna will then be sufficient to begin to level the standard of Rijeka airport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2598	Thank you. Amendment 207 withdrawn. 208th legislators Romana Jerkovic and Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2599	This amendment can also not be accepted. The explanation is practically the same as in Amendment 207 that I was talking about earlier.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2600	Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2601	Mr. Vice President and Mr. Minister, I didn't understand in the previous amendment when you said that those funds were secured completely for air traffic, or for Rijeka airport?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2602	Completely.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2603	I therefore insist that this amendment remain the future Rijeka airport is currently lagging behind both for safety and for all other parameters which should satisfy a modern traffic. So I believe that these funds are necessary for transport to Rijeka airport to be safe and could increase the operations of that port in the coming period. So please vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2604	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 209th Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2605	This amendment can also not be accepted because the planned funds for the project equipping port captains and vessels devices... the equipment in the 2008 State budget proposal, based on an analysis of the real needs and plans for purchase. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And accordingly, the resources provided in the State budget will be sufficient to cover these planned costs, the purchase of vessels, devices and other equipment for the needs of port captains, so we believe there is no need to accept this proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2606	And Agent Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2607	Thank you. So these funds are equal to those that were last year. But, of course, because of inflation, they are actually worth less than last year. With this amendment, they would actually equalize with last year's unless in all your analyses you predicted that part. Also, I suggested compensation, reduction, so the code for 500 thousand kuna at the security intelligence agency. But this time, however, Mr. Minister, I will believe your analysis and I will not ask for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2608	Thank you. Amendment 209 withdrawn. 210th Representative, Željko Vincelj.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2609	This amendment cannot be accepted because according to the contract on concessions, construction, management and maintenance of the Zagreb-Macelj highway, construction, management and maintenance of the Zagreb-Macelj highway,... Zagreb-Macelj d.o.o. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the government of the Republic of Croatia predicts the construction of a second lane of highways, so, in the length of the 3.5km. And we predict that after the negotiations that need to be negotiated, the concession company will be provided with savings from the refinancing and additions of the concession contract and.... all from the budget and without additional State guarantees. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, it is the subject of another way of financing and building these 3.5km of other tape on Krapina-Macelj.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2610	Representative Željko Vincelj.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2611	Thank you very much. If I understand correctly in any case only with another funding model goes a full profile of the highway on that stock, right? In that case, I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2612	Thank you very much. Amendment 210 withdrawn. 211th Representativeplatimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2613	This amendment cannot be accepted for the reason that this position is K570421, which is called road infrastructure projects, it is not intended for financing and building state roads. This is foreseen in the Croatian Roads Budget. And this position envisaged for the preparation of capital infrastructure projects in terms of developing study profitability, I don't know, and some other preparation of documentation for the construction of state roads. Therefore, this cannot be placed under this position, and therefore we cannot accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2614	Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2615	But I suggested adding a new position, not to be placed under this position, right? And when added, after adding a new position, it is the construction of an international fast road corridor D5 from the Hungarian border to the north, to the state border with the BIH in the south. The point is, then, it's been promising to people for four years. And it was especially promising at the end of last year, and those promises turned out to be machines already traveling towards this, and only when the snow bathed to start working there. Is it?- I'm sorry. Unfortunately, the Grubish Field, Daruvar, the Gareshnica are practically in one traffic isolation. They've had four years to connect them with a normal road, preferably a fast road, or a sub-level highway or worse with a highway, is it? And here I am asking that the initial funds of 5 million kuna be allocated to make project documentation so that it can be done in the future because unfortunately in the budget of the Croatian Roads you are reducing for fast roads. This year you have predicted just as much as you have obligations for this year, and next year you have predicted 100 million kunas, because next year you will not be able to pay the debts of this year, let alone do what is written in your coalition agreement. Therefore, because of the citizens of the Grubish Field, Daruvar, Gareshnica and Pakrac, I demand that the amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2616	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the votes he needed. 212 also representative of Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2617	This amendment can also not be accepted for the same reason I said before. Fully grasping and accepting what Mr. Representative is saying. However, the amendment should then be put to the financial plan to be voted tonight, the Croatian Roads' financial plan rather than this position provided for here. And I repeat that which is exclusively intended for those purposes that I spoke of before.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2618	Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2619	Since it is, therefore, about the sub-level magistrates and tours of the town of Koprivnica that do not exist. It is this item, as you have explained, that is to make a study of the course, to study environmental impact and to make all previous documents. Therefore, this position was created, as designed to be attached to the sub-level highway and the bypass of the town of Koprivnica. If there was a reason not to be there on this for D5, then quite certainly the sub-level highway it must be and the tour of the city must be there because the coalition agreement entered into that the Podravska highway in the profile of a fast road outside the corridor of the settlement. Therefore, this particular item is designed in the ministry to be attached to the Podravska highway, a bypass of the town of Koprivnica. And if you don't start doing this this year, so don't start designing, you won't be able to complete the government's programme and coalition agreement that envisioned that by the end of this government's term you build a Podravska highway. So I'm going to request a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2620	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 213th representative of Brankica Crljenko.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2621	It's a project that's practically already started. It is the state road Sibenik – Drnis – Knin – the border of Bosnia and Herzegovina, one of the roads that is extremely important, needed and which has practically already begun and which is intensively preparing for further construction. However, the means to build that road cannot be sought here in these positions, which require an amendment from the respected representative. Therefore, for this reason, we cannot accept this amendment by absolutely supporting this project.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2622	Representative Branko Crlenko.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2623	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. I would really like to repeat that the fast road Sibenik – Drniš – Knin border with Bosnia and Herzegovina is of exceptional importance for Sibenik County. Its construction will reduce the travel of people and goods, which is of great importance in the future for the development of Sibenik-Knin County. I consider it necessary to allocate these funds from the state budget in order for the road to be completed within the planned and planned deadline, which is from 2008 to 2012. Please put the amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2624	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the votes he needed. 214th representative of Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2625	This is about an amendment that requires 100 million kuna for the construction of the fast road Gradec – Koprivnica – Kola. The answer is the same as in my previous answers, which is that this is not where you can look and provide 100 million kuna for the construction of that road, but rather the budget of the Croatian roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2626	Representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2627	Well, you see, the guardian of the coalition agreement in the tenth month of the Križevci said the following. Next year someone will reach Crossroads by highway, or fast road, and someone will arrive at the car's rate. Unfortunately, it won't happen especially not this first part. The warden thought of himself that he'd probably come on a fast road, because there's no project documentation for it. So, project documentation for Gradec, Križevci, Military Kloštar at the moment does not exist. And I can accept that then it shouldn't go here on you. But there is still no study of the course for the Vojakovački Kloštar – Koprivnica – Gola. So you said that this item was just meant to make such previous studies, study of the route, study of environmental impact, and others. If you can't build it let it go on Croatian roads, although there I repeat you have no money because you are this year. You don't, you don't! This year you have 500 million, next year you have 100 million. You can't make a 100 million-dollar road to Bjelovar that costs you 400 million, a road to Koprivnica that costs you 700 million. A tour of the Varazdin that costs you 400 million, a merger from Virovitica to the one that costs another billion. So you can't do that with 100 million. The road is not built by magic sticks, but by machines and must be paid. Yeah? So I'm asking you to vote on this. It was simply the guardian of your coalition agreement promised in the Križevci. I'm just what he promised turned into an amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2628	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get enough votes. 215th Amendment of Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2629	This amendment cannot be accepted for the simple reason why this position is required to increase funds from 11 million to 20 million kuna. This position is not for the construction of water supply systems on islands, but rather for this water subsidy position on islands, and that is the difference and for this reason we cannot accept the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2630	Mr. Vice President, I'm sorry I haven't heard the explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2631	Yeah, yeah, I get it. Please repeat, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2632	So I'm saying that this position that you asked to increase from 11 million to 20 million kuna is not a position to build water supply systems on islands, but rather a position to subsidize water transport on islands, i.e. to subsidize water on islands. Therefore, we cannot accept this amendment for that reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2633	Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2634	Yes, Mr. Vice President, we've been here for eight years in the 21st century, and some islands still haven't solved the issue of water. Although Mr. Minister said it was a position to subsidise the water issue and increase that position in any case would then reduce additional prices of water on islands that under the Island Law must be leveled with land prices. But I would warn that no matter how much water we don't have, sometimes it doesn't stop us from pouring champagne several times around the island that doesn't have water for various openings. And how I wouldn't want to dilute that champagne with water, because it's probably going to be open again because there's a choice, and so on. And given your explanation, I'm gonna withdraw this amendment and I'm not asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2635	Thank you very much. Amendment 215 withdrawn. Amendment 216, also a representative of Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2636	Here I have to say that this amendment cannot be accepted regardless of what Mr. Bauk said and I have been working on for a number of years on the watering of Croatian islands and this programme continues. However, given the ministry's request to run projects by units of local and regional self-government, the proposed funds here are considered sufficient to continue the planned island development in 2008. And therefore there is no need to increase this amount from 72 million kuna to 95 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2637	Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2638	Mr. Secretary, with this analysis of yours, even though I agreed with that one, I can't agree with you, and you're being denied the budget for the year 2007 which is predicted by 89 million kuna in this article, and now it's dropped to 72 million kuna. It reminds me of another case about so-called. To punish units of local self-government where HDZ is not in power, or to say it more nicely to encourage it as in that famous January agreement whose signatories we won't mention their names. So the truth is you didn't go very well on the islands this time, but you're not so bad you have to cut this item down by 17 million kuna. And because of this, this is one of the most important items for us, this is not developmental for the islands and islanders, but a separate budget because it separates us more and more from our Croatian coastal areas and I would like to ask for a vote on this amendment and to increase this item at least to what has been increased for inflation last year, that this development is going as quickly as the rest of Croatia does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2639	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 217 MPs Zeljko Jovanovic, Romana Jerkovic, Slavko Linić, Luka Denon and Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2640	This amendment cannot be accepted because we hold that it does not belong here in this position, namely this is and the means envisaged are not the ones that we can accept. This is about co-financing of the construction of a multi-purpose city hall of the sports recreation centre of Višnik. I would like to say here that this year at the position of the state budget we have opened a new position called coastal development where 47 million kuna is planned and through this position we can also talk about possible co-financing and such objects that are proposed here. Therefore, there is no need to create a new position, i.e. new financial resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2641	Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, it was also interesting to hear in the discussion of the budget that the sports centre Višnik in Zadar fits into this coastal development programme, and let's say this swimming pool complex will consist of five swimming pools, coastal development, new beach belts with a beach for people with disabilities does not fit into this coastal development programme. So I insist that we vote in favour of this amendment team before Prime Minister Sanader at the reception after the European swimming championship in small pools said that the government will give maximum support to this complex in Rijeka and I hope that this maximum support does not just mean coming to the opening of the European Championship and painting.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2642	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 218 amendments to the congress of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2643	I would like to say that this amount is intended to finance gender equality activities within the Ministry itself in accordance with the implementation of national policy to promote gender equality and it will be sufficient for 2008.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2644	Representative Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2645	Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, it is in some way commendable that this is one of the few ministries that have even foreseen any item for the implementation of national policy. However, given that this ministry is among other things, and as part of the national policy, one of the obligors of the budget when it comes to a new national strategy to combat domestic violence in the family, it is, in fact, in the measures envisaged under this new national strategy that you adopted at last month's government in the 11th month, among other things, that your ministry should first establish a special regulation to determine the priorities of the rights of victims of domestic violence to the use of houses, state-owned apartments, etc. and other residential care for victims of domestic violence. In view of this task, which is written in this national strategy, I consider the amount of 50 thousand kuna absolutely insufficient for these purposes, so I suggest that we increase that item to at least 200 thousand kuna for this year. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2646	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 219th Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2647	This amendment cannot be accepted, and the explanation is as follows. In the proposal of the National Programme of Railway Infrastructure for which the funds are secured in four positions in the Ministry's budget, the construction of the Subsused-Self-Bregan railway line was elaborated in detail in the section of construction and construction of railway lines with the planned amount of 256... 4 million kuna for the five-year period, and the dynamics of the insurance of financial resources and the implementation of projects are determined by the priorities and the preparation of technical documentation for their implementation. Therefore, for this reason, this amendment cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2648	Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2649	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, this way I am not satisfied with what it is not possible to classify for the next reason. It is about one railway to Bregan – Samobor - Saint Sunday – Zagreb. I saw that it was planned to do so in this development of Croatian Railways by 2012, but we really do not understand after what this project was supposed to be done by this year, after it is clear that 70 thousand people are gravitating this railway, that railway line, that line, that it would be profitable that the money on it can be earned not to do so, that more than the local authorities want it where the HDZ is participating in the Samobor government so that I do not see the reason why this railway is not working, and I hope that there is no reason for local interest that one line bus connects the city of Zagreb with Samobor. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2650	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 220 representatives of Arsen Buk.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2651	So we do not accept this amendment because we hold that there is no need to accept this amendment, which requires that funds to encourage regular maritime shipping lines be increased from 375 million kuna to 393 million kuna because, in accordance with all agreements and needs with carriers, we hold that this amount of 375 million kuna is sufficient for this activity in 2008.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2652	Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2653	Unfortunately, I can't agree with the ministry's analysis again. So this amount if it increased by 18 million kuna would actually be the same as this year's, because of course it's about 5-6% higher and we know that prices are rising, etc. Which means we won't actually be able to keep this standard, either, so the railroad we have on the islands and the lines we have on the islands. Now the islanders are quite emotionally related to Jadrolini, those who, with other companies, are therefore rap, Mediterranean sailing for them. They are physically bound to their ships, and their timetables are bound in all other ways of life. That is another one of those crucial amendments that I wanted them to pass, however they did not. So obviously we don't have the whole night line of Split – Stari Grad, there is no third line for the island of Vis and there are no other lines required by the units of local self-government, so here are the islands when they come to Split on the waterfront just have to sit down and sing the one "The far is my house", because the obvious amendment won't pass.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2654	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 221 amendments to Agent Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2655	This amendment is also of the opinion that there is no need to accept, it is an increase from one million to two million kunas. We believe that the planned amount in 2008 is sufficient for these activities and there is no need to increase that item.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2656	Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2657	I agree with this analysis, however, but in the last few amendments we have tried to cross the port, across water, across fleets and ships, across helicopters, across ship lines, and nothing else we have left but to try to improve the situation on the islands through air traffic, because many island spatial plans simply provide for so many tourist zones that people will simply have to come to the islands in all kinds of ways, so here it doesn't seem to go through the air either. So it seems to me that the definition that islands are surrounded by four sides of the sea must be complemented to be surrounded on the fifth side by plans and analyses of the Ministry of the Sea because no amendment that would go to improve the situation on the islands, and most of the items are the same as last year, so it actually did not go any smaller. Therefore, I will give up this amendment, I do not demand a vote, and I ask you, Mr. Minister, that you do not allow the Ministry not to become the Ministry of the Môra, these nights and others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2658	Thank you. Amendment 221 withdrawn. Thank you, Minister. We are going to the positions of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction. Secretary of State Bugs You're scrawny. Here you go. 222. Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2659	The amendment is not accepted. Explanation. The maintenance of deposits is within the jurisdiction of local self-government units, i.e. municipal companies, and as regards the recovery of the Environmental Protection Fund has been funded and has provided funds for the Istrian County with the basis of competitions carried out in these last two years amounting to 171 million kunas and some fines. Out of that, local self-government units in the Istrian county withdrew only 15 million. I'm sorry we have to find out. Therefore, work should be stepped up in local self-government units, as the fund pays towards the situations set out. So the funds are secured, you got them through the tenders, and there's no need to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2660	Representative Boris Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2661	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll try to explain 222 and 223 'cause they're connected. It is about the recovery of dumps in Istria County, i.e. the closure of the Kaštjun dump, the first phase in Pula. The fact is that certain funds have been allocated, however, as we know only since 1 January in the jurisdiction of the units of local self-government to issue the necessary building permits and that this has been the case for a long time, we have set off with a more intensive recovery of the dump, and we believe that the state could step in with more resources, since it is about protecting the environment and one development, and since tourism is one of the major branches and that it must take better care of state development and waste management, we propose that these two amendments be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2662	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 223. also Club of IDS Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2663	223 is not accepted, with the same explanation as the previous amendment, because Kashtjun is included in this 170 million from the fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2664	Representative Boris Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2665	So I think I explained in the 22nd and 223rd amendments, because they're connected.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2666	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 224 MPs Mirela Holy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2667	The amendment is not accepted. In 2007, 2 million were spent on the financing of associations, projects of associations. This year that amount has been increased by a million kunas. In view of the experiences and programmes so far, we consider that this amount of 3 million is sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2668	Representative Mirel Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2669	Dear Mr. Snotty. My idea when proposing this amendment was next. In fact, the construction of waste management centres begins, and you are probably very well aware that citizens react quite badly to the idea that such facilities are being built in their vicinity, so even though I welcome the increase of the amount by a million kuna this year, I think it should be increased by another million to simply combat this... The effect and I think that NGOs are crucial in the public education of political elites on the importance of environmental protection, which is, of course, a basic prerequisite for the implementation of an effective and transparent environment policy and I think that NGOs are the most important allies of government and ministry in the implementation of such projects. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So please put this amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2670	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 225th Amendment, representative of Luke Denon.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2671	The amendment is not accepted. Namely, when it comes to waste management centres according to the waste management plan adopted by the Government and published in the "National Journal" and waste management strategy, the Environmental Protection Fund is financing these recoverys. The access road in the case of the Viskovi dump is a matter of local self-government, and according to the obligations in the project, local self-government is required to build the road. Otherwise, 30 million kuna has been paid for this dump and its recovery by the Environmental Protection Fund, and the project itself has been run under the IPA to be financed from these European funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2672	A representative of Luke Denon.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2673	Of course, I know very well that for the central waste dump zone Mariština is an agreement with the Fund and with the Primorje-Gorski County units of local self-government as it is, but while we wait for the evaluation of the project for the IPA project and accreditation that we do not know if we will win, whether it is questionable or not, we have started building that road. Without that road, there is, of course, no modern dump, or waste disposal centre, the way it is done, was the first in Croatia. An illustrious example. There is all the documentation, the start of the construction is scheduled for the end of this year, and here I was looking, if 20 million kuna is possible to make this road faster, if we would get those IPA funds so that we can have a waste disposal centre in this period by 2009, as the Republic of Croatia deserves. I think that 20 million kunas can only help to quickly build a waste disposal centre with a view to a view example, as the waste disposal strategy in the Republic of Croatia is foreseen. Please, here's a vote if you can.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2674	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 226th Amendment, also represented by Luke Denone.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2675	It is not accepted with a similar explanation as for the previous, with the fact that, this is about the Soviets, that the project is running under the IPA Fund, within the framework of the IPA funding projects, the Environment Fund has provided 18 million kunas and will have to be financed in part by INA.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2676	A representative of Luke Denon.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2677	In the programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which we had the opportunity to read at the Constitutional Session, it stands, of course, among other things, the recovery of black pits. I call them the so-called Government of the Republic of Croatia. And there are namely some black pits in Croatia. I wonder where the black pit of the Soviet has gone since in that four-year term it was on top one before that. Number one of interest in the Republic of Croatia, since this is the problem of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, is not a unit of local self-government. She's gone. She was, I know I have a project, I know I have a Minister's study where even in the media, number one is published. She's gone. And since it's a potential ecological bomb, to solve the rehabilitation of other dumps and build this new one that we were just talking about, it is also necessary to resuscitate something called the Soviet. If he's not in the budget this year, waiting for the IPA project, he certainly won't see the light of day. I ask that there be, the initial means to indicate it in the budget, that we are sure that it hasn't been four years past in the first place, so now it's suddenly gone, released on purpose or by chance. Here, I ask that these minimum funds be put in place because of the Primorje-Gorski County and because of what we are all investing in the purity of our space, to vote on this amendment and to put additional funds somewhere to resuscitate the Soviets, the black pit in the Primorje-Gorski County.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2678	Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 227 MPs, Mirela Holy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2679	The amendment is not accepted. We believe that the funds set out in the budget are quite enough for this project.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2680	Representative Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2681	Dear Mr. Snotty! So you know very well that there is no system of hazardous waste management in Croatia at all after burning down the burner... which is an objectively very big problem with regard to waste management in general in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker is not understood because of the presidential bell.]] Although many black dots have begun to be remedied, mainly through the Environment Fund, the fact is that many black spots in the Republic of Croatia have not yet been detected and that there is no idea what will happen and what their impact will be on the environment in the long term. I therefore consider it wise to increase this item in the budget. And so I suggest we vote on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2682	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 228th Representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2683	The amendment is not accepted. The funds are secured through ministry projects through those positions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2684	Representative Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2685	Yeah. Same answer from all ministries. Secured funds through various positions. And when we brought the National Policy for the Promotion of Gender Equality, then the Deputy Prime Minister and today said that for the implementation of the national policy since then, from 2006 on, here in each ministry, there will be a special item with the amount to implement the National Policy for the Promotion of Gender Equality, and here I am not giving up this amendment and please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2686	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. And the 229th Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2687	The amendment is not accepted. Namely, the cadastral measurement is not in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, the spatial arrangement. This position of catastrian measurement is the position of the State Geodetic Administration. As far as I know, the funds for the measurement are determined, secured at the position of the State Geodetic Administration, and according to the State Measurement Act and the Real Estate Cataster, the measurement is carried out in a way that is partly financed from the State budget, means from the position of the State Geodetic Administration, the units of local or regional self-government and real estate owners. At the end of the 11th month last year, the State Geodetic Administration sent a letter to show interest to all local self-government units to report their demands on new cadastrian measurements. And after the adoption of the budget, the State Geodetic Administration will also plan to implement these new cadastrian measurements. But the ministry doesn't have that position.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2688	I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2689	Thank you. Amendment 229 withdrawn. Thank you, Secretary of State. We move to the positions of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Minister of Science, Education and Sports Dragan Primorac. Amendment 230 of Agent Iron Flea.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2690	The amendment is not accepted. Since there are no colleagues, then I won't get into that argument.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2691	We should vote because there are no amendments to the MPs. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the votes he needed. 231st Amendment of Representatives Dina Kozlevac and Tanja Vrbat. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2692	The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2693	Give me a brief explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2694	A brief explanation is in the section that comes from income allocated to income allocated for decentralised funds, especially after the 2001 law, the ministry has no legal authority to allocate for such facilities. But what is most important is that already in 2002, one million kuna investment was made, which was enough for reconstruction and upgrade during that period. And that's another reason why we don't accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2695	Representative Dino Kozlavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2696	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary! It's about the school in Bartonigli, so the Italian elementary school that should actually be the primary school in Bartonigli, I apologize. It's about getting that school up and running. The school is being upgraded for reasons of increasing the number of children and meeting the school standards set. The amendment is made in the same way as several positions within three ministries or two, there are positions where such an amendment can be proposed or where it has not been seen and it is not visible whether these funds can be used for that purpose or not. Therefore, the amendment is so. I'm asking you to vote for him.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2697	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 232. Representatives Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2698	The amendment is not accepted. . /. I would like to stress that the extracurricular activities of students are financed from other items. One of them is part of the work of NGOs. In particular, we have the amount allocated somewhere around 9 million kuna for these activities but there is one very significant activity that has been working very intensively in Croatia in the last four years and this is also the programme of the Croatian community of technical culture. In particular, in this great programme that was implemented last year, a large number of children were predicted exactly 16.6 million kuna in 2008 alone, which practically fits into this entire program of extracurricular activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2699	Representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2700	Dear Minister, did I hear correctly when you told me that a part of the teacher is being financed by an extracurricular activity through the funding program of NGOs?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2701	No teachers, no classes.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2702	Okay. Nevertheless, the fact that you have reduced funds to encourage extracurricular activities compared to last year's budget is the fact that you have reduced funds to encourage extracurricular activities. I would just remind you, I believe that you know it as well as I do, and as most MPs and MPs here to advocate the introduction of one-way classes, that there are more and more one-way schools in Croatia, that that means that that time of the afternoon most often school must be open and in some way equipped with a larger number of other and extracurricular activities. And if we want to go towards one-way school in the full sense of the meaning of such a way of organising schoolwork, then that means we're going to have to increase significantly, not like you're saying, reducing support for extracurricular programs. On the other hand, you are somewhat showing how much this really is about a real project and how much it really is about demagogues or explanations and stories that have no real basis. So I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2703	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 233. Representatives Dino Kozlevac and Tanja Vrbat.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2704	This amendment cannot be accepted primarily because of the amendment and addition of the 2001 basic school law. However, I would like to say that this project has already been co-financed together with the National University of Trieste, with a ratio of 50 to 50% and in 2006 it was built and as such an investment was 5 million and 700 thousand kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2705	Representative Dino Kozlevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2706	Well, it means continuing to build or finally build an Italian elementary school in Bujam in which the construction is meant by local regional self-government, it is a matter of bilateral agreements between Croatia and Italy, and where Italy participates with significant resources and where it is normal for the Republic of Croatia to participate in the construction of the school, i.e. 300 thousand kuna means that it would be needed far from what it is worth and cost. Therefore, I propose that this amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2707	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 234th is also the representative of Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2708	This amendment cannot be accepted because the planned activities were set out in 2008. So far, investments that have been very justified, although you say they are needed are also increased significantly in the past year, and in this one according to the projected funds, by the founders of schools, and these are cities and counties.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2709	Representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2710	Your Honor, Mr. Minister, do you know why they've been increased and why it's a good index? Because in 2005, you completely abolished all the funds for the purchase of books in school libraries, so it's logical that it's a good index. From zero to anything is a super index. That of course does not mean that the actual amount of these funds is sufficient. It was as I said in 2004 spent 6 million kunas, in 2005 you completely suspended them, so there were zero kunas and therefore I suggest that the funds for the purchase of books in primary school libraries return to the level of 2004 so that at least a little bit of this shortfall that the government in libraries in some way compensated. In your body language, I don't see any way that you understand and agree with what I'm saying here. I hope that the MPs will support it by voting on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2711	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 235th Amendment of Representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2712	This amendment cannot be accepted. The planned funds are set out in Chapter A580003 to promote extracurricular activities in secondary schools and high school education systems in the same amount as in 2007. In our experience, that's enough. However, I would like to say that there has been some activity this year, and therefore we have increased that item, that is the framework of NGOs I repeat 9 million kuna but also the programme of the Croatian Community of Technical Culture, which includes a huge number of children and where it is now 16.6 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2713	Representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2714	Dear Minister, there is a certain historical sequence here as well as anywhere else. You are right when you say that the funds remained at the same level as they did in 2007, but in 2007, however, in the budget you reduced these funds significantly and therefore I do not think it is a good trend to reduce the allocation for extracurricular activities in schools and higher school education still to be reduced. However, you need to invest more than in primary education and preschool education for the simple reason that when you look at and go to our primary schools and all the higher schools you see that there are extracurricular activities and some kind of action to say so within the community of the school or high school itself. There's something about elementary schools. There's nothing there. There you need to do a lot more than what seems now and what you're actually planning. So I'm also asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2715	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 236th also representing Maria Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2716	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This amendment cannot be accepted. The planned funds are on the head and this is extremely significant A580006 and it is a professional training of teachers and teachers. However, it is very important to say that the funds have increased by 45% compared to 2007. However, we often forget that there are two other extremely important items. One is at the Professional Education Agency to perfect more than half a million kunas and also the Education and Education Agency almost 550,000 kunas. So when you look inside these three items and increase 45% we've done the best we can so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2717	Representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2718	Your Honor, I believe you did the best you could. However, this is all less expensive when all three items are summed up than was allocated for those purposes in the 2003 and 2002 budget. This is about increasing, a proposal to increase the funding for professional training and education of teachers and teachers in secondary schools and to improve the implementation of national programmes. I don't know how much you're following, but there's a new national programme coming into the Croatian Parliament every now and then. Here, Madam Representative Sobol has been warning all day, among other things, about the National Programme on Gender Equality. We don't have the resources in your ministry to have them if we don't have enough resources to educate teachers who actually have to be heads of all of these educations. So please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2719	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 237th also representing Maria Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2720	This amendment cannot be accepted, I have given an explanation earlier, I will repeat that the planned funds are in 2000 and, of course, with the help of the founders in accordance with current practice but also the legal obligation to amend the law so far in 2001. Because it permanently invests. And you're right when you say it's local self-government. But of course it is part of their obligation, because we want better education within Croatia. And the country is the only one who can't worry about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2721	Representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2722	Well, Your Honor, he's a little bit, this is about... A library with professional literature, unlike when we discussed elementary school libraries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And here the same situation is true for extracurricular activities, where, if in primary schools, the situation is as tolerable in high school is almost unbearable. Here in Zagreb and out of Zagreb, when high school students come to us here very often in the Croatian Parliament, they complain when they want to borrow a book from a mandatory book in the school library. It's got a maximum of 10, 15, 20. In some extraordinary cases and 30 copies of some books from mandatory booklets in school libraries. Most often there are at least 3, 4, 5, 6 parallels that simply aren't enough. In 2004, we planned and spent 5.37 million kunas to obtain these books, and in 2005, we again completely abolished these funds for book purchases in libraries. And because of such a course of events that yet a little, in a way... That we didn't have a one-year supply at all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I propose to return the funds to the level we had in 2004, because the need simply didn't go away. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2723	Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 238 IDS MPs' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2724	That amendment cannot be accepted. Well, a brief explanation. The Ministry supports and finance the project, a quality, very high-quality starry project in Visnjan. And in 2007, we helped to acquire capital equipment. But in addition, the Višnjan stellars are also approved a three-year program of 450 thousand kuna. And already in contact with the leaders, of course, we have provided support to report to the competition, in accordance with the Law on Support and Purchase of Equipment, as well as other projects and programmes to continue this exceptional quality program.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2725	Representative Damir Cain, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2726	One of Croatia's most famous institutions outside Croatia's borders is this small starhouse in Visnjan. It is a beautiful story about Visnjan, Poreč, Istria, Croatia. And let me just read to you, that in her action she pointed out on astrometric measurements and on small-body stories. By mid-2005, they discovered 1750 asteroids. And that put them in 12 places in the world. With one brand already, NASA, I don't know, the one in Vienna, Rome, Tokyo, etc., etc. So this starry also shows that the Croatian horse has a race. And it's not always just our athletes, handball players, football players, rowers, jumpers, etc. And for that very reason, I think that with some more significant means at the annual level, we should help those beautiful young people led by Korado Korlovic. I would even suggest introducing that principle, if you discover an asteroid somewhere in the universe, rewarding them for that, and hanging from that discovery as athletes when they win a silver, bronze or gold medal. I think it's the equivalent of these great sports results, which are usually achieved by our boys and girls in various sports disciplines. And so much, bearing in mind that in that universe you have no names that these asteroids have like a cherry, Porec, Učka,.... etc., Buzet, etc., that's one story that should be supported. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2727	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 239th Representative of the Upper Heffer.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2728	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We cannot accept this amendment. There are several reasons, the key is legal. Although the ministry has managed to make since 2004, through its decentralised assets that go within the capital investment, the percentage of children who are in pre-school education with 43% in 2007 is exactly 60%, which is significant. However, because of the legal provisions and the mechanism that exists, we cannot accept the funding of such individual projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2729	Representative Goran Heffer.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2730	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. Namely, this is about kindergarten, people said, in Petrovci settlement, the Municipality of Bogdanovci, in Vukovar, therefore, the same thing I had recently in connection with the home of culture. Not to repeat that story that this is a more national environment and where each such object has multiple meanings, so not only the purpose of organising and gathering preschool children, but also the retention of young people in this one rural area. In a certain way and normalizing life, etc. And the role of socialising children from such war - affected areas is particularly highlighted. And I would ask you to vote on this amendment this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2731	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 240 representatives of Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2732	This amendment cannot be accepted, but through different forms it is already given full support for the implementation of the programme. In particular, I believe that not the government's programmes that definitely help what the Croatian state is doing that is still not enough and enough to do it on its own are important. You see that the funds have increased compared to 2007. And as for not the government's funding for the programs that you're asking the question. We have this year allocated considerably more money and it is now about a million and a half kuna, which according to our estimates is enough to cover in 2008.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2733	Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2734	I asked to increase the education and education of children with developmental difficulties from 8 million to 10 million kuna. You are indeed saying that the item increased by 2% compared to 2007 by 2%, by 2%. The cost of cars in the government is up 30%, the government's office costs are up 30%, and what we're giving our children with developmental difficulties you're saying is that you're going to increase by 2%. I ask you why we punish children with developmental difficulties, and we don't give them at least as much, or we don't increase them by at least as much inflation or how much growth of gross social product in the Republic of Croatia? One society, the quality of life, and society as a whole is appreciated by how much its citizens are integrated into that society. Especially then, we must take care of those who cannot take care of themselves. And children with developmental difficulties are practically those that we need to take special care of. And instead of increasing the item here by 30, 40%, we helped those centres that do it systematically, or here, to those who do it as NGOs. We increase them by miserable, miserable, sad, poor 2%. I think it's sad. This is one sad item. This is a sad increase that simply speaks of a motherly relationship with these children, and I am truly extremely sad. I'm not gonna ask for a vote on this. I'm just sad and sensual.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2735	Thank you. Amendment 240 withdrawn. Amendment of the 241st representative, Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2736	Thank you very much. This amendment cannot be accepted, but of course I would say we will cheer Mr. Mršić and all those who take care of children with special needs because for the first time in the Republic of Croatia in partnership with the Croatian Federation of Body Disabilities, the project of a network of schools without architectural barriers was built by 2005. It's one of the most important projects we're immensely proud of. At this point, we say that 27 primary and secondary schools have been adapted. Of course, the best Association of Body Disabilities knows how to do it. You know that there has been a change of law, that no object can be built anymore without being fully adapted to the availability of students with greater motor problems. And I think as much as you invest in this project, and you will see throughout the vertical that we work similarly with students, it is never enough but it is trade union more than ever in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2737	Representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2738	Your Honor, this is all right with you. You said that no new school could be built without being architecturally designed so that it would not be available to children and young people with disabilities. You said the 27 schools were adapted. It's all right. But what about those several hundred schools that are not adapted and that we need to adapt. My amendment is just talking about it, because you suggested in the 2008 budget that we reduce the resources to adapt the school space to make it available to children and young people with disabilities. So I ask my amendment to return these funds to at least the level they were in 2007 because we still have over a few hundred simple buildings that are our shared responsibility to adapt. And it's nice what you're saying. But on the other hand, it's just as sad to brag about the 27-adapted schools, while on the other hand you suggest that you reduce the funds for that purpose and you have hundreds of buildings that are not adapted. I therefore ask the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2739	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 242. Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2740	So, good thing the questions are behind each other. I will tell this amendment we cannot accept but we can explain to our colleague Lugaric because they are related issues. Namely, That's right. [[Accompaniment Shex: Mršić's representative is this amendment to Mršić's representative!]] True, but there are similar concepts of questions, and I answer to Mršić's representative. Namely, the Croatian Federation of Body Disabilities is the most competent body in this regard and what the Croatian Government has done and this ministry has developed a network of schools. Which means it's a process that lasts and when we mention 27 elementary and secondary schools it's the first time that happened in Croatia. But the network lasts and the construction will continue until the last school is built so the children can get a smooth school income.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2741	Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2742	So I have to say that here I come from Koprivnica where two schools – Centre for Education and Rehabilitation “Podravsko Sun” and the new school “Fran Galović” are fully adapted to all students. So, both physically disabled and blind people and deaf people. So everyone can move around in every room. We ran for example one school to be adapted in this project by one that was built in '89. A year. We didn't get into that project. With an amount of 700,000 kuna per year and even if you join the funds of local self-government you can adapt or adapt around four to five schools. You need 250 to 300 000 kuna for one... Therefore, you with this can do two to three schools. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I accept that the Alliance of Disabilities could have made that network, but according to this dynamic as you predict the funds of 700,000 kuna, it will be almost around 2086. I think it's sad to re-negotiate those we should take special care of. We need to give up a new car in government offices and a new car in every ministry, and for that new car we're going to build an elevator or a scalpel in one of the schools. So you're reducing this item to 700,000 kuna. I suggest we increase it to a million and 400 which is once again far less than what it takes to do but it's much more and it's a different trend. It is unacceptable to buy new cars, and to reduce the funds for school adjustment in Croatia, to be adapted to all students or persons with disabilities. I will also demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2743	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't make it. He didn't get the necessary majority. 243rd Amendment of Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2744	I welcome you, Mr. President. This amendment cannot be accepted, however, which is the fact that A5 7900 is in position, this position has made many teachers happy, professors, because they have been provided with pay money in such a way that, in addition to regular wage growth of 6%, what has been going on for everyone in the public sector since the start of the eighth month, it has been an additional 2.1%. For example, this year's cumulative increase compared to last year is 17%, and in four years it will still look 61%, and for this, it will be provided with 4.1 billion kuna. What does that mean in real life? This means that one teacher who has about four or five thousand kunas today will be somewhere around 7.5 thousand kuna. One teacher at the university of 6 and a half thousand kuna will be around 10 and a half thousand kuna, and for 2008, sufficient funds have been provided with an increase of 2% starting in August this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2745	Thank you. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2746	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. I'm glad you've at least cheered up some educators, but I'd like you to cheer them up a little bit more. That's why I proposed this amendment because I think it's an injustice that forty thousand people who are employed in the primary school system have about 12, 13% less wages on average than everyone in the public administration. This means that every 8 months, people who work in education earn one salary less than the others who work in the state administration, and that's why this amendment of mine at least reduces that injustice a little bit, and I want to put it to a vote to make these people a little bit more happy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2747	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 244th Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2748	The amendment cannot be accepted. In 2001, the law clearly states that responsibility for capital investment in education is transferred to founders and cities. I will specifically say that in Varazdin County for capital investment, 10 million kuna was obtained and, of course, most of these projects came from a public private partnership and surprised me that not all schools like those listed are covered by this project. I also have to admit that I'm surprised, if it's a project for everything then it's for everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2749	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2750	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, it is already common knowledge that one of the fundamental commitment... and the Varazdin County is creating conditions for increasing the level of knowledge. [[You don't understand.]] The Varazdin County made one step here, an innovative step and built a total of 23 schools on its own, built and built 13 sports halls, totaled 350 million in two years without kuna from the state budget. It is known that the government has reduced its potential to build remaining schools, which are the 6,7 schools we have put on, on which we have put the amendment. So we only have two options. The identification of the Varazdin County is not disputed, or may the Government allow the construction of the construction through the public private partnership of the Varazdin County, but by the basis of a law which has reduced the potential by means of a regulation or we expect the help of the ministry, I think it would be correct in view of those expenditures made by the Varazdin County. And Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, since these are the same amendments, is the same issue, Amendment 244, 246, 247, 248, 249 and 273 suggest a united vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2751	We haven't heard, if you can just repeat it, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2752	Since the same story, 244, 246, 247, 248, 249 and 273 is a united vote, and I also count on the minister's promise that these projects will be implemented with the help of the ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2753	...well understood you're withdrawing those amendments?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2754	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2755	Thank you very much. This amendment has been withdrawn. 245 amendments by Mr. Ante Kotromanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2756	Mr. President, for legal reasons, we cannot accept this amendment, but Sinju is helping in various ways and definitely one of them is, since the law makes it very clear that capital investments go through decentralisation. We have increased the amount of Split-Dalmatia County to nearly 24 million kuna and of course we are making as much as we can because there is no doubt about the justification of this project.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2757	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ante Kotromanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2758	Mr. Minister, you know that this hall is now already being built, done previous documentation, building permit issued, I don't know what the county can do through these decentralised funds, these are terribly small funds. Split-Dalmatia County is a huge one county, I am not sure it will be separated and one kuna up for Sinj. I'm very sad, I'm very sorry that this amendment has not been accepted. I think that, and you're a athlete, to understand the situation up there, there are over 60 thousand people up there. It's a hall in a miserable state, devastated, nothing. At least I'd ask a friend of Nick Rebic if he understood the situation, he's down from an area of the Cetina region. I don't know what to do. I'm really sad. This is some kind of mild punishment to me I think down in the Cetina region and I hope that in due course, you'll do something down there. You must understand the situation in Sinj. I'm asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2759	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 246 has been withdrawn. Amendment 247 has been withdrawn. Amendment 248 has been withdrawn. Amendment 249 also withdrawn. Amendment of 250 MPs to Ante Kotromanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2760	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This amendment concerns Sinja and I want to publicly say here that this government, my ministry, gives maximum support to Sinju, and this is exactly one of those, I will explain it in less than a minute. It is a project that is extremely important for the "Fra Pavle Vuskovica" elementary school, a project that we started in the ministry together with the town in partnership, no matter who is in power, because our children's interest is above all interests, students. And we managed to secure the money through the KP79037 capital project. She started making project documentation, which is the most important substitute for returned church property and we will follow this project to the end and it is a very clear message.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2761	Thank you. Mr. Representative Kotromanović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2762	I thank the minister. Can I just know how much, the funds are approved, complete funds down for primary school.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2763	By dynamics, how's it going?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2764	It'll go gradually in a few years, won't it?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2765	That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2766	I'm withdrawing this amendment then.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2767	This amendment has been withdrawn. Thank you very much. 251 representatives of Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2768	This amendment, Mr. President, cannot be accepted. It's a matter of fact, I'm sad to have to repeat, but it's a law passed in 2001, a law on education that says very clearly who is in charge of capital investment. There is no doubt that the investments of this type are justified and what I can say is that the separation for the Koprivnica-Kristevnica County in which in 2007 there were around 6.9 million kunas we will raise as much as we can and try to help you make decisions and in some other way finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2769	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2770	Well, since I've given more of these amendments then we'll talk today. So if the law is bad, it needs to be changed. If you think it wasn't good from 2001, you need to change it, because let's not call it 2001. We have already changed the Law on Government twice in this assembly, so in 14 days we change one and the same law, right? And as for this next one, I have made an amendment to increase decentralised funds, Minister Schuker said he can't. You will propose to the government minimum standards for primary education, you will propose them at the level of last year. Put all these funds into decentralised funds and there won't be any problem, there won't be any of these amendments. But you can't increase our decentralised assets by 3% and expect us to solve all those investments that need to be solved. I will visit you to the EIB2 no schools in Koprivnica and Križevci County have been built in the past 30 years with money from the state budget, all submitted to the budget of municipalities, cities and counties. So we're just asking to be even with others, because we're also taxpayers that we single out into the state budget. You know that the most beautiful school in Croatia, the "Fran Galović" High School, was built according to the model of public private partnership, I also expect the answer to be followed in this country. Because if you can give money to the halls built by public private partnership, the least I expect from you is to give us 50% of the money for that school, or we will say that we are more important sports halls than the high school, and you have the opportunity to see now in the press that "Fran Galović" High School in Koprivnica is declared by the profession the most beautiful school in Croatia, one of the biggest challenges of architecture in Croatia from the beginning of this century, and I expect you to reward us for that, and not to punish us in a way that you explain to us that we can still do everything on our own.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2771	Thank you very much. Who's for the amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2772	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2773	And he's pulling. I'm sorry. This amendment has been withdrawn. We're going to 252, MPs Daniel MondEkar and Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2774	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This amendment cannot be accepted for exactly the same reasons as the previous and unfortunately most others and I agree, we must consider what we will do about the 2001 law all together. But what I want to say in this place, this government has been able to build 288 schools in the last four years, or to upgrade or school facilities, which is the most I've ever known in this area. I want to say one more thing that I also think is important to say. We're going to go to phase two with the World Bank. Let's show wisdom as we have done for these 73 facilities that lift three shifts, go the same way with these schools that obviously can't even make local municipalities through decentralised funds, and neither does the government have powers.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2775	Mr. Representative Daniel Mondekar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2776	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. Your Honor, I was angry that you crossed me, changed my sex, but in short, about this. As you know, the regional school in the Czech village is a deroute building which is actually an assembly building inappropriate for teaching, and unfortunately it is necessary to overload the primary school "Mate Lovrak" in Petrinja. Project documentation was made in 2006 and 2007, it takes 3.8 million kuna to build a building without furniture and without doactic equipment. I'm asking you to vote on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2777	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Representatives Daniel Mondekar and Dragica Zgrebec, 253rd Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2778	This amendment cannot be accepted, but I want to say one fence. Namely, the 73 buildings that the government and the profession have accepted for the first time in these areas have abolished three shifts in the Republic of Croatia. I see that there is one issue about this amendment and I want to say that our services have established that the school does not work in three shifts and that is why it is not within that investment. Here my present secretary of state and assistants, if necessary, will once again make an evaluation, there are some border information and, of course, within the second task it is our priority to abolish three shifts, we will act according to what our common goal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but also our professions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2779	Mr. Daniel Mondekar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2780	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. Well, the problem with Popovachi is that apart from primary school, there are five district schools. You know that. Almost 750 students are going to the home institution, 260 in the area. I specifically asked to check the figures and almost another 100th had to go to Kutina for school. The construction of a new school was supported by the government of the Republic of Croatia on 26 October 2006. So this former current government has supported that a new school in Popovachi must be built and I call on the majority to vote now for the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2781	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 254. Representatives Sonja Šimunović and Igor Dragovan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2782	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This amendment cannot be accepted, but the good news is that this project is already being financed from the loan of the European Investment Bank, and this is also being financed through the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, which is then probably a misunderstanding because these projects are being financed at the moment by 109 schools and halls, and only in the area of the Brod-Posavina County of this project we finance 13 schools and halls. The value of this project is about 5 million kunas, so the funds are projected, it goes on normal.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2783	Thank you. Ms. Representative Sonja Simunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2784	Dear Minister. Yes, it's funded, but unfortunately still in the school yard of that school there are no construction works. It's an area school in a village near the boat,... And that's where the kids go to school from first to fourth grade. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There is no gym, and the home school in three villages next door takes place in three shifts, teaching takes place in three shifts. I don't know where there was a misunderstanding, but these students still don't have the conditions of attending classes appropriate to the prescribed standard for primary schooling. The whole project has prepared all the documentation and please vote for the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2785	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The same representatives of Amendment 255. Sonja Simunović and Igor Dragovan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2786	Thank you very much, Mr. President. ... accept this amendment for the same reasons as the Law on Education 2001 and our legal powers. [[Because of the announcement, the speaker does not understand.]] I can't add anything else because we just don't have a mechanism to finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2787	Thank you. Ms. Representative Sonja Simunović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2788	Dear Minister. So it's the same story again. It seems to repeat itself on many occasions. This is also about regional school, specifically in the town of Slavonski Brod. Let me just describe the situation a little bit. There's a class going on at home school, there's two buildings in question, one building was injured in an earthquake in '45. For years, it was planned to collapse even... Excuse me. [[The speaker is not enabled, it is not understood.]] He also hasn't built a sports hall. The township has had fewer procedures to maintain the same, there is also... [[The speaker is not enabled, it is not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2789	Someone's shutting down Mrs. MPs' microphone. Just watch out for a little bit. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2790	I also ask that the amendment be voted upon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2791	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 256. The same representatives Sonja Šimunović and Igor Dragovan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2792	This amendment cannot be accepted for reasons that have already become a burden on all of us, and if we agree that it will be different, the law since 2001 says very clearly that we do not have the authority to finance this project.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2793	Mrs. Simunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2794	If only I could repeat myself in one sentence. ... Upgrades to the school building and sports hall there are all important documentation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Please vote for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2795	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 257 IDS reps club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2796	This amendment cannot be accepted in that part of it, as regards equipment, yes, but for the same reasons in 2001, the law cannot be built. And so it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2797	Thank you. On behalf of IDS Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2798	Your Honor, Mr. Minister! So far it's invested in that school." Grief" 12 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I am 100% in the amount of the city of Buzete and the County of Istria. Now, as a result of these unforeseeable ex-post, complementary works, another item of 3 and a half million kuna opened. Now you don't need to finance the equipment. You can also finance the completion of these construction works. And then go out and meet that unit of local administration, self-government, and help her finish the building by the end of the 9th month and get the kids back to their school that's at this point in the adaptation phase and is expected to be over by the end of the 8th month or what I know, there's summer break. All in the city of Buzet with relatively modest budget options, these funds are significant. And if the state doesn't jump in, there's no one down the county. But I call you once again, you don't have to finance or co-finance equipment, finance construction work.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2799	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 258. The IDS representative club also. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2800	We don't accept the amendment for similar reasons. It's about the upgrade, the arrangement of the school kitchen. So the law says very clearly, we can equip but we can't build. And we'll get the equipment of course when the stage comes.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2801	Thank you. Mr. Brkaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2802	We would ask that this amendment be voted upon. Investment in the primary school or the arrangement of the school kitchen is being made by the town of Novigrad. Here 500 thousand kunas are requested to complete the very adaptation or arrangement. And please vote on the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2803	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. The amendment didn't go through, he didn't get the required majority. 259th of the same club IDS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2804	This amendment cannot be accepted in this form. The main reason is because this project is already being financed. So the investment comes from the European Investment Bank project. And what is very important to say, in the field of Istrian County according to this project we are investing already in five schools and halls. And maybe just one note, that it's just as important to invest in school facilities as it is in school halls. This is our comment because at the beginning of the term of office only 30% of schools had a hall. So we'll go parallel and that's why these projects will have absolute priority and support.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2805	Thank you. On behalf of the club, Mr. Brkaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2806	Here, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. We would insist on voting. It is about building a school sports hall in Karoja, one of the municipalities that has the lowest income per, budget per capita. So, a community that really cannot finance the construction of the school hall itself from its budget. We ask that the amount of 4000 kuna be approved through the state budget. And we suggest we vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2807	But we're funding. We're already funding it today. She's already going.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2808	Four million.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2809	The whole amount.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2810	Okay. We're withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2811	Are you pulling or are we going to vote? ... Please! ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The amendment has been withdrawn. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] 260. IDS agent club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2812	Thank you very much. The amendment cannot be accepted because of our inability to directly finance this project, but the equipment yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2813	Thank you. Mr. Brkaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2814	Okay. This argument is the same. Mr. President, Mr. Minister! It is the municipality of Kršan, the sports hall, the value of the total investment is 16 million kuna. The co-financing of 50%, 8 million kunas in... So, in the area of the entire municipality of Kršan there is no sports hall for the needs of all children of primary schools, but also for other activities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2815	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 261st same club, IDS.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2816	Here, I must say the amendment in this form cannot accept an esteemed Mr. Representative and Club for the same reason as the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2817	Thank you. Mr. Miletić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2818	This amendment was submitted in terms of co-financing of the construction of the elementary school hall "Stoja" in Pula. The truth, though, is that this hall has already been built, but there have also been a lot of gaps in the construction itself, or unforeseen costs, so that we have the case of the hall that was built for a year, and it cannot be allowed to be used, precisely for the reason that the stated investment led only by the ministry. We therefore ask that the ministry accept the co-financing of a part of the difference in costs that were unforeseeable and which were not contracted. I ask that he declare this amendment by voting.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2819	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 262. Same club IDS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2820	Thank you very much. We do not accept this amendment, but what is very significant and visible in the position K733045 is visible that the overall programme is already included in the capital investment. And as far as the details are concerned, at this point, it's just that the assessment of this project is about 70 million kuna. And we're looking for the participation of Rovinj and Istria County. And that is what talks are already being held about which I am convinced that very soon they will be very positive over this part with which the government is participating.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2821	Thank you. Mr. Damir Cain on behalf of you, or which one of you?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2822	Like this, I'm familiar with these conversations. It is my fault, too, that this amendment is not answered by Minister Shuker, but must be answered by Minister Primorac. The whole of Croatia knows that because of the change in the Tax on Profits Act, let's say the City of Zagreb lost 200 million kuna. However, on the other hand...... And more or less, it doesn't matter. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] However, no one knows that Rovinj loses more than 25% of its fiscal capacity because of this law and that it is an absolute loser in Croatia. After him is Zagreb, after him How much is that? [[/Intruder: How much is that?]] That's 40 million somewhere, Mr. Jambo. It's not a little bit. For one local self-government, it's a significant asset. And right behind him is the total loss of the County of Istria. Now, it was promised that no one would lose anything and that those cities that are the losers of the states from their fiscal capacity would compensate for "that loss" through the construction of a school, a hall and so on. Since the law has been in force for almost two years. Last year, the town of Rovinj did not get a drop on that basis. This year we want to believe that everything will not stop at this amount of one million kuna and we will hold you to Mr. Minister's word that in these talks with the mayor, you will find a modus to help the city of Rovinj. For them, it doesn't matter if it's 40 or 70 million kuna for that hall or school, but at this point it's a significant money. It's not a small amount of money for the town of Rovinj. And we're withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2823	Thank you. This amendment has been withdrawn. 263rd Amendment to the IDS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2824	This amendment in this form cannot be accepted for a very simple reason. The project is already being financed from the loan of the European Investment Bank, but one way I want to support what Minister Schuker said earlier. It is true, you have said well what is happening to Rovinj, but it is also true that this very difference is being compensated from this project and at this moment in the Istrian County of EIB2 the project is building five schools and halls today and it is very important data.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2825	Thank you. On behalf of the club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2826	Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the Parliament. Let's cut this afternoon's session short. We propose a united vote for amendments 263, 264, 265, 266, 267, 268, 269 and 270, and 271 and 274. Here are the signs for a sports hall in Medulin, for a sports hall in Novigrad, sports center Vodnjan, city stadium in Pula, sports hall in St. Vincent, primary school in Pula, construction of Veli Vrh elementary school in Pula and high school... Italian high school and the construction of a sports-school hall in Rovinj, as well as Murterski škoji primary school, "Vladimir Nazor" Vrsar. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2827	So, if I understand from 264 to 273 it is a single vote, or 274 where it is said about the reconstruction of the sports hall in Vrsar, right? So, for all these amendments, we vote. Who is it for these amendments that I've listed and which Mr. Cain listed? Thank you. They didn't get the necessary majority. 272. Representatives Nenad Stazić, Milanka Opačić, Josip Leko and Bruno Kurelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2828	Mr. President, we cannot accept this amendment in this form. The explanation is very simple. We cannot finance what is the task of local self-government. It's about the needs of kindergarten. But what we did before, we built a school, so she moved out, and that space remained available to kindergarten, and now it needs to be arranged and equipped.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2829	Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2830	Excuse me, Minister, you were very quiet. I didn't hear an explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2831	Excuse me, I'll make it a little louder. So we can't accept this amendment, but what we've done is we've built an object in which the school in existence moved out and that entire space has remained at the disposal of kindergarten. And of course, we don't have a legal basis to build that kindergarten now because it's within the legal powers of local self-government. So, with all my good will, what I'd like is that we don't have a legal basis.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2832	Now, Minister, I'm sorry I ever heard this argument and I begged you to repeat it. What's the problem? The Municipality of Kamanja is a small municipality, has no kindergarten. Children go 11 kilometers to kindergarten in... It has excellent local self-government, money from the EU's accession funds, and they've done a lot. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So they've got this old school, they'd have a kindergarten in it. I can't do that. The municipality doesn't have enough money. They have no way to ensure that their children do not go 20 miles [11 km] away in kindergarten. They also have a building permit, they did everything. They need financial help, not them, these kids need financial help. And now you claim that the government has no opportunity to help the children in Kamanja. Well, that's really better if we didn't hear it in an explanation. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2833	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 275th Amendment of Representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2834	Thank you very much. The amendment cannot be accepted. Of course, it's always the subject of debate whether sufficient resources are involved in equipment and equipment with cabinet-based didactic equipment. The difference that an esteemed representative is looking for is indeed a million-and-a-half kuna, so it's not important and I would say justifiable, but at this point I want to say that we have provided 16.3 million kuna for more than 500 schools in 2007 but I also want to say that in 2008 it was provided for all primary or secondary schools with a caucus didactic information equipment worth more than 100 million kuna, meaning for 2008. Now that's on a few lines and my Stipe Mamic, my assistant will try to show it to you. So that's me thinking of three or four different items, more than 100 million kunas.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2835	Thank you. Mrs. Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2836	Dear Minister, it reminds me of a tree not being seen from the forest. Here we are only discussing the equipment of primary schools with cabinet and doactic equipment. I trust you when you add up both medium and high, etc. that it can be such a sum. However, the fact remains that you reduce by a million and a half thousand kuna compared to last year's budget funds for equipping schools with cabinet and didactic equipment. I don't know, when you usually visit schools, then schools usually get a lot of work done, so it's a loan to make it look a little better because the minister's still coming to school. However, the reality of our schools is, for example, one of my colleagues, actually a very good friend working in a school where there is no chalk, no boards, no door in her classroom, no elementary school. By the way, it's about the elementary school in Dugi Selo that works on four shifts that we've talked about several times. And that's also the reality of a number of our schools. In that situation, we really shouldn't cut resources for school equipment. We are awaiting the adoption of a new national curricula, which I hope will move towards more work, that it will be more based on the teaching directed towards the students. The requirements and the equipment of the school will be significantly greater, significantly more significant. Those drafts on the other hand that we had pedagogical standards in the last term, which I hope we will adopt in the first quarter as it says in the government's work programme. True, we only have nine working days left for the Parliament, so I hope you'll hurry up and demand increased investment. And you're proposing a budget reduction, so I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2837	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 276th amendment of Mr. Zvonimir Mrsic's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2838	I'll be brief, Mr. President. We can't accept it for the reason of the 2001 School Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2839	Thank you. Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2840	Well, I have to express my regret. Unfortunately, we were the only county that didn't enter the C5 program. We were the only county that didn't get anything from the World Bank loan. But now we've grabbed something small in EIB2. But EIB2 doesn't allow sports halls to be built. EIB2 allows only to co-finance part of the building of school spaces. Since there are a large number of small schools in the municipalities, in my county that have no sports hall and which because of the budget they have in the municipalities and the county are unable to build a hall, because the halls are expensive. Yes, the halls are much more expensive than this. I asked for a certain amount of funds that would be pooled with the municipalities and would team up with the county and manage to get rid of those dozens of halls in the county area to build those schools next to those halls. I will accept that you do not have the authority, but you have the authority to raise the minimum standard and in this minimum standard increase the funds for investment. Unfortunately, by decentralisation last year, local self-government, and in particular the one in the area of Koprivnica-križevci County, because the economy was above average, is effective at losing. We stayed with less tax money than the county would have if it were old law. So that the state, which you are, the ministers didn't take two billion kunas to local self-government, we could have built a bunch of schools. But obviously you can't build a hall unless it's for the world championship. We're looking here to build halls, so in the area of Koprivnica-Crysing County for children who won't even have a ticket to go to the World Cup. I will give up this amendment. And I call on you when you work with your colleague Mamic to certainly triple the funding for investments in the area of Koprivnica-Kristevnica County for decentralised funds because you have the power to do so and it is within the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2841	Thank you. This amendment has been withdrawn. The 277th same representative, Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2842	We cannot accept this amendment, Mr. Representative, for the same reason as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2843	Mr. Lobster. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2844	Well, I don't know if that's wise for you. So it's about the school in Subotica. It's a Subotica in the Rasinj municipality. The president of the HSS and your important coalition partner went to that school. I don't know if it would be wise to find some money to build that school, for a coalition contract, to build that school. The county has launched a project documentation and I think it would be good to help. It is the municipality of Rasinj, which has a territory larger than the town of Koprivnica, which has 27 settlements. So, one huge community with a small budget where there's a lot of schools. So one of these is this school in Subotica. Otherwise, we'll get to the point where the people of Subotica will start moving towards Koprivnica, and I don't think that's our goal especially if we want to have rural development. Therefore, I would ask that this amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2845	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 278th representative of Zvonimir Mršić as well. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2846	This amendment cannot be accepted. I don't know who went to this school, Mr. Representative, but we'll follow the law. That's the best explanation I can tell you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2847	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2848	Unfortunately, no one goes to this school anymore because we moved the children to Koprivnica and Sokolovac municipality lost one of its district schools. But I appeal to you again. So, okay. You cannot accept the amendment, but you can increase the decentralised funds for investment to the town of Koprivnica for the amount of funds that will return a small school to a hilly area where teachers and schools will be able to return and return to that area. And not to let that part of Sokolovac municipality be relaxed and that the inhabitants move either to Sokolovac or Koprivnica. I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2849	Thank you. This amendment has been withdrawn. 279th Representatives Tanja Vrbac and Dino Kozlevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2850	Thank you very much. The amendment in this form cannot be accepted, but I would like to say that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the personal prime minister, has made a decision to allocate a million kunas from the funds of the current reserve, the finance minister, to draw up the project documentation and to build the school in question. The law made it very clear what was going on with the resolution after the police eyewitness and the damage found that this facility would ultimately be due to the interests of children because it is necessary and necessary to build it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2851	Thank you. Mr. Coslevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2852	I'm withdrawing the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2853	Thank you. The amendment has been withdrawn. Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić, 280th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2854	This amendment cannot be accepted. But the news is good. This project is funded through C5 of the project and from the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure of the Republic of Croatia. I would just like to point out that Dubrovnik-Neretva County, which is extremely successful in the implementation of these projects, is being financed today by 11 schools and halls, and throughout the Republic of Croatia 142.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2855	Thank you. Mrs. Bonačić-Simac Tatjana.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2856	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, Vela Luka is going to Velalučka's children and on their behalf I have to say the chronology of their actually coming to their primary school. Namely, the project of building an elementary school and sports hall was launched in 2002. The financing of the project was of course to be resolved through the mentioned you said now C5. The municipality bought some 11 and a half thousand squares, arranged the municipal infrastructure, spent three million kunas. In the meantime, a double permit was issued for both the sports hall and the school. A competition has been opened, performers have been selected. After that, however, it was annulled and the school did not continue to build. The hall was built in 2007. But now what condition do we have? We have an old school building built in 1911. It cannot satisfy any shift work that is naturally recommended. We have a sports hall, but that gym is about two kilometers away from school. Therefore, such a situation that is certainly required for both the country of knowledge and for the purpose of a shift of work, in fact, to vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2857	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 281 MP Dragica Zgrebec and Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2858	The amendment is not accepted in this form, but the fact is that this project is funded through the European Investment Bank and through the competent ministry. Otherwise the total program that is in the area of Međimurje County where the school in question is located at the moment is investing in six schools and halls. So this project is funded by a decision that exists.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2859	Thank you. Mrs. Zgrebec, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2860	Thank you, Mr. President. If I understand correctly in St. George's on Breg, it goes into realisation in 2008. You can hardly hear the ministers when you speak. We can't hear you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2861	This project is therefore financed from the loan of the European Investment Bank.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2862	So 2008 goes into...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2863	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2864	Well, I'm glad that, because this is the fifth time I've given the same amendment to the budget by believing in the government's written promise in 2003 that it will be financed entirely by the sports hall. And if this is true, I have to trust the Minister that he will go into realisation, so I will withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2865	Thank you. The amendment has been withdrawn. 282 same MPs, Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec and Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2866	Thank you very much. This amendment is not accepted for the reason we talked about it many times, which is the existing 2001 law that speaks of capital investments and restrictions on our own.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2867	Mrs. Nadica Jelash, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2868	Mr. Minister, I was actually expecting your answer like this, but I must say, I am very disappointed with him. Why did my colleague and I propose this amendment? Because of the total number of students in the Pribislavec elementary school, 50% is a student of Roma nationality, and you must agree with me that education is actually the most effective way to introduce that population into the world of work and socialization. So the municipality of Pribislavec and Međimurje County are willing to allocate some of the funds needed to implement this project from their budgets, but of course these funds are not enough and state aid was expected. That's why I'm asking for this amendment to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2869	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Same MPs, Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec and Nadia Jelash 283.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2870	This amendment cannot be accepted because the project is financed. So the funding goes and it goes from the European Investment Bank... project, he as such is run by the competent ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2871	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2872	This answer pleases me and I thank and withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2873	The amendment has been withdrawn. The 284th Amendment of MPs also Dragica Zgrebec and Nadica Jelas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2874	This amendment is refuted unfortunately for reasons I cannot enter, but it is very clear that the law of 2001 determines.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2875	Mrs. Dear Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2876	The amendment refers to the Centre for the Education and Education of Children with Disabilities in Development. It's been functioning for almost 40 years. Of the total number of children attending this primary education, 31% of the Roma population are also. But he is in the city area and would belong to the financing of the town of Čakovec, but there are children from the entire county, it is difficult from the municipality with a minimum budget, especially the county that receives decentralised funds for secondary schooling other than the town of Čakovec, to allocate funds for that. More and more children are attending this school, so the spaces are too small to think about and change the location, so a whole new school needs to be built for which big money needs to be allocated. If this is not possible in this budget, I urge it to be in the following budgets and m akar and from credit funds such as other schools are financed. Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2877	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 285 same MPs, Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec and Nadica Jelas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2878	The amendment cannot be accepted as to the sports hall in Čakovec for the same reason as the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2879	Thank you. We vote. Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 286 of the same representative, Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec and Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2880	This amendment of esteemed MPs Zgrebec and Jelash cannot be accepted for reasons unfortunately as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2881	Mrs. Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2882	I'll say a few words here anyway. In fact, the village Kušanec was predominantly inhabited by the Roma population. Over 60% of children leave this school for children of the Roma population. The town of Čakovec just so that children can successfully attend primary school and get involved right from the first grade, there is also funding two years of preschool education for those children so that they can normally follow the course in Croatian language. The city was financed entirely a few years ago by the upgrade and adaptation of the existing school building, so we expect some money to be allocated to the hall from the state budget precisely because it is mainly the school of the children of the national minority. Since there are no sports facilities nearby, it is also the only way these children could be fully attending that part of the school course, as well as the extracurricular activities related to sports activities. Please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2883	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 287 of the same representative, Dragica Zgrebec and Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2884	We can't accept it for reasons like it was in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2885	Mrs. Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2886	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, I still have something to say for this amendment of ours. Namely, she would ask for a vote on him for the simple reason that Strahoninec elementary school is a large school, attended by 360 students, and the teaching of body culture takes place in the hall of school. So in completely inappropriate conditions. And that's what I want to point out, projects have been made for the hall, a local permit has been issued, and here I am calling for some money to be secured in the state budget for the construction of that hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2887	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 288 of the same representative, Mrs. Zgrebec and Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2888	Thank you very much. The amendment cannot be accepted. But what's good, which is more than obvious, besides these 288 built objects from this government in the last four years, I see that... practically all units of local self-government and together we'll find some way to do it, but again, because of the law, we don't have the authority to finance this project at this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2889	Thank you very much. Mrs. Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2890	Thank you very much. There's obviously so many times today that this law will need to be changed. Just a few details. Goric elementary school is also a large school, 350 pupils are, the physical education programme takes place in classrooms. The municipality of Gorica has funded the construction of a project documentation and is expected to issue a building permit. I ask that this amendment be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2891	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 289 Mrs. Representative Dragica Zgrebec and Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2892	Thank you very much. This amendment cannot be accepted. It's a very simple reason again. This project is financed from the loan of the Bank of the Council of Europe or C5. It's an elementary school sports hall in Shtrigovo.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2893	Thank you. Mrs. Dear Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2894	This hall is not built, this hall is finished. It financed from CEBA5 under the 2003 contract to the value of the works was 8 million and 902 thousand kuna. It was fully funded through this programme, however, when it was opened in summer 2005 it was not completed and now there are 814 thousand kuna missing to bring the project to an end. So it's some kind of long budget since 2005. I ask you to review this contract on construction, number 47 of 2003, and you will see that there are approximately 814 thousand kunas missing that should ensure that the project is brought to an end, and at the same time I appeal to Minister Shuker that, if it is not possible from the budget stock, the funds are allocated and that the facility is finally brought to the point. He practically doesn't have a valid license, and for three years now, the students have been in the gym. I'm asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2895	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 290th Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2896	Thank you very much. This amendment is not accepted, again for reasons that are good, we can't because we're already funding the same C5 project. I just want to say once again that at this point in the area of Osijek-Baranja County, which is very important data from, and there is the school in question, we finance exactly 9 schools and halls, and in the Republic of Croatia from this project a total of 142 buildings, school facilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2897	Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2898	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, the fact is that this basic school construction program has entered the C5 program, but I would also like to see this full report on the implementation of the C5 programme. Before that, this elementary school was in program C3. After the amendments were adopted there in 2003, it was transferred to the C5 programme. He bought the city. A tender under the programme was opened afterwards, however, while this HDZB was not created, a meeting was held in the Djakovici Selci group at which it was present. I'd like to finish up a little bit. Where Mr. Željir Janjic was present, the secretary of state and where the locals sought to build not a reconstruction of the existing building of the elementary school that was city property, but the construction of a sports hall and the construction of a completely new school. The work to build a primary school from the program where the company "Builter", or "Zuber" from Osijek, was cut off in the name of the penalty for the interrupted works, raised about a million and 800 thousand kuna precisely from that programme C5. I'd ask you to check all of what I've said since there are elements here and certain to say so in criminal proceedings. In that program, you tell your story, I tell your story. Since the company was not the most favourable in the competition, the city did not call the competition, but someone else did. The sports hall in that program isn't. I would ask that, with this construction, a new elementary school be placed on the construction of a sports hall, since the land is secured, since the city built a house. Mr. Mlinarich, I'll listen to you if you have an amendment and you let me go. There's a president who'll warn me in time, not you. I'd like to ask you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2899	Finish your coworker.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2900	Just talk to whoever you want, I got it. I would ask you, Mr. Minister, to reconnaissance, that is, to make a full report regarding this hall, and I would especially like to see representatives from the Osijek-Baranja County vote. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2901	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you very much. He didn't pass, he didn't get the necessary majority. 291st representative Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go. Here you go, Minister, 291.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2902	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This amendment cannot be accepted, but I want to say, I hope the information that will encourage us all and cheer us up, which is that for... The education and training of students with developmental difficulties is subject to significant means, I repeat again, in cooperation with the Croatian Federation of Body Disabilities Associations. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]] In 2007, we realised around 2 million kunas, 2 million additional funds were provided for by local self-government. We have our own project that we're proud of together, a school without architectural barriers. We will not stop and calm down until the last school in the Republic of Croatia is available to children who, otherwise, cannot reach these schools and the question of education of students with developmental difficulties is one of the civilizational issues and we do it really as much as we can, but again, always in cooperation with the Croatian Association of Physical Disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2903	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2904	Minister, your words are completely contrary to the article. So, you are again raising and training students with developmental difficulties from 2007, which is 700 thousand kuna. That's less than the value of a new ministry minister's car. It is a total item of your ministry of education and education for students with developmental difficulties. If it's true that local self-government stands out 2 million, then it's sad that the ministry can't at least give a kuna to those children. And I think you need to intervene yourself in some way and fight here. It is a matter of your honor and a question of the ministry's relationship with children that we need to take special care of, for children with developmental difficulties. So we can talk about the state of knowledge, about high school for everyone, about school like this, about shifts, about anything. If we have an item of 700 thousand kuna that applies to children with developmental difficulties, then I think all of this is falling into the water. And I think that on those two, three items, on the architectural barriers, things are pictured on this, that there is not one systematic policy that would allow equal chances for your children in Croatia to have education. This item speaks of equal chances for children with developmental difficulties to gain the knowledge they can accept. To be integrated, for example, into crafts schools, to become assistant chefs, assistant waiters, and then some of them can get a job according to their abilities and to feel useful in this community. And it's really sad that this item is only 700 thousand kuna. Your credibility is in this power. I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2905	Thank you. The amendment has been withdrawn. 292th Amendment of Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2906	Thank you very much. We do not accept the amendment in this form. The idea as such is good and the ministry does a lot. I'll tell you just a few details for your information. At this point there are about 20,000 computers in all Croatian schools. You saw from this data that more than 100 million kuna was intended in 2008 to restore and increase the number of computers. We released about 600,000 e-mail addresses for every student in the Republic of Croatia. Access to CAR NET is secured. And it's always a matter of individual approach, of course. What we're doing right now, we're doing as a system. I am pleased that here is my secretary of state who can testify that what we do about informing Croatia gives one special place as well as through computer education. To this day, about 10,000 teachers have received... A degree, teachers who didn't get a chance to do that before. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I think about information never enough but you believe me this is already up to the limit itself that it's maximum.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2907	Mr. Representative Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2908	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister! This way, the purpose of this amendment is to raise one level of information in Croatia, not only in schools, although you have now said how many computers in schools, but I must warn you that 75% of these school accounts are already obsolete, because it is, being renewed but not fast enough. And these are the computers of older generations of Pentium I, II, so it has to be done faster. They're not adequate resources in schools. And as far as this amendment is concerned, it is one aid for socially weaker, weaker status for students, because we have to reach one standard that has long been in the European Union, that every student has a computer at home, not only at school but also at home, but at primary school. So this is one amendment going that way. I would ask that this be put to the vote and that my HDZ colleagues support this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2909	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 293th Amendment of Agent Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2910	Thank you very much. This amendment cannot be accepted in this form for the reasons set out in the 2001 law. If any other forms of funding or an increase in decentralisation occur, as this is about Vukovar, the ministry will consider it very much, but of course such a proposal should be systematic, it should also come. I think Mr. Mlinarić can confirm how much has been done in terms of primary schooling but also in part of high school in Vukovar over the last four years.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2911	Thank you. Mr. Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2912	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. I am surprised by this response, given that in 2005 your representatives, from your ministry, local self-government, the regional self-government was all agreed upon. It has been said that this is a necessary need, since you already know this better than I do, about 500 students in the area of economic, commercial, administrative profession. Since the school has passed a certain path since moving out of the current university through separate locations and now in a temporary inadequate space of the former primary school, construction of a new school has been agreed, a location has been chosen in the Olajnica village. Well, I'd say every once in a while one of the local and regional self-government gentlemen is going to tour the location, promise to leave soon. I'm surprised that at least in this budget it's not meant to start with such an initiative. I would ask you to vote for this amendment for the children of Vukovar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2913	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 294th representative of Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2914	That's what I have to tell him. He knows all this perfectly well, so I'm surprised he doesn't raise his hand.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2915	Gold, 294. Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2916	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This amendment cannot be accepted. Namely, it's clear to explain. In 2002 and 2003, the reconstruction of school equipment was completed, worth 12 million kuna. And that's the main reason. And of course there is always a need for a possible upgrade, but at this point, the situation is very clear about the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2917	Thank you. Mr. Zlatko Koračević. He's gone. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. In 295, also Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2918	Thank you very much. We don't accept the amendment. You also know very clearly that from the 2006 and 2007 budget, the school was reconstructed and adapted to the building in question and that was then around 2.4 million kuna. And the students were already in the facility or medical school moved out of the Urshulin monastery, which was returned to the Catholic Church. So, all citizens have given full support to this project that has been done on our part to the greatest extent possible to be realized.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2919	Thank you. There's no Mr. Representative. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 296 Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2920	Thank you very much. This amendment in this form cannot be accepted. The next three amendments are Mr. Mršić. I can only say the following is that Koprivnica-križevci County is from the funds of our capital investment sufficient to provide 6.8 million kuna. 2008 goes that way the same way. You're familiar with all the models, and you know what the legal basis is, and for all three points, I'm going to have the same answer for all three amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2921	Thank you. Mr. Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2922	So I'd like to say here that 10 million kuna is wanted to build a student home in Koprivnica. Banal is the reason. So, the minister said that in the project "High School for All!" All high school kids have free school transportation and all high school kids have a free dormitory. It's simply inaccessible in Koprivnica. There's no dormitory in Koprivnica. Someone's got to build it. Therefore, if we want Koprivnica to be a high school for everyone and that students can have a free dormitory, one who declares it must invest in it. With 6.8 million kunas as much as you predict for next year for Koprivnica-Kryzevnica County, there will be no sports halls, let alone to build a student home in Koprivnica, let alone to build a secondary school, let alone to build a secondary school, etc. I ask that we vote on this and become aware that there is no realisation of the project "Medium School for All!"can't be a free dormitory 'cause there's no dormitory. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2923	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. He explained Minister 297, 298, 299. Would you like to comment?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2924	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2925	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2926	The same thing is with 297. So, building up a student home in the Križevci. Fortunately there is a dormitory there, however, it is in such a state that it is practically and almost unconditional for the housing of students and students of the High School of Economics in Križevci. I think you should also allocate certain funds. The county will single out but can't single out the county because the law your government passed and the ruling majority in Koprivnica-Kryzevac County reduced income from tax base last year. If you hadn't done this, the Koprivnica-Kristevnica County could have built a dormitory in both Koprivnica and Križevci, but you can't say on the one hand that the law is like that, on the other hand take our money and on the third hand tie our hands and transfer responsibility to local self-government. I think the ministry is equally responsible for the state of education in every unit of local self-government and if some unit of local self-government with a huge will that is invested cannot meet the standard that is then you need to find a way to achieve it. I'm withdrawing that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2927	Thank you. This amendment has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2928	And I'd like to say something about 298.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2929	298 Mršić?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2930	So here I also don't understand one thing. Deputy Prime Minister Polancec, who was second on the list in my election unit, did not go very well, spoke out loudly that he guaranteed that the craftsman's school in Koprivnica would be built out of the state budget. Now, I don't know if he didn't know that there was a 2001 law or that he promised something, I don't use that word by my colleague Matušić, or he promised something he was sure he couldn't do. On the other hand, you know that we had a three-way course in Koprivnica, that three secondary schools went to the same facility and that the city and the county together went to a public private partnership project, we created the most beautiful school currently in Croatia. ... We can talk about that, buddy. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So we made the most beautiful school, a much cheaper school than all the halls built by HDZ with their partners and from a school, for example, in Bjelovar, which has been built for seven years and has not yet been completed, and ours has been ready for a year to go on one shift. But there's still a problem with crafts school. It wasn't me who promised to build a crafts school from the state budget, it was HDZ. Therefore, it would be okay to put HDZ into the state budget now. And I'm going to beg to vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2931	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić 299th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2932	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This amendment is not accepted for reasons that will be acceptable to you too, the reason that it is good because through the school building programme financed by the joint funds of the state budget and the World Bank this project is financed in the amount of kuna 18 million. But what is good, it is good to say and important to say that this project provides for the financing of three primary schools and two secondary schools totalling 37 million kuna and then the area of Koprivnica-Kryzeva County will not exist any schools that will work in three shifts. And it's not a matter of politics at all, it's a question of children's interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2933	Thank you. Mr. Lobster. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2934	Well, I don't think it's about this school, it's about high school, but I'm pulling the amendment anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2935	The amendment has been withdrawn. Representatives of Tanja Vrbat, Dino Kozlevac, 300th Amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2936	Thank you very much. The amendment cannot be accepted for reasons that we later instructed and concerning the limitations of law and schooling from 2001.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2937	Mr. Coslevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2938	I ask to vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2939	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. The amendment didn't go through, he didn't get the required majority. 301st Amendment Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2940	The amendment cannot be accepted, but I have news that will really encourage all of us who have been waiting so long for our last government over four years and the previous one, and it concerns investments in Belarus. We've created preconditions, established a public institution that is currently starting with project documentation. But let me say a few words from 2007. The government has invested 12.2 million kunas in accordance with the promise and expanded the ski course, completed the project documentation and exit of the building permit for construction and sports halls and swimming pools and the entire system of snowing the track.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2941	Thank you. Mr. Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2942	Thank you very much. Minister, what you just said is part of the things that were introduced last year but this project has been standing for too long. The project has been standing for almost nine years as an idea and several projects have already been made in the last four years. All documentation is already available to build both halls and swimming pools, and to cover the ski resort on Bjellolasica and the Croatian Olympic Centre Bjelolasica is an object of special importance for our country by the Law on Sports defined. On the other hand, we don't have, I'm not going to talk about it now that it's a standard that almost all European countries have that there's an object of such a type where our athletes will be able to prepare and not go to preparations outside of Croatia, but there is one logical thing. So, we built this facility four, five years ago, or when you took over power in 2004, there was already money in the budget proposed to build this facility, so you removed it from the budget. There was a government guarantee back then that you also put out of force. We'd already have the facility ready and we wouldn't invest for four or five years every year at 8, 10, 12 million like you said last year in a cold drive. So we've already lost 40 million kunas this four years because it wasn't in time that what could have already been done. On the other hand, you as a minister, and not just you, but there were three other ministers in the commission who have been in the commission for four years to complete the project, and he has not done it. Minister Schuker, you and Minister Vukelic. So I don't know what it takes anymore to finish this project and finally get off the dead end as far as Whitelight is concerned. And I'm sorry, I'm asking to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2943	Thank you. Do you have anything to add or shall we vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2944	If you'll allow me exactly what you said. Lately, in the last month before HDZ's government came security funds. But the paperwork and everything wasn't ready to start building. And everyone who's on Whitelight knows that.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2945	Can I replicate?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2946	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Representative. If the minister could get two words, so could you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2947	Thank you very much. There's something I know about this problem because I worked there five years ago. So I know that the projects have been completed, that we have been assured in the Government that it has already started to implement part of the loan from the Zagreb Bank, partly through the budget. So the projects were there. They've now been modified over the years. It's not the same story since four years ago, but there were projects back then that could have been realized. Unfortunately, the situation was clear. The then government came with a guarantee, the new government took it down and that's why it didn't do the job. I'm not telling you this so I can object to you now. I'm only telling you this because I want you to finish this story. For five years, you've been waiting inexplicably. From the budget, 40 million kunas were given in those five years, and if these facilities were built they could probably function for themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2948	Thank you. Maybe at one point I thought it wasn't a miracle, so the government changed its mind. But here it is. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić Amendment 302.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2949	Thank you very much. We do not accept the amendment, but what is common to Mršić, Mršić, the Croatian Government and I, as well as to this project, are giving him maximum support. You know it best. Before we were 500,000 kunas for youth sports games in... It wasn't systematic, nor did the Sports Authority systematically isolate it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that, among other things, and the head of this project is constantly outlining through the media and we both know it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2950	Thank you. Mr. Representative Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2951	So it's about sports games of young people from Split. I'm here every time I ask that something be set aside for the Split games, because I think it's a great idea to use sports to fight drugs. But I also think that in addition to the strain on how much will be obtained each year from the budget and really support the government on this and many other sports workers of the youth sports game deserve their budget item that Maric and the people who are trying so hard to do so do not have to worry about whether and when and how much money they will get. I think after six years of really doing it successfully organize over the summer to tens of thousands of children to spend their free time in the air usefully, actively, instead of being closed and ultimately to have this finale happen in Split. I think youth sports games deserve an item. You promised me last time you'd do it. No, here I have to say that my colleagues, since I'm working with them, have been complaining that they're having a hard time getting to what's in the budget, so I'm asking you to put on a special item of the youth sports game next year and to know exactly how much it is, and that they know in advance what they can count on. I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2952	Thank you. This amendment has been withdrawn. 303rd Amendment by Ms. Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2953	Thank you very much. This amendment is withdrawn, not accepted in this form, sorry. But a request for the work and program of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development, led by Mr. Professor Pero Lucin. I mean, the foundation works great. The Foundation has different forms of how it is financed everywhere in the world from the state budget, but also from other funds. Among other things, economic operators and donations. What is very important to say is that this foundation participates in several projects directly with the ministry. One of them is the return of scientists where 62 of the most excellent returns are funded by various projects and what we are stimulating throughout the foundation to be more intense spending of money because the foundation has very rigorous criteria and it has far more capital than is spent. But you're absolutely right that no matter how much money is put into the trust, it's justified and it's very effective. I agree with you here.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2954	Mrs. Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2955	But, Your Honor, if I'm right, why don't you accept the amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2956	They need to spend more money, faster, faster.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2957	Despite the legal obligation in 2006 and 2007, there was no singlement in this item, so in this section there was a high education for the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development. Now you predict to single out five million kunas. I'll warn you that by 2003, we've singled out 11 million kunas which was far less, or at least it was going to fill that treasured purpose of 50 million kunas as far as is somehow minimal. Reports on the work of the National Foundation come to us every year here in the Croatian Parliament. At that time, we can hear from both sides of the assembly almost a very eloquent appeal to the Government to increase the separation because the head of the foundation, Professor Lucin, and according to all those reports there are, there are also the chairman of the Committee on Education of the Parliament and all the members and members. Since then, we've been discussing how insufficient funds are. You agree that these funds Mr. President of the Parliament, I'd just like to ask you to let me finish mine so Mr. Minister doesn't interrupt me. [[/Intruder Primorac: They do not have 100 million kunas on their accounts. 100 million kunas have on account today.]] Thank you. [[Intruder Primorac: Excuse me.]] So we have here in Parliament this year's report. I really don't understand if the foundation is calling for funds to be increased, if the MPs here in the debates from year to year...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2958	Please allow Mrs. Representative to finish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2959	If the MPs... /The speaker went off and turned it back on./... Your Honor, Mr. President, this glare and the microphone switch-off obviously shows that I'm right, so please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2960	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 304th Amendment of Mr. Representative Gordan Flag. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2961	Thank you very much. This amendment shall be rejected with a similar explanation. There is now a new action plan that will stimulate even greater isolation, including for the foundation and from economic operators.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2962	It's nice to say not to accept but to refuse. Here you go, Mr. Flego.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2963	I am actually sorry and cannot understand the logic where the work of the foundation is praised and accepted on the one hand, and on the other hand it is granted a minimum amount of funds. For example, 56 million kuna was invested in the foundation in 2002. Under the law of the foundation, only 50% of the funds she received and the trust is all the time on the verge of existence, or functionality, and we, Mr. President, have recently come from a meeting with the President of the Danish Parliament where the entire board, or all the members present, assured him that we are working hard at approaching European standards, but we are also trying to do so with practice. The National Foundation for Science is one of the serious efforts that only organised scientists freely and responsibly manage the appropriate means and that the state gives them that. With 11 million kunas you know how much you can do in high education science, so I would ask that these funds increase, and if you do not accept the amendment in this form, tell me in which form, so I will reform it. Please vote, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2964	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 305 representatives of Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2965	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. It is known to all that regular students in the Republic of Croatia have the right to a subsidy for food and accommodation, but according to the law, the student centre can be the founder only a university that Koprivnica does not have at this time. A very logical and simple explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2966	Thank you. Mr. Lobster.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2967	So if you saw further, I suggested in the next amendment 308 that a university be established in Koprivnica and that a campus be built in Koprivnica, yes. So when I'm going to propose a law on the establishment of a university in Koprivnica, then you're going to say that the law cannot be passed because there is no budget item. We can't go in circles. I have proposed the minimum funds of a million kuna for a student centre, a million kuna for the university and for the campus 5 million kuna because, the military is empty, the grass is already here, we could place students there, and there are now over a thousand students who are regularly studying in Koprivnica. Therefore, if we want to build a Croatian Harvard which is our intention in Koprivnica, then we need to open an item in order to do so. Here are not serious and significant items that burden the budget financially, but are items that open up the possibility of doing so this year. Have you changed your mind?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2968	I can see it's quiet on both sides. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 306 MP Zlatko Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2969	Thank you very much. In this form, the amendment cannot be accepted. The means to encourage building facilities... standards are provided within the activities of the university. Capital investment in all of Croatia goes that way, cooperation with the university we have is excellent. At this point, more than 3 million kunas are in circulation and I ask nicely that the university make that decision autonomously, not that politics or any other purpose that the university will do.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2970	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zlatko Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2971	Mr. President. Mr. Minister, of course I can't accept this argument. I thanked you personally and the Ministry for what you did to build a student home last week, but at the time I said that this whole story and this project were not finished without a student restaurant, so I ask you that in that sense we have a vision because 5 thousand students in the town of Varazdin deserve to have such a beautiful home that they have their own student restaurant. Please vote on that amendment after all.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2972	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Ms. Representative Marija Lugarić 307 amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2973	Thank you very much. This amendment is not accepted, but I would like to say that in 2007, the budget amounted to 60 million kuna per student standard, now increased by 35% or 21 million kuna. The numbers speak for themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2974	Thank you. Mrs. Marija Lugaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2975	Sir, the fact that the budget is increased is not in any way something that is extra... in the whole story but simply necessity. The state audit report warned you that you had to increase the funds because you were under-planning them, so you accidentally spent them, and that's what we discussed last week. So I propose to increase, i.e. return to the amount we already had in the 2003 state budget, the funding for student standard improvement programmes. This should be accepted for at least two reasons. One is the one that I have already said, so from that item, you have unwittingly drawn the funds you needed and directed to other positions that you did not plan enough for, as set out in the State Audit report, and is one of the reasons why your ministry just got a conditional opinion when it was audited. And the second reason is that the funds for student associations and programmes and scholarships are now in the university's budgets, are no longer as specific items for two years and therefore we need to return these funds to what it was like to repeat, avoid the unintended spending of funds on two basiss. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2976	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić 308 amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2977	We do not accept this amendment, but I do ask nicely, Mr. Representative, when you propose this amendment just to look at the legal basis for the establishment of the university. The law says very clearly. You must have space, personnel and study programs. There is a National Council for Higher Education, a parliamentary body completely autonomously and it makes suggestions on whether you meet these conditions. So the ministry doesn't. If you meet these conditions, thank God, the law is very clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2978	Thank you. Mr. Representative Mršić, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2979	I didn't understand you now. If we meet these conditions, then you will give consent to start a university.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2980	That's what the law tells you very clearly. You're far from it today.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2981	Don't worry, then we'll meet again here in the Parliament, and then you'll say there's no item in the budget. Leave that item at the University of Koprivnica 1 Kuna, there is no need to be a million kuna just to have an item, and you let us get the staff and the space and the programs and write it all down and solve the rest of the procedure. But you put it there, so we can hit on one kuna. It won't destroy you in the ministry, so let's put that university in Koprivnica one kuna. Can you do that?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2982	Ask Mr. Flag if he agrees, and I'll agree. Ask him if it's legally possible to tell you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2983	My colleague Flego agrees.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2984	It'll be hard for you to agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2985	Then how about that one kuna?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2986	Thank you. It's a non-parnick settlement, but it's out of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2987	I'd like to ask you to vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2988	Thank you very much. Here's the vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 309 Amendments to the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2989	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. It is clear what the Croatian government has done for the University of Pula. I want to point out in 2007 an investment close to 9 million kuna, by defining the next steps the university along with the ministry will provide funding for this project, but it is also important to say that the funds have been increased compared to last year by 20%.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2990	Mr. Representative Brkaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2991	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. It is clear to me that in view of the Government, it does not accept this amendment that this amendment will experience the fate of these other 307 amendments, but I will say one thing. I believe it's the Ministry's fault. The student standard in this year compared to 2007 was reduced by 2 and a half million kuna and I would pray if at least that part could be corrected and also reduced by energy. The index is 24. So they're down 76% of those points. Given that you will not accept this amendment, I will withdraw this amendment, but I certainly insist that until the vote on the budget this part is checked, given that we have been informed by universities that the student standard has been reduced by 2 and a half million kuna compared to 2007 and energy by 76%, which is certainly unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2992	This amendment has been withdrawn. 310. IDS counseling club, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2993	I want to tell you at the beginning that this amendment cannot be accepted, but in terms of truth, an increase of 20%, look at all the items and they will see you because the University of Pula is the same priority for us as all Croatian other universities. If you look at the EIB 2 Croatian Government has secured reconstruction and adaptation of the student home and restaurant. So this is an additional 20% increase compared to last year. Maybe you didn't look at all the items.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2994	Thank you. Mr. Representative Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2995	I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2996	Thank you. The amendment has been withdrawn. Representative Marija Lugarić 311. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2997	Thank you very much. It's a scientific research item, a scientific research item, and I want to tell you in this form we can't accept it, but it's a lot of common touch points. Namely, when you look at the separation that the ministry has increased nearly 20 million kuna budget compared to 2007, but if you look at the increase that is currently around 14.7% that activities are being financed from the Croatian Institute of Technology "Bicro", but from the money that we very often ignore, which is the sixth framework programme because Croatian scientists have withdrawn 3.2m euros from payments, then we come to the data that today Croatian science has available, believe it or not, 300m kuna, whether it is the sixth framework programme, technological projects or scientific projects, which is up to 15 times more than ever Croatian science had.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2998	Thank you. Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u2999	Mr. Minister, it wouldn't be more than it's ever been, although these are your arguments that this is compared to 2007, I don't know how much more accurate. However, it is also true that, in the 2004 budget, you have significantly reduced these funds. I ask by my amendment that we just go back to where we were in 2003 or less. For that item in 2003, 185 million 449 thousand and 600 kuna were foreseen. In fact, we come often in a very absurd situation, which is that your ministry approves projects and approves, all reviews go through, projects get approved, and then deliver 25 or 30 or 40% of the funds they need to go into the project at all. I mean, you know as well as I do that. On the other hand, if we were to go a little bit more rational in some way and more fundamentally to finance projects so that they would not be part of a social category like those universities, then we could really do a lot more. I know that you and your team at the ministry know that this isn't enough resources and that we need to increase them, especially if we want to go to the knowledge society, to knowledge-based technologies, but that's what we're going to come up with in some other amendments. I don't know, I know it's hard for you to fight in the government and with Minister Shuker for that increase, but somewhere then you should at least accept these allies from the opposition, where I have been submitting these amendments for years, so please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3000	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Representative Ms. Marija Lugarić 312.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3001	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We can't accept this amendment, but please look at three items, all three items, so I don't say I don't bother parliamentary representatives with numbers. The first talks about scholarships and scientific training after graduates, the second talks about scholarships and technical cooperation, which is in Dr. Fuksa, and for the third time in this way on support for master's, PhD and doctoral scholarships, past those who are regularly in the constitution of education. So three brand-new items and I think they'll be enough this way for 2008, and we'll see.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3002	Thank you. Mrs. Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3003	Dear Minister, they're not exactly new, but we're not talking about it right now, we're talking about one and it's a very specific one called scholarship and scientific training after graduates. I don't know if you're aware, but for that scholarship after graduates, you're giving out a third less funds than you've predicted to arrange your own ministry building. You've got $5 million here after the diplomat, and for your department building and all of your department buildings, you've got 8 million. Now if the knowledge society and the state of knowledge were to arrange the ministry building, then I would withdraw the amendment, but that's not why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3004	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric, 313th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3005	Thank you very much. This amendment cannot be accepted, but I accept the suggestion of a respected representative colleague that the location of the ministry in three places, and so does fellow Flego and two other, three agencies in six places are unacceptable and I will do everything I can to unite it in that place, but it will require more than 8 million kuna, but it will be easier for all of us to work. However, what is significant for this amendment, I think it is very important to say that the amount you are asking for from 26 to 34 million kunas we have exceeded, because at this point from the STT projects or projects of the World Bank we provide 52 million kunas in 2008, but in different places. I will be very happy to sit down with you and show you where those items are, because they concern Bicroa and Hit and Ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3006	Thank you. Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3007	Well, respected ministers, as you accept mine, in a way you suggest to me, then I'd like to suggest to you as an advocate that you then write your budget a little more transparently as many other ministries where some things are a lot more, and not with you it's all kind of broken, so we have to... in that budget, but it seems a lot more to me that it's actually some kind of cloudy water where it can be explained anyway, not the way it's supposed to be. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3008	No, we have all the glass, the code is glass, not blurry.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3009	I'd like to ask Mr. President if you'd really suggest a minister not to interrupt.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3010	Thank you. Please finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3011	So here I propose and demand an increase for projects and programmes of technological research and development activities. Since these funds no matter what you talk about in the state budget in position A676005 per year are constantly shrinking. We're in 2004 there are 37 million kunas, and now we've come to 26. You're talking about a knowledge society, you're talking about a state of knowledge, you're talking about a knowledge-based economy. I mean, it's not, it's not, it's just not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, So please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3012	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the votes he needed. The same representative, Mrs. Marija Lugaric, is also 314. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3013	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In this form we cannot accept. However, it is very important to say again, we have several projects that are moving I must say and she government before our government means five years ago she launched one of these projects, but three, four major projects we launched. They concern TEHCRO, CONCRO and all of those projects that bring new values to the knowledge capital market from the so-called Risk capital, benchmark capital, from the economy, from money based on initial institutions within the university, from institutions that are today at Ruđer Boskovic and other places. And again, it's not easy to look at but you have five or six independent items. Look at them and you'll see that we're meeting what you're proposing today. Already today.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3014	Thank you. Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3015	Dear Minister! You said the third or fourth time in a row that you couldn't accept the amendment in this form. I'm interested in what form you can accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3016	We'll sit down and talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3017	I'm asking for a new position to be added to the state budgets we've had, which you've thrown out. We had both this micro and tecro and all these possible variations, so all these programs. But we also had the position of developing new products of technology that in close cooperation, similar items existed in the positions of the Ministry of Economy which were in some way united items that aimed at this rapid transfer to the economy, so to speak from science to technology. I ask that we simply return to the budget the item we had and that we do not now have. No matter what you say, we don't have those items anymore. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3018	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 315. Ms. Representative Marija Lugarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3019	Thank you very much. How we cannot accept this amendment, however, the answer to your question. As knowledge, technology is changed, budget items are also changed in a way that is acceptable to everyone. You have three locations in this amendment. And those items give more than 12 million kunas from about 9.5 you're looking for, but in different positions. I'll leave this note for you so you can take a look after my presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3020	Thank you. Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3021	You say respected ministers that how technology and knowledge are changed and items in the budget to be acceptable to everyone. Well, they're not acceptable to everyone. I personally don't find it acceptable and a large number of MPs because reducing resources for these essential things in science, in technologies that make this important knowledge society somewhere, I don't think it's acceptable. I know it's hard for you to raise funds for your ministry is less than an increase for agriculture. There may be somewhere, this one is hiding, that code that would be acceptable to everyone related to the coalition. But it's simply not acceptable for me to reduce funding for scholarships and technical cooperation. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3022	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 316th Amendment of Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3023	Thank you very much. The amendment cannot be accepted. The answer is exactly the same as I gave my colleague Lugarić earlier, and it concerns three budget items that clearly define scholarships, scientific training of graduates, scholarships and technical cooperation, master's degree, PhD and scholarships. All this is in a budget that has been increased to supplement my colleague by a record 51% or with a loan debt of almost a billion euros over the last four and a half years.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3024	Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3025	So, in public knowledge, we should create all the assumptions that we can really build infrastructure for above all higher education. You've recently been on Croatian TV. You said there'd be 35,000 students on campus in Borongai over the years, and it's no problem building buildings, it's no problem building a campus, but it's a problem creating human resources. Now all those items you're talking about aren't increased in this year's budget. So this is an item called a scholarship to postgraduate, doctoral and post-doctoral studies. This is an item that directly creates future professors at the university or in higher education. You take it off from three and a half million you take off at 3 million 160 thousand kuna. What did it take so terribly for the government to take $400,000 in scholarships to doctoral studies and that he couldn't put it here? It would be convincing that we really advocate the development of higher education, that this and all the other items you're talking about are increased by 100%, because 3 and a half million kunas are not something to scholarship a postgraduate doctoral study. It should be more significant because we don't want to enroll any new students today, but we're missing a huge number of teachers at the university to satisfy the Bologna Process. But the tendency is to reduce the rate for doctoral, post-doctoral and postgraduate studies. It's completely inconclusive regardless of what you're listing the other items. Other items of scholarship are also reduced compared to last year. So totally unconvincing. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3026	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 317. Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3027	Thank you very much. I gave you an indirect but direct answer before. But let me just briefly mention the number of 7,000, exactly the number of 7,000 employees of higher education people. Out of 2 thousand 700 scientific recruits in total in the Republic of Croatia, this government has hired a thousand and 700. And they're people. The same thing that goes towards doctoral studies, their legal obligation is six years. So, fellow Mršić, more items should be watched. And within these 7 grand are you... Excuse me, Mrs. Lugaric. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's right. Here, that's my short answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3028	Thank you. Mrs. Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3029	So, Your Honors Minister, I propose, by my amendment, that we return the grant funds for postgraduate doctoral and post-doctoral studies to that amount of funds we had last year. No more, no less. In your budget, you propose to reduce these funds. Disperse with large numbers... Which are 118 positions, so what we should do now is add up, in some ways doesn't explain the fact and those appeals of our younger scientists and people who want to go especially to "postdoc" or "during" programs somewhere abroad, we had very moving TV shows on the subject that we understand each other, because people simply can't get scholarships. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3030	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 318th Representative Marija Lugarić also. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3031	Thank you very much. The amendment cannot be accepted. The funds for the project "Croatian literacy path to the desired future" until 2012 are planned for both secondary and secondary education. Otherwise, looking at the budget of the Agency for Adult Education, the agencies we set up with that intention have increased by 156% compared to last year. ... Yes, but she had initial funds, this year she has nearly 6 million kuna and 6 million kuna is large for adult education alongside the administration led by State Secretary Janjic. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3032	Thank you. Mrs. Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3033	Honorable Minister, at the beginning of only one dyspression. The name of the Agency for Adult Education is a little, not a little bit, but really out of date. I mean, everywhere in the world, there's been talk of lifelong learning, and I think it would be better if we changed it to the Lifelong Learning Agency. In this amendment, we are talking about the need to add a new item called primary education and training of young people and adults. Namely, we do not have the exact data but somewhere 40 per cent of Croatian citizens and citizens who have only primary school or do not have primary school are hiding tens of thousands of our citizens who do not have finished primary school. In order to complete primary school, those courses must be paid mostly at open universities or elsewhere. For example, we were not punished here in the Assembly, but those who are currently, these are junior minors and senior minors who are at the Turopolje Breeding Institute who have complained that they simply do not have the financial means to pay for the completion of primary school. So the purpose of this item is to introduce an item that would help co-finance our citizens who have not completed their primary school to finish this primary school. I don't even have to mention that it's mostly about people without education who work in low-paid jobs and who are really paying a lot of money for several thousand kunas to get a certificate of a finished elementary school. So please accept this amendment, if not in this budget, in the next one. There is a good trend in your ministry that you accept these amendments with a year's delay in the next budgets because that's the item we've already had, so you've pushed it somewhere, and it's really necessary. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3034	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 319. Ms. Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3035	Thank you very much. This amendment cannot be accepted because if you look at the education needs of teachers and teachers in human rights and civil education except through regular teaching you will find at least seven items and seven places including multilateral scientific projects, NGOs, different support for these projects where you will see educational and technical cooperation. For example, the financing of expert gatherings on the Holocaust where Croatia becomes one of the regional leaders and the fact that our experts already educate other surrounding experts in other countries, the years of citizenship, the Council of Europe go to "Jad Vashem" every year, so more than enough money and programmes for what we consider as one of the priorities of Croatian society.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3036	Thank you. Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3037	Dear Ministers, here we are talking about the education and education for human rights by ordinary teachers in their daily work in schools according to the human rights education programme that is somewhere in our curriculum and program is positioned anyway. That it's being processed everywhere in practice means it's not being processed anywhere. I think in our country we need to strengthen human rights education more if we know a specific number. We, for human rights education, single out no more than 278,000 kuna. Not a million kunas, not 500 grand, but 278,000 kuna. I therefore propose, with this amendment, that we return these funds to the level we had in 2003 when 700 thousand kuna was planned for that item. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3038	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? The amendment didn't go through, he didn't get the required majority. 320th Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3039	Thank you very much. The amendment cannot be accepted but in accordance with the National Policy for the Promotion of Gender Equality, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports is funding the implementation of certain measures that are in our jurisdiction, such as Chapter 30, even through A768012 even through sport. And what I'm trying to say is that one big piece of work, we get fifteen to twenty projects that come through non-governmental organisations' programmes of extremely intense, burning projects that support other work in the government and our ministry. And that's what we do about these programs.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3040	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3041	Mr. Minister, when you take the National Policy to promote gender equality, and when you see which were specific tasks, or were not, but are scheduled for the ministry to do this year, then these 100,000 kunas that I propose to introduce as an item in your ministry are far too small. When I talk about what should have been done, I will only start from the database on existing colleges of women's studies and studies "Roda" at higher schools, on the introduction of special programmes with women's study content in pre-graduate, graduate vocational studies and postgraduate studies. Then, institutionalising women's studies at pre-graduate, graduate and postgraduate level, or for example, one task for which indeed these 100,000 kunas are absolutely too small is to establish a department or centre at the Institute of Social Research to conduct research analyses for government needs, etc. among which is actually the holder of the Chief Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. So, Mr. Minister, you'll agree after what I said about these 100,000 kunas being absolutely too small. And speaking of sports, I don't know why you mention the word "even for sport." I think it's very necessary. I just wouldn't want it to happen like last year if I wasn't wrong when we removed those 100,000 kunas in budget rebalancing because it turns out we didn't spend them. I'm asking the vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3042	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. The amendment didn't go through. I thank the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3043	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We're record-writers every year. Thank you for your attention and for everything, more than almost 100 amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3044	The 321st Amendment of the Croatian School Office submitted by Mrs Gordana Sobol has been withdrawn. Ministry of Tourism Mr. Secretary of State Branko Grgic. Here you go. 322nd Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3045	Honored Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives. The amendment is not accepted in accordance with the evaluations for the implementation of the tourism incentive programme, an incentive for success in 2008 planned 77 million kuna. That amount is sufficient for the regular implementation of the interest subsidy programme for the construction of small and medium-sized family hotels and pensions and any increase would mean an unrealistic increase and would remain neutral in the budgetary position.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3046	Thank you. Mr. Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3047	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. I have proposed this amendment according to an ambition from the government's programme to create 500 new small hotels in the next period with no idea how many, 5,000 jobs I think it was written in the government's programme. And another thing that was very important, which is 50,000 new beds in the high category of tourism. These funds you planned for the entire tourism ministry are small and insufficient to do so. I see that there are two main items. One is this program of incentives for success, the other is for the promotion of Croatia and the purpose of this amendment is to enable you in some way as many incentives as possible, i.e. these subsidies for these small hotels in order to make it easier to implement the programme. And that's why I'm asking for this amendment to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3048	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the votes he needed. 323rd Representative Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3049	The amendment is not accepted. Encouraging rural tourism positions 1551 cultural, traditional, natural heritage amounting to 5 and a half million kuna. 10% increased compared to the previous year, and as part of the actions to encourage thematic tourist routes, the production of original souvenirs significantly contributes to the development of tourism in underdeveloped tourist areas especially on the continent.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3050	Mr. Representative Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3051	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State. Cultural traditional and natural heritage is certainly a significant factor in the development of tourism and I am very pleased that these funds are in the budget. However, I think that the incentives could be greater precisely because both cultural and traditional and natural heritage in Slavonia and Baranja should be highlighted even more, as this results in a greater visit to tourists. From year to year of the event such as "Djakovci vesti", Osijek Summer, Olympics of old sports, natural heritage “Kopački rit” or traditional such as, which are presented to tourists such as harvest celebrations continue to increase and allow tourists to arrive. And that is why I believe that these funds should be even more available to increase the number of tourists. In order to confirm this in some way, I recommend that you look at the HNK in Osijek for the 100th anniversary performed “Slavon rapsodija”, a musical that was adapted by Mario Mihaljevic, which is related to the text of his and the music of the late father where it is seen as rural, how people in the country think about their and cultural and tradition and natural traditions, and how to present them to foreign tourists. I think it's such a good example if you look at it to probably accept this kind of development of rural tourism. Thank you. I'd like a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3052	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Representatives Dino Kozlevac and Tanja Vrbat 324. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3053	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. In 2008, as part of the programme of restoration of valorisation, revitalisation, cultural, traditional natural heritage, the Ministry will call for public access to the programme and will select projects that will be financially supported on the basis of established criteria.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3054	Thank you. Mr. Coslevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3055	So here's two words. It is an object that has cultural meaning, or one that remains fortunately preserved in the original form where olives have been processed throughout generations. It is one of the strongest parts of Istria's county by olivery and oliver tradition, where it is situated in the city of Bujam which also has limited opportunities. Thus, valorisation of such an object in terms of cultural traditions would be extremely useful and would be difficult to ensure without the help of the state and the level of the ministry. Respecting what you said about the procedure being called and the city of Buje being able to report that way, I would still like us to vote on the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3056	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 325. IDS agent club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3057	The amendment is not accepted. The explanation is similar to that in the previous amendment, which is that in 2008, the ministry will call for the programme to be joined in 2008 as part of a programme of reconstruction, valorisation, revitalisation, cultural, traditional and natural heritage, as a new tourist product, on the basis of established criteria, to select projects to be financially supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3058	Thank you. IDS representative club Mr. Brkarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3059	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. We would essentially suggest that the united vote for amendments 325 to 330, since it is the projects of the Eco Park of Vizinada, the museum of olive groves, what the representative of Kozlevac, the rural hotel Zavrje, the winery museum in Poreč, the museum of Tartupharism and the bull center said. We believe in what you said will be able to run these projects through a public call and will be participated, i.e. that the ministry will participate in their co-financing.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3060	Thank you very much. Let the Secretary of State plead for all these amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3061	Well, that's fine. The reasons are identical because it is done that we will launch a public call for the accession of the programme on the basis of established criteria to choose projects that will be financially supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3062	Thank you. We're voting for the amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3063	By 350, by 330, it can be voted unitedly for all amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3064	We vote for all amendments from 325 to 330. Who's in favor of these amendments? Thank you. They weren't accepted. Not enough votes to get. 331st Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3065	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. In order to implement national policy to promote gender equality, the ministry does not require funds in a special position, but activities in its implementation will be financed under the overall programme of the ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3066	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3067	So here I have been persistent since the morning trying to warn that national policy to promote gender equality is something that should be a special item in every ministry. Since you, as a new ministry, will actually need to appoint coordinators or co-ordinators for gender equality, in some ways these 100,000 kunas would be a starting point, a basis for national policy implementation, and I ask the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3068	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you, Secretary of State. Ministry of Health and Social Care, Minister Darko Milinovic. 332 representatives of Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3069	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted because the funds for the construction of the Centre for Social Care are not foreseen in the World Bank's first loan at the position of the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3070	Thank you. Mr. Gristle : Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3071	Maybe there's something wrong here. So the funds for the Social Care Centre in Koprivnica are provided in the World Bank's loan for the county and city centre, and the Social Care Centre in Križevci was built, built by the company "Worknik", was built according to the project, or according to the criteria of the Ministry of Health and Social Care and should be bought and paid last year. So it won't be, it's not about building, it's about buying some finished space. So there's something wrong with that. So, I think it's been messed up by the Hive and the Crosses, huh? It's not built in the Križevci, but the Križevci buys ready-made space and waits for the contract to be concluded and it was before the contract was concluded at the end of last year. I'll withdraw the amendment, but I don't think you're right. Thank you. The amendment has been withdrawn. 333 amendments to Ms. Brankica Crlenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3073	The amendment shall not be accepted in this financial year because the necessary advances guaranteeing the real justification for inclusion have not been carried out.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3074	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Blackie.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3075	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, I would just briefly repeat that Sibenik's Centre for Social Care is actually doing a very responsible and difficult job in spatially inadequate conditions. I can accept your argument that no preparatory stages have been carried out, and I believe that you will agree with me that it is urgent to carry out the preparatory phase for the construction of a new centre, and that is to begin with the city of Sibenik to find adequate building land and give it to the Ministry of Health and Social Care. I'm withdrawing my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3076	Thank you. The amendment has been withdrawn. 334 Mr. Representative Sima Lučina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3077	The amendment shall not be accepted for the same reasons as the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3078	Here you go, Mr. Shime Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3079	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, about a third year, I get the same answer, so I don't know, okay. If local self-government isn't ready to solve a problem, I expected the ministry to encourage them. I especially expect that now that it's your constituency I was hoping you'd be a little more sensitive and you'd push that whole story a little bit. But I still ask the vote for the record.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3080	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment of Madam Representative Vesna Škulić 335. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3081	The amendment is not accepted because the reduction in the amount of one-off money in the 2008 state budget is due to changes in legislation and the restructuring of cash compensation and assistance in the social care system and is tailored to the estimated needs.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3082	Thank you very much. Madam Representative Škulić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3083	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, if I'm not mistaken, your ministry bears the name of the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare. Unfortunately, I don't see anyone in social care again, and it seems to me that in the welfare system absolutely no one cares, if you worry then it's in a very bad way. You have given me a wonderful explanation that I can accept or not accept, it can be good or not, but the fact is that since 2003 people who receive are, therefore, the poorest of the poorest receive 400 kunas of one-time cash aid or for which they swear more. I think it would be good for you to call yourself in this case in 2001, 2002 and 2003, as Mr. Primorac called before you. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3084	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 336 amendments by Ms. Vesna Škulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3085	The amendment is not accepted because the reduction in the amount in the personal disability position is due to the adjustment of the estimated real needs based on the implementation of the previous periods.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3086	Mrs. Representative Vesna Škulić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3087	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister again, of course I can't agree with you. Personal disability has not increased since 2000 and amounts to 1,000 kuna. So this is 2008 if I'm not wrong, and people who can't afford to live alone must live on a thousand kunas of monthly compensation. However, there is one catch on the 22nd floor to connect personal disability to GDP. You say that GDP has grown these years, but personal disability has not increased all these years. Unfortunately, now I'm going to be a little morbid. Personal disabled people will only be able to achieve this year if someone else dies because there is no increase in the budget. So we have to wait for the person with, one person to die so that another person can exercise his right. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3088	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 337 Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3089	The amendment is not accepted because the necessary advances guaranteeing the real justification for inclusion have not been made.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3090	Thank you. Mr. Representative Mršić, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3091	I could be an extremely rude minister this time. So on 20 June 2006, the government decided in Koprivnica that by 2009 it would correct the House for Children "Sprivnica" in Koprivnica and physically return the home to the church. I'm asking you now who's responsible for what these kids are going to end up on the street for Christmas this year? If someone hasn't done the preparations, and I've been making amendments since then, until now, always on budget and budget rebalance, and I've always been told it will be, will be, will be. Today we are in a situation that eight months before the children were to empty that home, you are telling me that the government was so irresponsible that it did nothing at all to build a new home. If it wasn't... Don't play with those buttons, let go. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] So this is extremely irresponsible from the government and the government will have to tell those children and will have to tell the people of Koprivnica why it makes decisions that it is not able to implement alone, but it will also have to find a solution to what will happen to those children after the new year. Because according to her decision and under the contract she signed with the church, in 1.1.2009, those children could no longer be in the House of Resurrection, and there was plenty of time to do so and to accept my amendment and to have that home built by now. I'm asking for a vote on this, and I'm going to ask for the responsibility of whoever was so irresponsible that he throws his children on the street without proper family care.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3092	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3093	Although my colleague Polancec said it would be built.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3094	What? 338th Amendment of Mr. Representative Sima Lučina.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3095	The amendment shall not be accepted in this financial year because the necessary advances guaranteeing a real justification for inclusion have not been carried out. It is under way to resolve property issues, which is a prerequisite for entering this investment, after which the ministry will develop a project and join the construction of a new home.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3096	Thank you. Mr. Representative Sima Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3097	No, no, Minister, six years ago, a move-in project was launched. At the time, everyone was interested in the church, the citizens, the local administration, and I think even the most protégé would be the beneficiaries of that home. In fact, one home, or institution in the city center, of a tourist town such as Trogir, is certainly not suitable. Now, I'd like to beg you. Since I received the same answer from your predecessor last year, I would ask you again in a year's time to remind you... I get the same answer. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3098	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić, 339th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3099	The amendment is not accepted because no advances have been carried out guaranteeing the real justification for inclusion, the social care network... The need to build this type of institution which we support is that there is no request from the county. [[Because of the announcement, the speaker does not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3100	Thank you. Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3101	First of all, there's every assumption that this is done. So I asked to build a home for the old and powerless in the Križevci and a home for the elderly and the powerless in Đurđevec, and I did not ask for a large amount, but 2 million kuna, which is enough to start construction this year. I am convinced that the county is able to provide land with cities, create project documentation to start building this year, but if we don't get into it then there is no assumption that this is going forward, and I am sure that the county has also requested an extension of the home for the elderly and the powerless in Koprivnica and the two decommissionings in Križevci and Đurđevec. This is simply one answer more formal that no conjecture was created. In such a way, there will never be any conjecture. The assumptions are created by opening a budget item that allows access to the preparation and planning of the project. Then it consists of ensuring land, contracts to produce project documentation, and then going into construction. It is therefore not possible to provide a presumption unless the budgetary item is secured. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3102	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 340th Amendment of Representatives Tanja Vrbat and Mr Dean Kozlevec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3103	The amendment is not accepted by reason, as is the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3104	Thank you. Ms. Representative Tanja Vrbat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3105	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, a home for the elderly and powerless in the city of Umag is much needed. Namely, you certainly know that for the area of the former... which brings together three cities and three municipalities there is only one home for the elderly and powerless in the town of Novigrad for which to wait over two years for the place. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The city of Umag, as well as other investments for which the money is not planned in the state budget, will finance itself in one part, but for this retirement home there are not enough around 20 million kunas that the city singles out on its own, so I am asking of course for a vote for the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3106	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. IDS representative club, 341th Amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3107	The amendment shall not be accepted with reasons as well as the previous amendment. No required advances have been performed.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3108	On behalf of the club, Mr. Marin Brkarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3109	Mr. Minister, I would say that only co-financing at home for the elderly in Poreč is the reason that the home itself built the town of Poreč, funded and it was put into operation, so the users are in it. Former Minister Neven Ljubicic pledged that the ministry would co-finance accommodation for 30 users. This is exactly the amount that we are always asking for million and 200 thousand, a million 152 thousand kuna to co-finance home work in Poreč, which is used by users from the Poreč area, but also the wider Istrian County. Please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3110	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 342. Amendment of the same club of IDS representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3111	The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3112	I'm withdrawing this amendment since it's identical to the earlier amendment of MP Vrbat.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3113	Thank you. The amendment has been withdrawn. 343. IDS agent club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3114	The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3115	Thank you. Mr. Miletić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3116	We have requested these funds to finance the project documentation, the city of Pula and the Istrian County signed a joint agreement and set out to build a project documentation to build a new home for older and powerless people in Pula, given that today there are more than 700 people on the waiting list and simply existing capacities do not satisfy, so please vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3117	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 344 Mr. Representative Zlatko Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3118	The amendment is not accepted because the basis of the agreement on co-financing of the construction of the Centre for Education and Education "Tomislav Špoljar" concluded between the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, the Ministry of Health and Social Care and the City of Varazdin was established on 29 August 2007 the total obligation of the Ministry of Health and Social Care in the amount of 2 million kuna, of which 1 million kuna is due in 2008, and the second million in 2009.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3119	Thank you. Mr. Zlatko Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3120	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. I can't accept this argument. I said last week during the budget debate that the town of Varazdin provided 65 thousand square meters of the best location for the new building and I think it should be respected and that the ministry should assess the city's contribution through this vision and help finance the building because the students of this school centre are in one completely inappropriate condition and need help as soon as possible. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3121	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Mr. Representative Miranda Mrsic, 345. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3122	The amendment shall not be accepted as a result of the provision of Article 8. The health care law adopted in 2002, and given this law, we cannot invest in county institutions, and until then, the second loan of the development bank was invested 70 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3123	Thank you. Mr. Representative Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3124	An expected answer to a question about county hospitals. As we know, county hospitals are in catastrophic condition. The Sisak-Moslavina hospital is a hospital that covers a large territory and of special state concern. And this building facility would improve health care in that area and demand a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3125	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The same representative of the 346th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3126	The amendment is not accepted with the expected explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3127	Thank you. Mr. Representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3128	The answer is expected. I think there's something that the Ministry of Health doesn't need to be hidden behind the law, behind the articles of the law. Mr. Secretary comes from a hospital like that, and I think we should take care of that. And I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3129	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The same representative Mr Miranda Mrsic 347.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3130	The amendment shall not be accepted with a preliminary explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3131	Thank you. Mr. Representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3132	Same explanation. However, we still have another part, which is a hospital, a neuropsychiatric hospital called Popočeva, which takes care of patients and prisoners. So these are patients who have committed more serious crimes, and we fall under both the European Union and the laws of the European Union. And we think we should do it as soon as possible, not wait a while. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3133	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Mr., representative Ms. Romana Jerkovic and Zeljko Jovanovic. Who is, in fact, the 348th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3134	The amendment is not accepted because the funds provided at the position of the Rijeka Clinical Hospital Centre are sufficient for the implementation of concluded contracts on the performance of works, design and equipment in accordance with the agreed dynamics in 2008.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3135	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3136	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. I must say that I express my disappointment to myself, the inhabitants of the Primorje-Gorski, Istria and Lika-Senj County who, with these appropriations, well know that the hospital will not see for sure until 2015, but probably 2020 and 2025. But even if we could accept that 43 million kunas you say are enough for work in 2008, we can't stress the offensive amount of 377 thousand kuna for medical and laboratory equipment of a top-level institution that is, in fact, a fundamental hospital facility in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, I ask that the proposed amendments be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3137	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 349th Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3138	The amendment shall not be accepted with reasons such as that of Amendment 347 and the appropriations provided for in the budget shall be disbursed.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3139	There's no representative. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. The amendment was not accepted, did not receive the required majority. 350th Representative Željko Vincelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3140	The amendment is not accepted. After an analysis of the structure of the equipment obtained for the General Hospital Zabok and the structures of staff at the hospital, the dynamics of their filling were established the dynamics of the purchase of additional equipment adapted to the dynamics of the arrival of personnel. In order for the equipment purchased not to stand in the expectation of untapped frames, it would become obsolete in the meantime.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3141	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zeljko Vincelj. Here you go1
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3142	We read today in one week with big letters of title, of course in the intonation believe or not, that Zagorje has received a hospital debt and that TV soaps are recorded in emergency rooms and so on. I must express my resentment that we are creating a case out of something that should be proud of the partners who built this hospital, which is the state and the Krapina-Zagorian County in equal roles. There was plenty of time. The hospital started building in 2003. It's been building for three years. Another year needed to get used paper completely enough to make all the equipment and equipment supplies and necessary personnel that will treat patients in this hospital for that time. I beg you, let's dissipate these spirits at the hospital in Praćko and let her become a hospital that will treat Zagoreca, us 140 thousand. Please vote on that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3143	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Representative Zvonimir Mršić 351.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3144	The amendment is not accepted with an explanation as under regular number... Article 8 on health care. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3145	Thank you. Mr. Lobster. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3146	The amendment shall be rejected in accordance with Article 8. ... Well, do I have the right to explain Article 8? [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3147	So if it can be explained briefly, it's not bad for the better clarity of everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3148	I said this is also a colleague of Mršić's, so Article 8 on healthcare prevents investment from the state budget in county hospitals. ... So, uh... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3149	Thank you. Mr. Representative Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3150	Otherwise, that law doesn't stop you from investing in county hospitals, but good. I just want to be clear and clear. So, there won't be a General Hospital in Bjelovar, right? Is that what that means? Does this mean that there will be no General Hospital in Bjelovar?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3151	Please. This... Please. These are not parliamentary issues but are being discussed on amendments. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3152	Yeah. Okay. Here, so I must conclude, I have given the amendment...... Don't be nervous. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So, I've given the amendment to get in, for 10 million kuna to start building the General Hospital in Bjelovar. It is obvious that the minister says he refuses the amendment, which means that the mandate of this government in Bjelovar will not build a general hospital with money from the Ministry of Health, so I will request a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3153	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 352. Representative Ivan Hanžek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3154	352. Is it? The amendment is not accepted by reason as under regular number 350, so that the new equipment does not stand unused because there is no frame, so that in five or six years when we acquire the terms of the usability of that equipment it will not be obsolete.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3155	Thank you. Mr. Ivan Hanzek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3156	Well, I think unfortunately this hospital, today's article, I haven't read it, but I've seen the cover, about that hospital, which unfortunately suffers in recent years from the political consequences of one and the other, a little bit of an inkling, and unfortunately the price pays by 142 thousand people of Krapina-Zagorian County. I hope that in the rest of the year, possible rebalancing will speed things up and that we will take it off the agenda because, as Col. Vincelj said, it is indeed the pride of both the Croatian state and the Croatian people that doesn't deserve to be used halfway and not to be in full function. And that's why I expect understanding from one of the rebalances. Thank you. I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3157	Thank you. The amendment has been withdrawn. 353rd Amendment of Representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3158	The amendment is not accepted with an explanation as under regular number 345 of the famous article on basic health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3159	There's no representative. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3160	The amendment shall not be accepted as the source of funds for the settlement of the due and unpaid liabilities is set out in Article 9(2). The health care law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3161	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS, Mr. Representative Brkaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3162	I would only Mr. President, Mr. Minister, say that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has said in its programme that it will resuscitate general and clinical hospitals in the Republic of Croatia. That was January 12th, not that long ago. And for this reason we are thinking that given that Pula General Hospital has a debt of 100 million kuna, which was created on the basis of an inadequate budget or a monthly limit of thought, it is our duty to settle in the context of the recovery of all hospital facilities in the Republic of Croatia, meaning general and clinical hospitals. We ask to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3163	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 355th same club IDS.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3164	The amendment is not accepted because the issue will be discussed through the construction of Pula General Hospital.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3165	Thank you. Mr. Representative Brkaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3166	We can withdraw this amendment, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3167	The amendment has been withdrawn. 356. Branka Crlenko's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3168	The amendment is not accepted after the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 2002 has not been able to invest in reconstruction and reconstruction of a general hospital whose founder of the county. However, the government is considering a complete solution to the health issue in the area of Sibenik-Knin County, which will also solve the problem of Sibenik General Hospital. The two of us spoke before this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3169	Mrs. Branchie Blackie. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3170	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, I'm looking forward to a complete solution. I assume it's the construction of a new modern hospital in Sibenik. However, due to the alarming situation in the existing facilities of the Sibenik hospital, which are necessary to resuscitate the gynecology department, the birthplace and the earpiece, I ask that my amendment be put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3171	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 357th Amendment of Representative Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3172	The amendment is not accepted since the funds for that activity are provided by the amendment to the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3173	Thank you. Mr. Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3174	Here, I express my satisfaction that here is what one of the amendments to the opposition is nevertheless accepted and transformed into an amendment to the government. This will help the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and the citizens of Europe who have suffered from leukemia to find their donor. I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3175	Thank you very much. This amendment has been withdrawn. Ms. Representative Marija Lugarić, 358th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3176	The amendment is not accepted because the planned funds are sufficient to fulfil the obligations.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3177	Thank you. Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3178	Dear Ministers, after every rescue action we hear except in a way that praises and thanks to the people who have carried out the rescue actions we hear in some way from their side demands to increase their resources in some way so that the people who work voluntarily would not have at least extra costs in the execution and extremely noble tasks. So, I am proposing by amendment that we return the funds for the Mountain Rescue Service back to what they were last year, which is an increase of only 20 thousand kuna. So for these 110, 111 billion state budgets, it's really negligible, but for people who do volunteer work extremely noblely and more than necessary. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3179	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. The amendment didn't go through, he didn't get the required majority. Representative Marija Lugarić 359th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3180	The amendment is not accepted because the funds for this purpose are secured through other regular activities of the Ministry of Health and Social Care.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3181	Thank you. Mrs. Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3182	Your Honor, Minister, in what activities if I could get an explanation because you didn't give me an explanation. So, an item on the prevention of alcoholism in young people existed within the 1307 programme of action for young people. It's not really you, it's still Minister Ljubicic, in the past budget, who suggested that you cancel. You were then a representative or vice president of the Parliament. This is what you supported, and this has been seen in the activities that have not been carried out in the past year, and I think as well as I know that alcoholism is an increasingly public health problem in young people. So I suggest we just return that item. It's not a large amount, but perhaps, in fact, symbolic, but if anything else you understand this amendment and as an appeal that we are seriously starting to deal with it as a state. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3183	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Ms. Representative Marija Lugarić, 360th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3184	The amendment is not accepted by reason as under regular number 358 that the funds are sufficient to comply with these obligations.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3185	Mrs. Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3186	Dear Minister, given your specialization, I expected a different answer and ultimately support for this amendment. So, I know that as a minister, it is rather uncomfortable for you to stand behind a budget where, for the preservation and improvement of the reproductive health of young people, 65 thousand 988 kuna is no longer possible because it is the draft budget behind which you stand and defend. I will remind you that this year the implementation, experimental implementation of the health education and education programmes and that according to national programmes and all those public health actions that were conducted were spoken among other things and that our programme had entered and screened primarily the freshman population on chlamydia or some other disease. It is likely to you that with 65 thousand 988 kuna as far as you predict it will not be possible to achieve it. I therefore propose an increase in this amount, and as with the last amendment, I ask you somewhere in the planning of the next budget when you may have a little more experience in the ministerial function to give really longer and needed attention, given that it is really very public health problems. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3187	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. The 361st Amendment of Madam Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3188	The amendment shall not be accepted with a justification as set out in regular number 358. the funds provided shall be sufficient to fulfil the obligations.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3189	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3190	I'm sorry, but I'm asking you now to repeat your argument on Amendment 358. I mean, because this way to explain the amendments really doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3191	I said that the argument is the same as under regular number 358 and added that the funds provided are sufficient to fulfil the commitments undertaken.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3192	Madam Representative, the Honorable Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3193	Yeah, now I see that the explanation is as much like that of the Mountain Rescue Service, and it's a program of humanization of hospital treatment for births and children, so I don't know what that has to do with the Mountain Rescue Service right now, but maybe somewhere it does. You're actually reducing that amount for this year's program. It's true, it was 30 thousand kuna last year. Now it's 28280 kuna. If I'm not mistaken, it's basically that program that's being worked in collaboration with UNICEF, which I'd like to warn you about. I suggest that this amount be changed and that it increase to at least 100,000 kuna, because I'd like to warn you among other things. I think I'm saying exactly that more than 50% of our hospitals lost that status of the hospital "friend of the child", possibly because of not implementing the program. Please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3194	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol 362.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3195	The amendment is not accepted because the planned funds are sufficient to fulfil the obligations.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3196	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3197	Well, I really don't know, Mr. Minister, how these planned funds of $56,500 are enough to implement a programme of preserving and improving women's health. When I look at what we've written down, what it's really supposed to be. In fact, there is one provision that says that through the Ministry of Health, measures should be improved to preserve the reproductive health of women, and to promote the understanding and need of the protection of their reproductive and sexual rights. And when you go to see Mr. Ministers in the National Policy to promote gender equality, what should be done, or what should be done this year, then this amount that I propose of 100,000 kuna is absolutely insufficient. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3198	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 363rd representative of Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3199	The amendment shall not be accepted on the grounds that the planned funds are sufficient to fulfil the obligations.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3200	Mrs. Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3201	So given the explanation that she made just before colleague Sobol, I'm only going to do what she said to add the fact that one part of us was in early or mid-January to publicly mark the fight against uterus cancer. You have also given support to this action, and indeed 56,000 kunas cannot be enough for all actions. Here again, I appeal to this amendment and suggest that you seriously consider the budget for next year. Somewhere I hope that as an expert in your narrow specialty you'll have some more understanding for that. And on the other hand, like here and some colleagues suggest maybe it's better to get some items out and not have them at all when we don't want to seriously spend them. Because indeed in the budget of 11 billion kuna there are items of fifty thousand kuna that literally are not enough for almost anything to be planned for is more than ridiculous. So I'm withdrawing this amendment and I'm not asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3202	Thank you very much. Amendment withdrawn. Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic 364th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3203	The amendment is not accepted. The means of insurance shall be assessed sufficient since the preparation is under way of reforming the health and health care system, which plans a new drug policy and a new model of financing hospital care. The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to continuously monitor the consumption of funds in this position and to take the necessary measures in case of need.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3204	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3205	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, unfortunately, I can't agree with you. It ends just two years ago as the Fund of Expensive Medicines was formed on 9 March 2006. Later he was expanded on several occasions. Last year, 200 million kunas were scheduled for the item. However, 306 million kunas were spent. Your predecessor, Minister Ljubicic, has also pledged to extend another new group of medicines, which means that you and I know well that this 200 million kuna will not be enough. Therefore, I ask that this amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3206	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 365th Amendment of Mr Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3207	The amendment is not accepted. Insurance funds shall be assessed sufficient for intervention cardiology activities. The HZZO will also monitor the execution by health institutions in 2008 and in case of a breakthrough of the position of one institution will redistribute funds from an institution that does not achieve enforcement, i.e. solve the problem properly.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3208	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3209	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, you know as well as I do that in Croatia the most people die from heart disease. They die of heart disease because unhealthy food, under-moving, smoking too much, and for every commendation are preventive programmes prepared by the ministry to act to reduce unhealthy habits in Croatia. At the same time, however, it is disappointing that you reduce the amount of money intended for intervention cardiology because it is well known that of these 100 53 die from heart disease, and of these 53, the most die from a heart attack. While 20 years ago from a heart attack, the mortality rate was 30%. Today it has already been reduced to 5% precisely thanks to intervention cardiology. I therefore insist that we also vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3210	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I thank the Minister of Health and Social Welfare. And I'm calling on the Minister of Justice, Mrs. Anna Lovrin. 366. Amendment of MP Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3211	Mr President, this amendment is not accepted on the grounds that the planned funds are in the position of reform of criminal legislation which has been proposed is sufficient and according to the evaluations for the reason that the full implementation of the new Penal Code will be only in the coming year.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3212	Thank you. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3213	If it is true that this planned amount of 60,000 kuna will be sufficient for the reform of criminal law, that means that in this year, the reform of criminal legislation has been abandoned. In fact, we know that in the past term we have spent just saying that the investigation will be excluded from the formal procedure. So the question now is what's been done here. This presupposes, above all, a good parallel to the normative assumption of an accelerated education of the regular forces that will act under the auspices, i.e. the command of the state's attorney, which means one additional education, and also the additional education of the state's attorneys who need special education for such one needs above all to know what they may require of regular officials who will then fall under this new vision of our criminal proceedings and actions under their command. Unfortunately, this is here with these miserable 60,000 kunas we can't see, only if we accept this as the minister said it would not be planned until next year, but then we have to admit that it's not a rapid reform, because we're already coughing for a whole series of years because this has already happened, let alone from that promise that we're going to put reform into fifth gear. So, I think that this amount of 500 thousand kuna is necessary to carry out preparatory actions in this sense changes in the CAP, but equally necessary changes in our criminal legislation on our own regarding economic incrimination and more effective persecution and sanctioning of economic crime. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3214	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 367 amendments by Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3215	This amendment shall not be accepted for the reason that the planned funds at the position of the Judicial Academy in the item of professional training of the staff according to the estimates are considered sufficient. The funds in the position of the Judicial Academy have been significantly increased compared to last year, and we note that the funds for professional training are planned except for this item and other activities relating to judicial authorities totalling 3 million kunas.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3216	Thank you. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3217	I find it inadmissible that funds for the education of judges and other judicial officials and employees are being reduced compared to last year, and therefore those funds were neither far enough for this need. In particular, it is not necessary to prove to each other here that the education of judges and other judicial officials is one condition I would say condico sine qua non-judicial reform. It is well known that the centre for education of judges and other judicial officials began with the work in 2001 when it was named the centre, because these were just the beginnings. What happened in the meantime? That the center was named this pretentious Justice Academy. Something called a judicial academy or a general academy, so I can't afford the funds, please, of $400,000. Well, that's not enough for an evening school for one class, let alone for the systematic education of judicial officials. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3218	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 368 representatives of Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3219	Thank you. This amendment is not accepted for the reason why project documentation is planned for this facility in 2008 and this will be provided by means of emergency interventions for judicial authorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3220	Thank you. Mr. Zvonimir Mršić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3221	I'll accept your argument, although it would be much better and more rational and optimistic if you opened the item, yes, so it doesn't have to be 20 million than to be called in the budget as the item of preparation of projects, so that it's called the judicial body in Koprivnica, building a palace of justice I don't know how much you need for project documentation, but that there's an item and not that you're doing it from intervention funds. But I'll take your word for it, and I'll withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3222	Thank you. The amendment has been withdrawn. 369 MPs Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3223	Thank you. This amendment is not accepted on the grounds that, for the completion of buildings for the needs of judicial authorities in Split, additional investment is foreseen at construction facilities in the period from 2008 to 2010, which is enough to complete reconstruction and adaptation and put into service.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3224	Thank you. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3225	Madam Minister, this building is additionally secured for the needs of judicial authorities in Split, which has been having a burning problem for many years, there are the biggest lags we all agree on, in these four large cities, the largest city. So the building was secured in 2003. So it goes for seven years that we haven't had that building restored to solve the problems behind the premises of the judicial officials so that we can do our job more effectively. It may be true and I believe it's true what you're saying in 2010, but these are the means that need to be provided immediately, so before I say that we've secured that space in a year and a half, we've got the building, and it's inadmissible to have this adaptation for such a burning problem for this long time. That's what everyone would agree on, and you'd see it right away. So this one building that would then assume new judicial officials, because you can't just name them yourself, you know, because they don't have anywhere to sit there. That's where the court records are in the halls. So this is one of the biggest problems in the judiciary and the effect of that would be quickly visible in all statistics and you would feel some then and one flight and a swing that would then give some kind of and different picture that nothing is hopeless and that things could really move. Like this, at a pace like this, and I don't think that's going anywhere, just divorcing things. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3226	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović 370. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3227	This amendment is not accepted on the grounds that an idea project and a location permit for the justice market will be developed during 2008 for which 2 million kuna is planned and that is estimated to be sufficient. After obtaining the location permit, the project documentation shall be developed. In 2008, the market for justice also envisions the launch of the demolition and reconstruction of the state's attorney's office building, which is planned for 5 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3228	Thank you. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3229	In 2003, the government then ensured that these abandoned spaces and those that were not in perspective nor of interest to the Ministry of Defence and were given precisely to the Ministry of Justice. It immediately came to light, a part of an idea project had already been developed, it had already started to rebuild, and one part had to be completed in 2004. Many years have passed, it's still in some kind of... it should have been all over and put into operation. But what changed in the meantime? So these buildings that were supposed to serve the judicial bodies in Zagreb where we also have this great backlog and a big problem. He received only a pompous name of the square of justice in Zagreb. So more important to the name is the work than it is here. However, it was not you who changed that name, but it has been gradually changed, so the name placed on the square of justice in Zagreb. And when will he be finished? Far away, it was supposed to be in the last term, but now we see that things are going to go on forever again. That is not allowed to say, because just Split and Zagreb are the biggest problems. Practically, if we solve the problems of the leftovers in Split and Zagreb, that is 905 problems solved, and we know that in Zagreb the burning problem of the building is also for the judicial bodies. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3230	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 371st Amendment of Madam Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3231	This amendment is not accepted, with the reason that within 100% of capital investment funds in the prison system, it is estimated according to current data that 2 million kuna will be sufficient for emergency interventions in prison buildings.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3232	Thank you. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3233	I think the proposed amount is the minimum below which for these urgent interventions on the same old-fashioned buildings, especially until new spaces are built for these needs should be increased in order to essentially reduce with this additional 3 million kuna the damage that will happen, which is by mourning the imprisoned, detained persons due to inadequate conditions. We know that last year Croatia was sentenced before the International Court of Human Rights just because of inadequate conditions in our penitentiary institutions, both in prisons and in the penitentiary. That's why I think investing in, or investing in construction facilities with these few million, so 3 additional million would reduce far, far less damage that is very, very likely that some of the detained, detained persons will not sue the state and we will lose that dispute in front of the court. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3234	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Representative Branko Crljenko and 372nd Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3235	This amendment is not accepted for the reason why in 2008 the creation of ideological urban solutions for penitentiary offices in Sibenik and the planned millions of kuna funds in that position are considered sufficient for that purpose.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3236	Thank you. Mrs. Brankica Crlenko. Here you go. If she's not here, who's for this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 373rd Amendment of MP Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3237	This amendment shall not be accepted with the same explanation as the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3238	Thank you. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3239	It is good that the building of the penitentiary is done, however, this amount of one million kuna assumes, so all year long we will spend first in an idea-based urban solution. Who knows when it'll be over. So, in this planned prison, prisoners whose parents haven't even met yet, and we know what the situation in our prisons is, the re-repair, the unfulfilled jobs, the lack of equipment, the financial resources that are the characteristics of today's prison system. It would be interesting, if we see statistics on which the public is already aware of how many persons have committed suicide, how many have died in a prison cell because of an overdose, and all because of the inability of adequate control, and those who have been imprisoned, the state does not necessarily have its obligations by shutting them down by resolving its obligations. However, according to the state, new commitments have been made to these incarcerated persons by the state. So here's what I'm suggesting is that this goes rapidly and that this amount of 5 million kuna guarantees that this building should be resolved in a more reasonable time, because this is a very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3240	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 374th Amendment of Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3241	This amendment is not accepted, on the grounds that in 2008, a continuation of the project documentation is envisaged, the establishment of the necessary permits, which provides for an amount of 300,000 kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3242	Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3243	Madam Minister, both you and I, and everyone knows that the proposed amount is not enough for any more serious work. It's possible for some sort of repair maybe some pipe, maybe some painting, but some construction work that would solve that problem we're familiar with right now isn't enough. So, with this amendment, I propose to increase the amount so that at least one part of the building can be arranged. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3244	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 375th Amendment of Madam Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3245	This amendment is not accepted on the grounds that the planned funds, the prevention of corruption, organised crime, the anti-corruption strategy in the current proposed amount are considered sufficient, and that this means of combating corruption are provided in both the budgets and the items of other anti-corruption operators.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3246	Thank you. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3247	It is true that you claim that they are secured in different positions, however it is unacceptable to reduce funds to combat corruption of organised crime, given the problems Croatia has and in view of last year. So that's one topic, that is, the attack, the cancer of the wounds I would call it Croatian society. We have serious objections, complaints from Europe, we are aware of this together. Thus, an energetic struggle against this evil certainly requires certain strengths and, above all, financial resources. That's why it's inadmissible that this, however, is the most we're talking about judicial reform at all times, except when a budget is being passed, but I think there's enough maturity here for us all to support additional revenues and resources just for the Ministry of Justice, and on our own for these needs. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3248	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović 376th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3249	This amendment is not accepted on the grounds that the planned funds at the standstill position as an alternative way of resolving disputes in the professional training of employees are sufficient according to the assessment of these intentions and I must say that we consider this position extremely important and develop an alternative way of resolving disputes.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3250	Thank you. Mrs. Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3251	Here, again today, I note that this Law on Peace, which therefore contains alternative ways of resolving disputes in a peaceful way, is one of the important laws that would allow, or assumed, that it would relieve the judiciary and cases in a peaceful manner. Of course, it requires a special training of mediators. A peacemaker. In the end, I will also point out that three, four years have passed, that before the end of the last term, we remembered that the law exists, but here at the beginning of this term only 50 thousand kuna for education, for the systematic education of the peacemakers is not a serious job. A seminar can be held here and there, and someone can call once, maybe twice. But the funds invested here aren't lost funds. It's a means that would hardly relieve the judiciary. It would require a certain and smaller number of judicial officials and all those who work both advisers and officials and substitutes in the judiciary. And the effect of this would have been large but equally the parties themselves, because the peaceful resolution of the dispute and the peaceful outcome cannot replace any verdict that always creates one dissatisfaction and the interruption of business relations between these two partners or participants in the court dispute. So, as I think this is a basic condition, this is one of the fundamental parts of the law on judicial reform, the amount of 50 thousand kuna is not a serious amount, this 500 thousand kuna, it's really a minimum that shouldn't go under, it shouldn't go. If we really have had a serious count of a peaceful solution to the dispute as an alternative and a dispensation of the judiciary, then that should be approved. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3252	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Mr. Representative Sima Lucin 377.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3253	This amendment is not accepted. The planned funds at the position of the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime increased by almost 20% compared to last year. And according to the proposal of the office itself, they are considered sufficient to date.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3254	Thank you. Mr. Representative Sima Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3255	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Madam Minister! I believe we will agree that the budget, among other things, is an expression of a certain political will or political programme of the ruling majority. The argument that USKOK or the representatives of USKOK agree with me is such a minimal increase is unserious, because one who believes that something more serious for 14 million kunas can, can't actually do as much as I suggest, but at least demonstrates a certain will. In fact, if you look at the last few years of growth of the USKOK funds, you'll see that they don't actually grow or grow minimally. Today, Olli Rehn ordered the following before his arrival in Croatia. Gentlemen in Croatia must resolve corruption in 2008. If you do not solve it, there is nothing from the European Union. My question to all of us is. Is this enough to fight corruption? A team before we listened to the announcements of various specialist teams in pre-election and post-election times, where MIP staff, USKOK, judiciary, etc., will form groups that will fight organised crime or especially against corruption. I have to admit that I don't see in this whole budget actually this kind of, this kind of commitment to follow those announcements. How I personally believe that I'm afraid this doesn't turn out the way we had with the National Monitoring Committee for the Action Plan where we did everything fine, and then finally we found that we didn't provide minimum conditions for the functioning of that national plan. As I believe that corruption is not a matter of overvote, as I think it is a priority issue of national interest, I don't think that should be outvoted. And I therefore withdraw this amendment, with those who have proposed it having to be aware and responsible if these money is insufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3256	The amendment has been withdrawn. Thank you very much. 378th Amendment of Mr Ranko Ostojić's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3257	Thank you. This amendment shall not be accepted with the same explanation as with the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3258	Mr. Ranko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3259	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Your Honor, Madam Minister! I will not repeat what MP Lucin said, but I think that if anyone else, and that means employees of the Office for the Prevention of Organized Crime and Corruption, should have additional funds and salaries for particularly difficult working conditions, in that sense I have submitted the amendment. If we're going to keep going on and on and on, just with that situation that means that we're not further stimulating them, then we're going to have a variant with which the office has actually been stagnating for years, I'm not going to say by result, I'm going to say by terms for my employees. I think it's absolutely necessary in this part of it means for additional conditions, for especially difficult, it occurs at those times when they do such jobs that are only related to their name, which means suppressing the most difficult forms of organised crime. In that sense, it was my suggestion. Thank you. Voting.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3260	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I thank the Minister of Justice. Regional Development Fund and Finance Minister Mr. Ivan Schuker. Here you go. 379th Amendment of Representative Željko Vincelj.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3261	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The government does not accept this amendment for reasons that the above-mentioned amendment does not specify the specific projects required by the increase. However, you know that under the Regional Development Fund Act, domestic County ranks projects under the Regional Development Fund to be financed. And prior to the tender, the basis of the guidelines given by the Government of the Republic of Croatia is determined in accordance with fiscal power, the total amount of funding for each county. So since I'm saying you didn't specify concrete projects, this amendment cannot be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3262	Okay. Mr. Zeljko Vincelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3263	The government often and on every occasion likes to highlight its commitment to fostering uniform regional development in order to gradually reduce the differences between the richer and poorer areas of our country. That sounds nice in theory, but in practice, this year's budget looks different. The only or perhaps one of the few resources that has a budget drop compared to last year is the Regional Development Fund. Funds in the county fund, meaning the name from county to county in this year were planned with 60 million kuna compared to last year when it was around 150 million kuna. This is what these unidentified purposes in the budget are still coming to. My county received 13.5 million kuna last year and this one should be given three times less, i.e. 3.6 million kuna. At the very least, there is a bit of a strange trend in promoting regional development. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3264	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 380th Amendment of Madam Representative Dragica Zgrebec and Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3265	So almost the same explanation because these amendments do not specify concrete projects and, based on the announced tender, the county ranks and proposes projects. But let me also say immediately why this year's funding at the Regional Development Fund compared to last year. For the simple reason we have the Ministry of Regional Development this year and one part of the projects will be financed in a far larger financial amount this year through the Ministry of Regional Development.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3266	Thank you. Mrs. Representative, Dear Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3267	It's not true we didn't define which project. We have stated that it is for a project that is a major project in the county and is taking place in most of our municipalities and cities, which is a drain or sewerage. Every year, we reduce about 30%, in this year by 2/3 are smaller than they were realised in 2007, and we only ask the amendment to leave the funds at the level of last year, so on about 7 million kuna. Now, with 2 million and something practically nothing can be done, then you better wipe out those funds at all, or if that's how you think to treat the Regional Development Fund, then best to shut down. I'm asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3268	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 381st Amendment of Representatives Goran Beus Richembergh and Tonino Picula.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3269	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the amendment. At its session in Zapresic, the government assigned 30 hectares of land to the city's new cemetery. The town of Velika Gorica and the Office for State Property Management needed to resolve it administratively. Also, as regards these funds, the City of Velika Gorica could make an exception to the competition that was scheduled to run this project towards Zagreb County, because if this amendment was adopted then only one single unit would open up a new division until it is known that according to the Business and Labour Act of the Regional Development Fund, the unit's tender for local self-government will run towards the county and then the county will determine and send to the Regional Development Fund that units of local self-government will receive the money.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3270	Representative Tonino Picula. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3271	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. It is one of the most important projects in the town of Velika Gorica, especially since I appreciate that this is where the interests of the city of Velika Gorica and the Government of the Republic of Croatia are touched. On 4 May 2007, the Government of the Republic of Croatia reached a conclusion in Zapresic, which supports the proposal of the town of Velika Gorica for the construction of a new large-scale cemetery Kusanec, and tasked the Central Office for the Management of State Property to resolve property-legal relations on property owned by the Republic of Croatia within the scope of a detailed plan of planning. We've made space-planned documentation. However, it is due to the seriousness of this project that should be extended to more than 24 hectares and to the fact that the city's existing cemetery in Velika Gorica is almost completed and since the town of Velika Gorica is the sixth largest in the Republic of Croatia, I believed that you would find reasons to adopt at least this amendment in part because it is particularly important this moment to assign the land that the Government granted to Velika Gorica with a decision on the availability and right of construction, however, this has not yet been made. But it is also necessary to support this project financially. Unfortunately, it will obviously remain incomplete and therefore, Mr. Vice President, I request a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3272	The government of the Republic of Croatia has assigned land.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3273	Excuse me. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 382. Representative Željko Vincelj.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3274	The government does not accept this amendment because these activities are planned by means of a water supply development programme in Krapina-Zagorje County where the fund is only one of the co-finances of these projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3275	Representative Željko Vincelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3276	The Regional Development Fund was next to the Ministry of Sea, Ministry of Agriculture, Croatian Auto-road and Croatian Water, the fifth signatories of this agreement, which you mention in 2006 for the praises of 226 million kuna for the water supply of Krapina-Zagorje County. And it would be all right if the agreement did not stand nicely in 2008 for the Regional Development Fund to have its participation amounted to 9 million kuna and therefore we are submitting this amendment. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3277	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 383. Representatives Tanja Vrbat and Dino Kozlevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3278	The government refuses for reasons in accordance with Article 12. Water law. State investments in water construction are carried out under a programme of state investment by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the competent minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3279	Representative Tanja Vrbat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3280	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Minister, it is a necessary water line for one of the least developed parts of Istria's county to move from the city of Labin to the village of Ravni, which is about 8 kilometers long where it has numerous settlements and has great potential for tourism development, and therefore it needs a water supply system. I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3281	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. State hydrometeorological institute 384. Amendment representative Zdenko Franić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3282	The government rejects this amendment because it considers the proposed funds sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3283	Representative Zdenko Franić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3284	Mr. Minister, artificial action in time is a highly dubious activity and I would remind you of the government's conclusion of 31 March 2005 which adopted the opinion of the Ministry of Science and Technology that the existing system of defence against fighting in the Republic of Croatia does not have a satisfactory foothold in science and that there are no objective indicators of the effectiveness and justification of such a system. Similarly, colleagues in the Republic of Slovenia, and also in Croatia, the head of the Ministry of Agriculture, have abolished the point of defence against the fight. The redistribution of these funds would improve climate-based measurements at the State Hydrometeorological Institute by enabling longer-term, more accurate weather forecasts. So, from a few days to a few weeks in advance. The fight defence should be organised in another way by ensuring, setting up networks, etc. But not by rockets or such defenses. And I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3285	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 385. also representative Zdenko Franić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3286	The government does not accept because it considers the proposed funds sufficient for the implementation of this programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3287	Representative Zdenko Franić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3288	Mr. Minister, I repeat once again that artificial action in time, or defense from fighting, has no holdout in scientific research which can be checked in the databases of scientific works of all international bases such as the circus,... etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thus, Dr. Ugo Gertner, president of the German weather service, says: “Germany is not involved in any time modification program. We do not think it is worth it, although there is a private company in Germany that defends against the fight." However, there are no obvious results, because we cannot prove that it works. In this budget, several million euros are therefore foreseen for a questionable activity which is not scientifically justified and could be better used and even in a way that gives defences against fighting to private entities. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3289	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 386. Amendment Zdenko Franić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3290	The government does not accept because it considers that the funds provided are sufficient for the programme to take place.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3291	Representative Zdenko Franić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3292	The additional resources I requested for the scope and quality of laboratory measurements at the State Hydrometeorological Institute would help establish a quality management system in accordance with international standards requirements. I would quote Professor Joseph Roškar as head of the Ministry of Meteorology of the Republic of Slovenia’s Environment Agency, which says: “In the 1970s and 1980s, the Hungarian meteorological service had a system to defend against the fighting that we left. We spent a lot of money, but the results were weak or nothing. I think that the missile defence system is currently not effective enough," so I repeat that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has concluded that there is no foothold in science and there are no objective indicators of the effectiveness and justification of such a scheme. In other words, the state should not finance a questionable activity with taxpayers' money. Furthermore, because of the chemicals contained in the rockets, soil pollution occurs and threatens, for example, the organic farming that should be supported in the Republic of Croatia at any time. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3293	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. State Bureau of Measurement Amendment 387, MP Zdenko Franić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3294	The government doesn't accept the amendment. It considers that the proposed funds are sufficient for the implementation of the complete programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3295	It is also about redistributing funds from the head to artificial action on time. I'd remind you that fighting is the same kind of downhill as snow, and I don't see, for example, why the State Hydrometeorological Institute has to be in charge of defending against the fight, let's just say, cleaning the streets from the snow. So this interesting activity could be given. I repeat that the defense against fighting is one very dubious activity, so the Secretary General of the World Meteorology Organisation considers it. We were talking about an experiment to defend against a fight, and there's still a lot of research activities that need to be done in that segment. A lot of experiments have been carried out in many countries, and as you know, the results are still very, very unconvinced. As the defence against a coup under the State Patronate remains only in countries with heavy communist heritage in accordance with the practice of the European Union, we should restructure and at least relocate the defence system from the jurisdiction of the State Hydrometeorological Institute. Of course, respecting the social, psychological and political sensitivity, and in accordance with the wishes of the county and respecting the natural provisions and conclusions of your government. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3296	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Croatian Mine Action Centre MPs Gordan Maras and Ante Kotromanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3297	Thank you very much, Mr. President. To be honest, every year in defense of the budget, this is the most difficult amendment. In fact, the hardest part is to give him any explanation. But what I can say is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Mine Action Centre are working on an accelerated demining financing project and I would not want to offend anyone. But not even an amendment from Mr. Maras and Kotromanovic, from counterpart Zgrebec and Mr. Vidovic to adopt them would unfortunately not change the situation regarding demining in the Republic of Croatia, and therefore I say here it is always difficult to say no to such an amendment. However, the government will surely find a model of accelerated demining and mine-pollution financing with the Croatian Mine Action Centre this year. Is when you look at the amounts of these amendments, then you will see given the areas polluted by mines in Croatia, an increase of about 60 or 70 million or an increase of 40% compared to the planned means, unfortunately, do not mean much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3298	Representative Ante Kotromanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3299	Dear Minister, we know the problems with demining. Why did we ask for more? Because the capacities of the Republic of Croatia, the capacities of demining companies, are such that they can work from 20 to 50 million kuna from this 20 to 50 million kuna. Here's the problem. They may work until the 6th, 7th, 8th or 9th most if it's a good year and if there's some funds and then they just fit. I'll do it again. We still have about 900 km2 of mine suspected surfaces or surfaces under mines, it's a terribly large area. At this rate, we won't do it in 20 years. There is a national demining programme, according to the national programme, to be completed next year. We simply need to find more resources, more opportunities to give to the Croatian Mine Action Centre, and to bring it down accordingly and to demining Croatia here. I wonder what if a few people are killed this year who will answer for it, who will be responsible? Someone, head of the Mine Action Center private, someone in the government or I don't know who. I ask the Ministers to see and to look at the possibilities for budget rebalancing to be done during this year, to separate at least those funds that would be enough so that these capacities that we have these 500 pyrotechnicians don't have until the end of the year's work. If only in that segment that is very dangerous, which is physically very dangerous, we can allow them to have normal pay by the end of the year. I thank you and ask you to do folklore to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3300	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 389 MPs Dragica Zgrebec and Nadice Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3301	The amendment is practically identical to Mr Maras and Kotromanovic's amendments only differing in amount. Here, a 200 million kuna increase is proposed, and unfortunately with the same explanation as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3302	Representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3303	In fact, it's a good thing that the government and the Minister's speech are seeing this huge problem. I was actually encouraged to write this amendment a television report where in one Banian village in Banovina, only 11 people have been killed in one street in the last few years. They have mines practically in the yard and outside the front door. If we demining one yard, one field for those people is a big deal. I think we should approach this problem more seriously, and given what fate these amendments have, I will withdraw it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3304	Amendment 389 withdrawn. 390 amendments, MP Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3305	My colleague Vidovic had the least proposed increase of 12 million kuna, but unfortunately I repeat, with this amount we cannot solve the problem we are all aware of, but I sincerely hope that over the year we will find a model for... demining financing.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3306	Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3307	Of course, we share all our concerns, but not to repeat everything that my colleagues and colleagues have said. I proposed last year during a debate on the report of the Croatian Mine Action Centre which seems to me too high and which would solve yours as a minister, your government and any future government of this kind of problem and bidding who prefers to demining Croatia. Let's pass a law that would define a fixed percentage. I suggested last year that it be 0.4% of the state budget, and then that would certainly cover what my colleague Kotromanovic is talking about, to hire our capacities and double the time, double the time it takes to deminise. So I didn't ask for any money but once again to warn myself that we're finding a model, this is what my colleague Dragica says, on a daily basis, imagine that we're in a position to play our own kid in the mine environment. These aren't isolated cases. It is too much so that we could simply use it in any way for political or not knowing what other purposes. So I suggest you come up with a model for next year that we don't have this kind of discussion anymore. I'm not asking for a vote, but here, please, and I appeal not to wait...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3308	Thank you. 390 amendments withdrawn. State Air Protection Office, Amendment 391, MP Zdenko Franić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3309	The government does not accept because we believe that the planned funds are sufficient for all of the above activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3310	Representative Zdenko Franić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3311	They may be, but these funds at the National Nuclear Safety Authority of 240,000 kunas are intended for transportation are very large. Namely the State Department for radiation protection, the State Nuclear Security Office are similar institutions with a similar number of employees as much as possible with similar ingenuities. Now they predicted 150 thousand kunas for both transport and telephone costs and mail costs, and these others predicted 240 thousand kunas for transport alone. Well, now I wonder how many more of these are predicting, so let them drive. I suggested that additional resources be advanced, the extent and quality of the systematic examination of ionising radiation and the types and activities of radioactive substances in the environment, because the State Institute for radiation protection in the territory of the Republic of Croatia has far more interventions in view of the taking of protective measures in the event of an extraordinary event such as imports of radioactive steel and which, thanks to that institution before the day or two, was successfully remedied. Now, if these guys need to drive, let them drive, and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3312	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 392 also represented Zdenko Franić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3313	The government does not accept because the planned funds in 2008 are sufficient for those activities, and on how the funds will be distributed, this still brings an internal state radiation protection service rather than a government.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3314	Representative Zdenko Franić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3315	So according to the Law on Protection against ionising radiation and the security of source from radiation, the State Institute for radiation protection is the carrier... protection measures in the event of an emergency. [[You don't understand.]] Now according to this budget, the cost of the extraordinary event is more foreseen by the State Nuclear Safety Institute than by the State Department for radiation protection, which is the holder of these measures as much as possible and has been entrusted to the activities of the State Nuclear Security Office in relation to legislation and legal solutions. I have proposed an amendment that these two institutions have exactly the same items intended for the cost of an extraordinary event, which would simply force the opportunity to increase cooperation between them on joint programmes. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3316	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment to the 2008 draft financial plan of the Croatian Waters, MP Dragica Zgrebec. State Secretary Milivom Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3317	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Government does not accept this amendment. I think that lately you can, so for the last few years you can testify to a multiple increase in investment in the channel network, and the amount of 680 million kuna proposed by the financial plan is consistent with the planned revenue of Croatian waters from the dedicated fees.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3318	Representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3319	Actually, I didn't understand if the amendment wasn't accepted because it was already in itself, just.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3320	The amount is sufficient. I'm allowed to say. So the amount corresponds to the assigned revenue.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3321	And there's a contract in there that concerns you. Thank you very much. Then I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3322	Thank you. Amendment withdrawn. We still have to vote on 28 amendments to the draft financial plan of the Croatian Roads for 2008 and after the vote of these 28 amendments we are going to vote on the State Budget Proposal for 2008. State Secretary Zeljko Tufekčić. Representatives, Goran Beus Richembergh and Tonino Picula, Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3323	Your Honor, Mr. President, honourable MPs and MPs. This amendment is not accepted. In accordance with the Law on Public Roads Rehabilitation, Reconstruction and Construction of County Roads is in the jurisdiction of the County Road Administrations. Following this and the rehabilitation of the county road 31 154 on Velika Kosnica-Crnkovec is not in the jurisdiction of Croatian roads, but in the jurisdiction of the county road administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3324	Representative Tonino Picula.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3325	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. All that Mr. Secretary of State has said is, of course, correct. Just allow it before this amendment is also refused to say that here every time a large transport infrastructure facility is built in Croatia forgets that it can cause certain problems. This is specifically about the construction of the Homeland Bridge that we were so looking forward to, but it has now turned out that especially after the construction of the joint road on this county road, which is covered by increased traffic, which is of course served by residents of Posavina and Sisak in order to shorten the road towards Zagreb, this road is practically led to destruction. The town of Velika Gorica, of course with the County Road Administration, has phased out that county road by the means that we have available, but these remaining four kilometers, which are currently in question, cannot be provided with the necessary resources. We calculated, of course, that also because of the importance of the Homeland Bridge, but also the future roads that would be passing there, that it could possibly help with its financial injection to increase the safety of this county road. Unfortunately, that's not going to happen, and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3326	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the votes he needed. 2nd Amendment of Representative Željko Vincelj.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3327	Just the same. The amendment is not accepted. Explanation as in the previous amendment. Namely building a wooden bridge across the Sutla River... the border crossing... [[Because of the announcement, the speaker does not understand.]] is in the jurisdiction of the County Road Administration. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3328	Representative Željko Vincelj.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3329	I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3330	Amendment withdrawn. The 3rd Amendment is also the representative of Zeljko Vincelj.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3331	The amendment is not accepted. Names indicated... It is planned with a public road construction and maintenance programme for the period 2005-2008 and at the position of other operations programmes on state roads and of a total of 3 units on demand. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A location permit has been issued for one share, and for the others it is in the phase of drawing up a project documentation for the establishment of the location permits.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3332	Representative Željko Vincelj.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3333	I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3334	Thank you. And Amendment 3 is withdrawn. Amendment 4 is also the representative of Zeljko Vincelj.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3335	The amendment is not accepted. The following... is also planned in a public road construction and maintenance programme for the period 2005-2008 and at the position of other State road operations programmes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The first phase of the project documentation was developed, an environmental impact study was carried out on which the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning issued a solution to the consent, acceptability and a competition for the development of projects for the establishment of local and construction permits.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3336	Representative Željko Vincelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3337	So here I must warn of the unsustainable traffic situation in this part of Krapina-Zagorian County. Namely, by closing the collection system in Zabok-Krapina-Macelj area in the 2nd month of 2006 we lost an alternative direction that we could drive without charge on shares from Krapina to Zabok because the existing state road, popularly called Zagorje highway, was built into one lane of built highways. By closing the transport system, we got a beautiful road, but with the most expensive toll, convincingly the most expensive toll in Croatia, and I repeat without any alternative. The state has pledged to build an emergency parallel road of Krapina-Zabok and the announcements were that the construction would be completed in the first half of 2007. Here you are saying today we haven't moved any further than these initial papers. Please get rid of this problem as soon as possible. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3338	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 5th Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3339	The amendment is not accepted. Namely, reconstruction of state roads cannot be done through the position of compounds on highways, but as part of maintenance of state roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3340	Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3341	It doesn't matter if they're going through the interstate circuits, but that jackal bypass is now a connection to the PC corridor. In one part it has been reconstructed, in the other part there are severe damages since this bypass is also used for construction, continuing construction of corridor 5C. But I'd just remind that it's one of the black points in traffic. Since all entrances to the city of Đakovo or intersections towards Nasice, according to Osijek, according to Brod or Strisivina, Vrpolje is unlit and there is no light signalling. By the way, I think Mr. Shakespeare remembers very well that opening. He was somewhere approximately accurate and appreciated the cost of that school pass. At the opening were then Mayor Glavas and Minister Lužavec, who mentioned a figure there where a practical corridor 5C could be built. So in this amount, I'm asking that all these intersections be lit up, to put in a traffic, light signalling, because on that bypass in the past, in the last year, almost 40 car accidents occurred with 5 deaths. And I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3342	Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 6th Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3343	The amendment is not accepted. Namely, the amount of 102 million kuna is planned through a public road construction and maintenance programme for the period 2005-2008 and at the site of a compound on the highway, which includes the stated fast road Split-Dugo Polje and Solin-Klis shares.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3344	Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3345	Your Honor, Mr. President! But the fact is that Split simply has no connection on the highway not only Dubrovnik highway, not only Split but the entire pool from Trogir to Omis. And you just have a freeway, and then the vehicles that come in especially in the summer can't get into town. So my proposal was to build a four-track fast road that was started to work, but now it's standing. And I mean really if it doesn't work out, we're gonna stay there somehow isolated despite the highway. It seems very important to me, and I insist on voting.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3346	Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 5th Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3347	The amendment is not accepted. It is not accepted for the reason that the 2008 financial plan is adopted in accordance with the public road construction and maintenance programme for the period 2004-2008. Next, the proposed project will be considered when drawing up the next medium-term programme for the period 2009-2012.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3348	Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3349	Well, I could say you'd be really happy if that really happened. But in this case, it's about a road that has at least three big reasons to start working right away. The first reason is that whoever went from Zagreb to Sisak knows that Sisak is not getting into Sisak. We have a small narrow bridge which is the only connection with Zagreb. That's the first reason. The other one. That road I'm talking about isn't just a roadway on the highway. She's also the key road to the new business zone we need. And the third reason is to send a message that the highway Zagreb-Sisak or Sisak-Zagreb is indeed planning to build from Sisak to Zagreb. I'm not asking for a vote, but please, eight, twelve, sixteen, it's taking too long. I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3350	Thank you very much. Amendment withdrawn number 7. 8th Representatives Tanja Vrbat and Dina Kozlevec.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3351	The amendment is not accepted. Explanation as in the previous amendment. So the proposed project will be considered when drawing up the next medium-term programme for 2009-2012.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3352	Representative Tanja Vrbat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3353	Thank you for your answer and for your words. I think the mayor of this municipality has already heard this response several times to similar amendments from previous years. Namely, it is a small municipality in Istria known for its ring similar to the one in Sinjska alca, and also known for its two mandates as SDP's chief. The road passes through the very center of the settlement and thus prevents its development. I'm asking for a vote to enter the final agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3354	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 9. MP Ante Kotromanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3355	The amendment is not accepted. As in the previous amendment, with the first phase of the project documentation of this road being made and the same will be taken into consideration when making the next medium-term period.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3356	Representative Ante Kotromanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3357	Well, when we don't have a fast road, we can have a quick vote and nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3358	Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 10th Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3359	The amendment is not accepted. Namely, the fast road Trogir-Omis, part of Split-Omis is planned and started in 2005-2008 at the site of the fast road construction and reconstruction program. The construction will continue for the next medium term.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3360	Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3361	Your Honor! Didn't I hear what time?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3362	The period 2009-2012 will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3363	2009-2012. I mean, it really turns out that we can't connect on the highway from Omis to Split, in the season you travel a couple of hours of those 20 kilometers. This is about a bypass across the Podstrana. Split is located in isolation. I'm glad some other cities get four-way, fast, half-speed roads. I'm really glad he got it from Zadar, a city that I like very much. And that's good. But I wish Split and the whole pool could at least connect on the highway that is so close to him. Here, it started as you say, but my amendment went after it to end, that I just don't feel like Split is being punished for some strange and unfathomable reason, so I'm asking the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3364	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 11th also representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3365	The amendment is accepted. Same as before. The 2008 plan is adopted in accordance with the 2005-2008 construction programme. This project is in the design phase and will be planned in the next medium term.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3366	Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3367	It's about the same theme. It's about the Kozjak tunnel. Namely, there's one knot, it's a wolf's knot just before the Longfield which now seems more or less pointless if it really doesn't penetrate the tunnel through Kozjak which would then be that second exit, one of the exits towards the highway, it would also from Trogir all the way to Omis solve that situation. This is how it turns out that the Vučevica knot is now only going to a village called Dugbabe, which is why I suggest that 80 million kuna be allocated for the production of project documentation and the resolution of property-legal relations. I'm asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3368	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 12th Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3369	The amendment is not accepted. The reasons are the same as for previous amendments, which is that they will be considered when making the next medium-term period, the programme of building a pardon.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3370	Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3371	I am absolutely unsatisfactory with this explanation. Apparently, she's a colleague of the Rocksandic, which is this. I was expecting you to refuse the amendment because it entered the program. All the citizens of Sisak were told that it was all over and that the bridge, its construction began. I'm talking about a bridge without which the city of Sisak cannot develop. That's number one. I'm talking about a bridge that will solve the problem not only of traffic in the city of 50,000 people, but you must know the blackest point in Croatian traffic Strossmayer's street, all traffic towards the Ban goes across one bridge and one road. So far, more than once have the citizens of Sisak and at a meeting of the government held in Sisak been told that the project was finished, the land was bought and the construction was to begin. You are now speaking again 8, 12. That's shocking information to me. And I'm asking for a vote on this amendment. Comrade Roksandic, you will consider explaining to the citizens of Sisak why the amendment is being rejected.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3372	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 13 by Sonja Simunović and Igor Dragovan.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3373	The amendment is not accepted. For this procedure, the first phase of the project documentation is drawn up and will be considered when drawing up the next medium-term programme for the period from 9-12.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3374	Representative Igor Dragovan.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3375	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. This is another proof of the government's concern for Slavonia and Baranja. Some indeed, we did not even seek to build a highway to some port but a road that would ensure the perspective and development of the port of Brod and the economic zone that is in that area. I insist on voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3376	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the votes he needed. 14th Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3377	The amendment is not accepted. The project, which is the completion of the Milna area bypass, will be discussed as part of an existing programme of reconstruction and planning of the roads on the islands at K2006 position.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3378	Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3379	Your Honor, Mr. President. The project is directly connected and conditioned to continue construction of the Milna sewerage system that is under way. Today, Minister Calmeta said when I mentioned the arrangement of the coast, which is actually the only traffic station in Milna, and now because of these works, there it is and she needs to experience an expansion of three metres, said that it is entering the government's programme and that it will be financed. I find it illogical that the government will finance it and will not bypass it because the entire north-west part of Milna remains defacto isolated, the more the municipality of Milna has already set aside 47% of the price of the project, which weighs around 5 million and 700 thousand kuna, and this would cost the government only about 2 million kuna. It really doesn't make any sense to me what you're saying now with what the minister said this morning whether one part of the government has already defacto in its intentions and said it will be funded and this other piece, and one part without the other, is not going to go, now you're saying it won't be funded. So that's why, and because of the illogical explanation, I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3380	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 15th Amendment of Agent Ivan Hanžek.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3381	The amendment is not accepted. The project was planned in a public road construction and maintenance programme for the period 2005-2008 at the position of "Other State Road Programmes" and the project is currently in the phase of obtaining the necessary permits.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3382	Agent Ivan Hanzek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3383	Okay, I'm actually aware of everything because in the pre-election campaign, we also faced this issue and that road. However, I would like to stress that my submission of my amendment is more to speed up these procedures that have started and to update questions to build a full profile of the Oroslavje-Mokrice intersection, there are people from Zagorje who are very sensitive not from Zabok to Bračak Hospital and clearly in the follow-up, meaning that in the full profile they are doing individual shares. It was clear to me already from my colleague Vincelj's amendment to what will be the answer, and given the problems that exist on the existing state roads, the special bridge in Gubaševo, which is ahead of the collapse of Zagorje, could be left without connection to the southern part of Croatia or the capital and with Zagreb. Thank you very much. I'm not asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3384	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 16th Representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3385	The amendment is not accepted. Since the project requested is lower in line with the 2005-2008 Public Road Construction and Maintenance Programme, the project will be considered during the next medium-term construction programme and for the period from 9-12.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3386	Representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3387	I am withdrawing this first part of the amendment because there has been no amendment to the migration of the border crossing, so this section relating to the Mursko Centre bypass. However, the northern bypass of the settlement Nedelisce is actually relying on the detour of the town of Čakovec, although it is one project that was completed in 2004 and no follow-up was made. So there's also a certain project documentation. In fact, this detour of the town of Čakovec would join the border crossing with Slovenia in Trnovec through the northern detour of the settlement Nedeliste. I mean, it's a project that's been going on for seven years and it's weird that Croatian roads don't have it in their plan right now. Please vote for that part of the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3388	Thank you. So we vote for that part of the amendment. Who's up for it? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 17th representative of Sima Lučina.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3389	The amendment is not accepted. The preparation of the construction of the land island bridge of Ciovo is planned with a public road construction and maintenance programme for the period 2005, at the site of other State road operations programmes, so we believe that there is no need to single out in particular.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3390	Mr. Sime Luchin's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3391	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, in 2004, the president, or I'm sorry, Prime Minister Sanader, promised that bridge by 2008. Unfortunately, there's nothing from that bridge. Three years ago, counterpart Nenadic, Minister Kalmeta answered the same thing that you have now responded to me. I've been listening to the same story for two years. I mean, I don't have to explain to you what that bridge means to the people of Ciovo, Trogir, and still. There will be nothing left for me but to propose a similar amendment to the next budget, given that I no longer believe it when it comes to this bridge, but I will refer it to the Ministry of Culture and Mr. Bishop. Because this has nothing to do with traffic and collapse, not in the season but throughout the year, but with the preservation of the old city core in Trogir. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3392	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 18th Amendment of Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3393	The amendment is not accepted. The proposed procedure is the first phase of the project documentation and will be included in the next medium-term public road construction and maintenance programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3394	Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3395	Mr. Vice President, when is this the next medium term?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3396	Nine, twelve.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3397	Okay. I can be pleased that it's gotten into that. Namely, this one, Preradovic, and Pavić's street. So it's a state road that connects Đakovo and Vinkovce, and at the same time it's coming down from that famous school pass. I would only remind and ask when this project is being done which is connected to this street to immediately and illuminate the entrance to Đakovo, given that the city has lighted up to the area of this intersection because we have failed to get the consent of the same Croatian roads to light up that entrance to Đakovo, i.e. the merger of Preradović, i.e. the state road D46 and the student roads. Since I know how much paperwork needs to be made, I suggest it immediately so that it doesn't happen. People's events since there's also shooting houses, that citizens are pretty upset. You can laugh. Since there are heavy burdens, because it's a state road and it's not funny to listen to citizens' complaints every day. I suggest that immediately in this procedure and prepare these documents to remove the entire layer since it is concrete cubes and all those who had eventually proved lucky that family members or they themselves had to go to that so-called. The temporary work in Germany could see it on the highway Hitler built between Berlin and Nunberg. I'm staying on the amendment and I'm asking for a part to be included in the Croatian Road program this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3398	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 19th representative of Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3399	The amendment is not accepted and is not accepted for the reason why the planned amount is EUR 240 million for co-financing of the County Road Administrations defined by the Public Road Construction and Maintenance Programme for the period 2005, 2008. So, every year, the County Road Authority transfers 240 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3400	Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3401	To see the assistant minister. It's about the next one. When something is made in this House, therefore some decision, law, and the Government of Croatia's programme commits it to action. First of all, he should oblige the Government of the Republic of Croatia to respect him, and in this programme the Government on page 26 and 25 makes it very clear that there will be a redistribution of funds in favour of the County Road Administrations in such a way that they receive at least 70% more from the Croatian Roads budget at the annual level. So, two weeks ago, we adopted this document called the Government Programme, and now you're explaining to us that there's a program for some company out there that completely ignores this government program. I ask that this amendment be voted on because this amendment is the implementation of a government programme that has become mandatory for the government for all public enterprises, for all institutions and for all MPs. Therefore, do not ignore what has been brought into the House. That's both. Two hundred and forty thousand kunas of the County Road Administration have been given since 2004 and are scheduled to receive budget projections by 2012. It has nothing to do with decentralisation, it has nothing to do with the government's program. It has nothing to do with coalition agreements. County roads are in catastrophic condition. Everything else is increasing, only the transfer to county roads does not increase, although it is earning much more from those 060 in the price of gasoline. I'm asking to vote on this, to see if the MPs sitting in this House are ready to respect the government program that we voted on or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3402	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 20, my dear dear Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3403	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment cannot be accepted for reasons why the reconstruction of roads does not fall under the programme of regular maintenance.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3404	Representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3405	To provide funds for the reconstruction of part of the state road D20, which passes through the settlement Nedeliste, in the position of regular road maintenance. There's already a building permit. A public procurement procedure has been carried out, and the municipality has secured in the budget its share of 20% of the funds related to the local part, so I ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3406	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 21 Representatives of Nenad Stazic and Josip Lek, Bruno Kurelic and Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3407	The amendment is not accepted. Namely, the reconstruction of the county roads and this road 1042 construction of the legpost with disposal is in the jurisdiction of the county road administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3408	Representative Bruno Kurelić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3409	But just a few words. It is about the reconstruction of the county road in the municipality of Draganic in Karlovac County, the construction of the legposts with disposal. What is important for the realization of this project is that this road is essentially an old Zagreb-Carlovac road road and that over the summer it has a strong function of its own especially in tourism. The municipality of Draganic cannot finance this with its modest budget. The Carlovakia County and the experiences in that part where you spoke were minor in terms of financial resources, so the project will remain unrealised and I stress that this is a functional part of it, means a road that has far greater meaning than the county road, and on the basis of this amendment, which we have proposed to put to a vote on the position and in the sum provided for in this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3410	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 22 representatives of the Golden Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3411	The amendment is not accepted. The interpretation is the same as in the previous amendment. Namely building an underpass in... in Varazdin is in charge of the County Administration of Roads and the City of Varazdin. [[You don't understand because of the announcement.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3412	Representative Zlatko Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3413	Mr. Vice President, since this is one of the few amendments that have not been accepted today, I ask the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3414	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 23 Dragica Zgrebec and Agent Daniel Mondekar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3415	The amendment is not accepted. The interpretation is the same as in the previous amendment. County road Sisak -... Jasenovac is in charge of the County Road Administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3416	Agent Daniel Mondekar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3417	This is about the county road connecting the centre of the county with Jasenovac. What is important is that the road has a tourist character, goes along the Lonjsko polje. Enough is damaged, and by restoring this road we can help to further capitalise Lonjsko polje as a tourist cultural capital of Croatia and therefore ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3418	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 24th Amendment of MP Dragica Zgrebec, and the prisoner of Daniel Mondekar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3419	The amendment is not accepted. As in the previous amendment for the requested road, the County Road Administration is responsible.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3420	Agent Daniel Mondekar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3421	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. This is about the road that paid the highway tax due to the quarry, driving the heavy load of roads is damaged and I also ask the vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3422	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Also 25 representatives of Daniel Mondekhar and representative of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3423	The amendment is not accepted. The interpretation is the same as in the previous amendment. The County Road Administration is in charge.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3424	Agent Daniel Mondekar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3425	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. So this is about two roads, one that enters Sisak-Moslavina County from Zagreb County and moves almost towards Brod-Posavina. The other one that connects those two counties. It is vital economic roads in this area which are also parallel highway roads and I only remind the ruling majority that the renewal of these two roads was supported by the Government of the Republic of Croatia at its meeting on 26 October 2006. Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3426	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 26 Advocacy Secret Vrbat and Representative Dino Kozlevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3427	The amendment is not accepted. The reconstruction of the 5002 County Road is in the jurisdiction of the County Road Administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3428	Representative Tanja Vrbat.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3429	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State you know very well that the County Road Administration does not have enough money for this road, and that is the very entry into the Republic of Croatia. Namely, the road ends the famous Istrian Ipslon and connects the border crossings of Plovdiv and Kaštel with cities on the Istrian coast and continues with the Republic of Croatia. I don't know what tourists think when they pass that roadway, I guess they think they came in some kind of steam... so it's some kind of extra content touristic. They may have gone to the most luxurious hotel on the Croatian coast, built on the road, on the road. So I think it's better if that road is financed and we don't embarrass our country and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3430	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 27 also representative Tanja Vrbat and representative Dino Kozlevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3431	The amendment is not accepted. The explanation is the same as in the previous amendment. For the county road 5003 is responsible for the County Road Administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3432	Representative Tanja Vrbat.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3433	Secretary of State thank you for your response and my explanation is the same as the previous amendment, it is about the continuation of that road, in the other direction, also from the border crossings. So I'm still asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3434	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. And last amendment, honourable representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3435	The amendment is not accepted. Namely, the reconstruction of the Street of Ban Jelačić is in the jurisdiction of the County Road and City Administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3436	Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3437	It is a former state road that has become a county road through this Parliament's decision, and has been returned to ZUC's jurisdiction in an extremely poor condition. Given this position, co-financing of ZUC, I don't see any reason why it exists if all the county roads are rejected. Otherwise, here at the end of the 420 amendments, none of them have passed, so I would now call on HDZ representatives before the budget is voted at least to exercise their hand as it is to vote for, and to accept this budget. Otherwise, until '90. So in the darkness of socialism Đakovo did not receive any funds because it was always treated as Croatia not to say the right city. Never east, ever since '90. By 2008, you can correct yourself, by 2008, also very little funds go to the city of Đakovo. Which is why Đakov is no red in power but Croats and Croatian citizens, so I would ask you at least to consider these amendments that I have instructed to be well considered and put into the programmes during the next medium term. Otherwise. Mr. Matosic, there are more members of the party in HDZ than there are in the SDP. Check that out. By the way, I think this budget's been long enough. I'll be done now. I can't vote for him, it has nothing to do with the bile now, since this budget is going towards further centralisation of Croatia, no decentralisation. Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3438	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. There is a vote on amendments to the National Budget Proposal and the financial plans have been completed. It is now due to approach the vote on the proposal for the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008. President of the HDZ Representatives Club Andri Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3439	Mr. President, we're proposing a hand-to-hand vote for all points of the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3440	We vote manually. So, I am voting on the proposal for the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. I find that most votes with 81 votes, 48 against the adoption of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008 are in the text as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted. [[Applause.]] In accordance with Article 24. I am giving the budget law to the vote of the Decision on granting consent to the financial plan of the Croatian Waters for 2008. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. I find that with 81 for, 48 against and one abstention, the proposed decision is made.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3448	Final proposal of the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008, second reading, P.Z. No. 11. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 174. The Rules of Procedure, together with the National Budget Proposal, have tabled the Final Proposal for the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, Finance and the State Budget for the Economy,... maritime, traffic and connections. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And some other committees. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? No, I don't. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić. No more debates. I'm closing the debate. We'll continue the session tomorrow at 10:30. For the necessary rest, I thank you all for your perseverance. I thank you for your consistency to sit in the House until the end. Oh, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3449	Final proposal of the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008. The debate is over. The amendment was submitted by MP Zvonimir Mršić. I'd like the draft law of Minister of Finance Ivan Shucker to show up on the amendments. Amendment 1 to Mrsic's First Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3450	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The government does not accept the amendment because we believe that there is a need to remain a decision which cumulatively regulates how many units of local self-government can be in debt. Since 50 of the largest units of local self-government participates in the consolidated budget of the Republic of Croatia and this proposed deficit for 2008 of 2.3%, 0.3% is waste on local self-government units. And we therefore believe that the decision to be in charge should remain cumulatively in law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3451	Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3452	So I've suggested that we clear the limit that by this year the government can give about 350 million kuna approvals for the borrowing of local self-government units. Or I suggest that all units of local self-government that meet the conditions, which means they have the capacity to be in charge that the government must give them consent to their duties. Since there are no criteria by which the Government chooses which of those who have the criteria will be given the responsibility and who do not, then there remains that space of political discretion for some to be given, and some simply do not, which eventually happened in the past. And these 350 million kunas are not enough for a few big cities to apply for borrowing and to be granted to them, and that everyone else can't do that. If 50 big cities go into a consolidated budget then let's say this applies to those 50 big ones. And the others who do not enter the consolidated may be freely in debt. I think this seriously violates the Charter of Local Self-Government. And that's why I'm asking for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3453	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 2. also representative of Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3454	The government does not accept for a reason, given the time limit on which the Agency should collect a number of opinions. We believe that the deadline of 60 days is an appropriate deadline, the deadline for the delivery of the notice on whether the local self-government unit can go into a public private partnership project. We believe that the 30-day deadline proposed by the amendment is too short. And that's why we don't accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3455	Representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3456	I'm afraid we didn't get along. So I've asked that the number, the 60-day term, be replaced by 30 days where the government has to lay down a rulebook. Otherwise, the Government put the deadline of 60 days to itself in the State Budget Implementation Act, which means that to date these laws should have already been passed. Because that provision also stood in that law on the implementation of the state budget in July. So these rules should already exist. You're giving them back now. But I am simply here in this amendment harmonising Article 16 with the guidelines on the public private partnership adopted by this Parliament. We said there exactly that the Investment and Export Promotion Agency will work, be the credit rating agency that will give agreement to the contracts and will do so within 30 days. So I am only from the guidelines adopted by this Croatian Parliament to write this amendment and put into the Law on the implementation of the state budget. The law on the implementation of the state budget defines the granting of consent to a public private partnership rather than the guidelines of the Croatian Parliament. That's why I'm asking to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3457	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 3rd Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3458	The government does not accept and considers that the proposed amount is in line with national population policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3459	Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3460	So, with the 3rd amendment, I have proposed that maternity benefits be devoid in the other six months, i.e. I propose that it be up to the average salary paid in the previous year in the Republic of Croatia. I think mothers are seriously deprived in the other six months because they are being denied the return of their contributions that they pay because those who have higher salaries and pay more contributions to the Health Insurance Fund and thus are being defactoly stimulated or forced to go to work after six months of maternity leave which I don't think is good for either the child or the mother. I ask that this amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3461	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 4th Amendment of Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3462	The government does not accept for a simple reason because, let's say, if we accepted this amendment, it means that from tomorrow, Croatian shipbuilding could not be guaranteed by the Croatian state. Therefore, it is something simple that we cannot and cannot allow because at this time Croatian shipbuilding is receiving more than 70% of the total guarantees that the state issues and by adopting this amendment Croatian shipbuilding could not obtain guarantees from the state for projects it is working on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3463	Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3464	Therefore, my amendment does not refer to Croatian shipbuilding but refers to the provision of guarantees and Croatian shipbuilding falls under the law on state incentives that very restrictively defines how and where it can be given incentives and guarantees fall under incentives. So it doesn't matter for a long time. I really think that companies operating with loss should not receive a state guarantee or that the state should not give them a guarantee. I ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3465	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 5th Amendment of Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3466	The government does not accept because all other conditions on how to restore value added tax as for each year and in 2008 will be prescribed by the Ministry of Finance within 30 days. This is specifically to explain the return of sales tax to voluntary fire companies, professional fire departments for the purchase of fire-fighting equipment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3467	Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3468	If I understand for 30 days, you will make the decision. If you want, I'll take it back.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3469	Amendment withdrawn. 6th Amendment of Mršić's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3470	The government does not accept the reason why tax system reforms from 93 years of return on income are made out of the means of those who receive these funds and change, in fact by the Law on the implementation of the state budget, and thus is provided for by this law except for units of local self-government in the area of special state care of mountain and mountain areas where the return of income tax and income tax is carried out on the burden of the state budget. Therefore, this would mean that practically somewhere around a billion 400, a billion of the funds that have been received by units of local self-government more because citizens are looking for a refund on those funds would not return from the budget of those who have been coming in but should return from the budget of those who did not. But speaking of this decentralisation project, then the question is which functions should be decentralized for these billions of 300, billion, 400 million.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3471	Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3472	Let's say building schools could work out of that. But speaking of which, it would have been good if you had followed that principle last year when I suggested the same thing to you, when I said that local self-government in 2007 would pay back the income tax of what the state was earning in 2006. That principle was not acceptable to you at the time. Therefore, it is obvious that by applying the new Income and Profit Tax Act last year, the state made 2 billion kuna more than it would have earned if the old law had remained in force and that there was in fact further centralisation of funds, tax funds in the Republic of Croatia compared to this. This only settles the whole story a little bit in a way that we can all be equal, i.e. for all units of local self-government to return income tax because the units of local self-government have not decided who and what tax relief they will give to. So they just do what someone else decided. I think it is not correct because under the European Charter of Local Self-Government of the Local Self-Government Unit, local self-government would have to be able to dispose of its incomes and expenditures on its own and, in this way, by law, they are forced to return the income tax. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3473	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. And the 7th Amendment of Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3474	The government does not accept for a simple reason because we believe that entrepreneurs who for legitimate reasons are in difficulty and at that time cannot comply with their public obligations with certain guarantees and with certain projects to be delivered may be given a delay in paying those payments for the maximum period of ten months, with them being normally strained by interest as well as in the case where they have failed to meet their obligations, only that they will not be subject to the blockage of the gyro-account. I must say, no matter how much this provision has been attacked in the first year, that only a few of these delays are given annually, and in exceptional cases, and in principle, a guarantee is always sought from those who seek such a postponement that these obligations will be met. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3475	Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3476	Well, of course I don't agree with the minister because I think that's how the equality of competition is violated. Someone can get a tax postponement and someone just can't get it. There are no clear criteria again who can and can't do it, and under the General Tax Law, you know who, how, and how, and how, you have to pay taxes. If someone cannot pay, then they must be in an equal position with those who must do so. It is obvious that some in this Croatia have to pay taxes, have to be regular and some do not have to pay and are not regular in this. I ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-27-0.u3477	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on the final draft law implementing the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? With 81 votes for and 48 against the adoption of the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008.
