ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12565	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. It was exactly half a year ago, half a year ago, and this is the time to re-analyze economic movements and economic policy based on current achievements and circumstances. And exactly the budget is the best motive to do this, because it is a reflection of both the strategic objectives and the government policy, and so today I address you first, and then the finance minister to explain the budget rebalance for 2008. At first, I would like to point out that this year's rebalancing is being brought in changed terms of international business, an international environment marked by a high rise in oil prices, food and other raw materials. The price of oil, ladies and gentlemen, as you know in Croatia has already reached a level and has passed at a certain point of $140 per barrel, and only three years ago it was at $40 per barrel. With high price increases, the world economy is at risk of a financial crisis whose negative effects are reflected in the economic growth of the world's largest economies. We are all aware that such movements are reflected in a particular section and must reflect on small or medium-sized economies such as Croatia. I must especially point out that the Government is very serious about these issues, and I want to thank all coalition partners in the government and in the Parliament where we are faced with challenges that have not been there so far. In the '90s, there were other challenges, perhaps even more difficult, absolutely more difficult, the challenges of preserving our independence and just gaining freedom, liberating our territories. Today there are these challenges, but we are not here and we don't need to cry too much because we are not the only ones, the whole of Europe is facing the whole world with the same problems. So every day we monitor movements in the macroeconomic environment and analyze them to be ready to react. However, I would like to stress this, that despite these unfavourable circumstances in the environment and the influences that economic activity in Croatia is extremely important and good news that economic activity in Croatia is growing. This suggests an economic growth of over 4% in the first quarter, namely 4.3% but also an increase in industrial production of 306% in the first five months and a rise in construction activity of as much as 13.1%) in the first four months. The continued growth of economic activity has also been followed by a reduction in unemployment. At the end of May, the number of registered unemployed persons on an annual basis was reduced by more than 30,000 or 11.6%. So if we take May 2007 and May 2008 then in Croatia, registered unemployed persons are less than 30,000. These movements also resulted in a better collection of revenue from the budget. The trend that we started four years ago continues in 2008 as well, and this is the growth of income more and more than when it comes to comparisons with last year. Therefore, the rebalancing of income increases by 2 and a half billion kuna, which is now 118, if the Parliament accepts this rebalancing, 118 billion and 400 million kuna. And this increase in income through rebalancing we want to carefully and carefully focus on programmes that primarily encourage further growth in the economy, but also reduce the impact of global movements that I just touched on our citizens' standard of living. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament, the government is primarily responsible for its citizens who have given it confidence. It is responsible to provide citizens with a decent and quality standard of living in the contexts and legalitys of the market economy. It is therefore important to identify and face, as I said earlier, with challenges and find answers in the right way, and for the benefit of all citizens of our country of Croatia. I will be quite open and say that the biggest challenge we face today is the rise in prices in Croatia. However, since this is not just as I mentioned earlier only the specificity of Croatia but also the whole environment, Europe and the world, it cannot amnesty us because we are all together in the same ship, but we cannot practice it. That is why we need to say that we are focused on solving this problem and solving this problem, because it will not be a solution but a solution, meaning a permanent verb. And in short, I'll say what measures we've taken, some short-term, some long-term to make it easier for the citizens to take the current situation. The rebalance of this year's budget that we present to you today provides 600 million kuna of support, i.e. 600 million kuna for the introduction of structural support to the population and the economy to reduce the impact of energy prices. The share of this amount of 600 million kuna was used to avoid an increase in electricity prices for less-expensive households. It is precisely the point of this fight against price growth with a long-term impact of careful and efficient consumption. I'm sure the world is turning too, and then Croatia must also go to alternative sources of energy. This started early due to climate change, but rising prices will speed up the process and Croatia must join the process. A new era has come in which responsibility for the environment and natural resources at the very top of global political priorities, but the same with these environmental priorities is also the availability of energy to everyone, that is the constitutional category in Croatia, so the fight for, against this great rise in energy prices and food. We do not have to, therefore, lead, nor can we lead any isolated policy we must be part of all these movements and I want to say here that our resolution ministers participate very actively in all the meetings organised by the European Union, when it comes to these very problems which address issues from alternative energy, renewable energy sources to the preservation of the environment. When I mentioned these 600 million structural support, we should also say that we have increased the personal base deduction from a thousand and 600 to a thousand and 800 kuna. Thus, the state gave up part of tax revenues to increase citizens' standards and further mitigate the impact of price growth. A decision on intervention support was taken for farmers and fishermen, blue diesel users, who are scheduled to settle the difference between the retail price of blue diesel and 5 kuna per litre from 1 July of this year and by 1 January 2009. In addition to the short-term measures taken by the government at the same time, it is also working on long-term measures to curb inflation. The monetary and fiscal policy will, by complementary action, reduce inflationary pressures and maintain price stability and generally macroeconomic stability. The macroeconomic stability, ladies and gentlemen has just been the main feature of our economy in the last few years, and I assure you that it will be, or we will do everything in our power as executive authorities to do so. As the most important measure of curbing inflation over the long term, I would particularly point out the continuation of structural reforms, which will result in a reduction in inflation through increasing the efficiency of the Croatian economy. Of course, except for measures, but before I go any further and on this occasion I'll say what I said several times, it was in my opinion unnecessary debate, although it can be said that no debate is ever unnecessary and excessive, it's always good to hear the arguments, but I'm afraid that every little time the focus is over and the attempt to impose the subject of the kuna devalued or to go into the depreciation of the kuna, it's not good. We're '93. Initiating that one economic reform, we remember all of it during the Valentiæ government and this macroeconomic stability which then started and which then began, was also held during the war and I see no reason not to hold it today. Therefore, any, any other policy, other than the one run by the Croatian National Bank, which is absolutely independent and according to all laws, by the Constitution, by all laws, has the right to its own policy, but we have the right to comment as well. We from the government support such a policy. So we can't be for the depreciation of the kuna, we think it would be catastrophic, we all remember something a little older, the younger won't remember it, but we all remember in the 1980s when inflation in the former state of Yugoslavia went up from month to month and when the tasks of self-service employees were just that every three days beautiful new prices for milk and other products. Therefore, we cannot allow such relations, so full support to the Croatian People's Bank for such a macroeconomic policy, and the government will contribute to its fiscal policy, contribute to macroeconomic stability. Of course, in addition to these measures stemming from the current situation, we plan to use the extra income for various programmes to further increase the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. With this rebalancing for industrial development support programmes, we will allocate an additional 138 million kuna and 200 million kuna for regional development programmes, mostly for investment in areas of special state care and development of local units, and for the development of a water supply system. We also provide an additional 32 million kuna for further enhanced tourism development. Encouraging knowledge of the excellence of Croatian society has been continued among the important priorities of this government. Why, from year to year in budget, the funds increase practically by more than 10%, and we can be proud of that, and if we want a knowledge society, then it's the only possible way, so it increases annually. This year in rebalancing with what we planned in the budget, we give another 334 million kuna to the sector. Furthermore, for the modernisation of the judicial system, which directly affects the creation of a more favourable business environment and the greater legal certainty of citizens, we have foreseen an additional 50 million kuna. Of course, we will continue to address debt issues in healthcare, but also create conditions for the better and more efficient functioning of this important segment of our society. The rebalance stands out, and that's another special sector I left it practically for the end. A billion kuna is allocated to hospital obligations and an additional 400 million kuna for other HZZO expenditures. Ladies and gentlemen, given all this I've been talking about, the total expenditures have been increased by 2 billion and 800 million kuna, and they are 121 billion kunas. This results in the total deficit of the state budget being planned in terms of 2.8 billion kuna or converted into a percentage of 1.3%, and that is the deficit we propose by the end of the year, and I must say that in these circumstances we can really be satisfied with this development and the resolution of public finances. In the end, I want to highlight another newspaper, which I propose in this rebalancing. For the first time in this rebalancing for 2008 we are using the coverage of the general government in line with the recommendations of the European public finance statistics methodology ESA 95. It also puts emphasis on the correct coverage of the state sector, as well as other institutional units. For this rebalancing, the most significant change that the HAC is no longer covered by the general government, and the introduction and recommendation and alignment with the ESA 95 methodology, we continue our path towards further harmonisation with the regulations and practice of the European Union. The fiscal deficit for 2008, according to this European methodology, therefore, is what I just said 1.3% earlier, which is 0.3% less than was planned for the 2008 budget to say local self-government and extra- budget funds. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, Croatia's representatives are moving towards a safe step forward, towards the European future. There are challenges on every road, there are problems, there are difficulties, we are aware of them, we are not reducing them, but we are not exaggerating them, and in particular we are not afraid of these problems and these challenges. As well as the current situation and allow only two sentences on the current situation, since these days the topic is... a referendum and reactions from Europe primarily from the chairman, the European Union of French President Sarkozy, but some other statesmen have raised the interest of the Croatian public and I welcome this interest and we are certainly all together concerned about why there is no and why there is no unanimity about the Lisbon Treaty. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, I am convinced that the European Union will find a solution and solve and let us take this Irish, allegedly, or under quotes, an "Irrian problem", but also other problems that will eventually be found the question of the request of the Czech Senate that the Constitutional Court of the Czech Republic should assess the compatibility of the Lisbon Treaty with the Czech Constitution or the issue of promotion of the Polish President of the Law on the ratification of the Lisbon Treaty. Personally, I have no doubt that Europe will find a solution, I am sure that Ireland wants Croatia in the European Union, it is up to us and we will continue and you have heard these days the government has fulfilled everything that Barroso and I agreed on in March, and that is to meet all the criteria for opening the chapters by the end of June. We have done this, we expect the French Presidency to have a new Intergovernmental Conference, the first one for its chairmanship, but an extraordinary intergovernmental conference opening new chapters in the negotiations with Croatia and in which a few chapters would be closed. That is what we are working on, we will continue to drive when it comes to the European objective of our path and European membership, we will continue to drive at the fifth speed. I thank the Croatian Parliament and this side of the Parliament and the opposition for their constructive proposals and constructive debate, in particular the national consensus on the issue of NATO and the European Union entry. But to get back on this subject, here's how much I said. I'm asking the Minister of Finance to brief further on the rebalancing report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12566	Thank you very much to the Prime Minister, Mr. Minister Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12567	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, here you have a budget rebalance, a budget rebalance that may never have been made in such difficult conditions as it is today because Croatia cannot be excluded from the global movements and environments in which it is located. And allow me, given that the Prime Minister is Dr. Ivo Sanader told the biggest part of what these topics are and what we want to achieve with this budget rebalance, to look at certain dilemmas that were when this budget was drawn up and also at certain recommendations should do this or should do that. Let's not just say that the price of energy is something that initiates and is the main cause of inflation. There is also a major crisis on the international financial market, and it has changed the borrowing and the cost of borrowing. Why am I saying that? So that's what I'm saying because definitely at this point the government's policy has been confirmed since 2004 on a solid fiscal policy and policy that seeks to balance the state budget and reduce the deficit to practically zero percent. Because if we hadn't done that, if the deficit had increased today, financing that deficit would have been extremely expensive. Likewise, when some suggest that certain tax rates should be reduced, that should be said to the Croatian public as much as they are. One percentage VAT reduction band is a billion and 600 million kuna less in the state budget. One elemental question arises from where to make up for it. Or the deficit that is at the moment extremely expensive because the price of capital on the global financial market is very high and plus, with this increased deficit, you send an extremely negative message to the international financial public and also to the local. Because trust me when I talk to domestic financial experts, leaders and our central banks, and also our commercial banks, it's always the first question of the minister and what kind of deficit you're proposing. That's the question, and when you make a budget, that's the question now. And let me say something here in front of this High House. And that's a change of methodology. We acquired the conditions for changing the methodology at the moment we ended up standing by arrangement. The modified methodology was signed with the IMF in 2001. And since then, it hasn't changed, no matter what anyone says it was one way or another, that methodology hasn't changed since 2001. Now 95 is the statistics of public finances as used by all members of the European Union. For three years now, together with our pre-accession economic programme, we have also sent a fiscal report and for three years we have had to work in parallel with the methodology modified by us and also because of comparisons with other European countries and with the methodology... 95th we did not want to do this in 2007 for a simple reason, we were in the election year and it would be neither correct nor fair, nor against opposition, nor towards the Croatian public to go with a change of methodology that some things could not be compared. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This was also the reason why we worked on the old methodology and calculated the budget deficit or ran the public finances statistics as you wish, when we proposed the 2008 budget. So, in the light of this budget, we've cited what the deficit would be by the old methodology, what is the deficit by the new methodology. And you'll see that because of the different way of calculating and recording individual incomes of expenditure, both different for the central state, so different for local self-government units. Because the units of local self-government according to this new methodology have a deficit of 0.1% and according to the old methodology they had a deficit of 0.3%. Why would you suggest that the HAC leave the consolidated state balance tomorrow? So for the simple reason of the moment when a stand by arrangement in 2001 wanted to limit consumption and thus insisted that HAC enter the consolidated balance sheet at that time. But at that point we didn't even have a highway to Split, we didn't even have a complete highway from Zagreb to Bregana and there from Brod to Bajakov. Today, HAC is one company that operates on all market conditions, has over 50% of its own income and has no need to be in a consolidated state balance sheet. And to be counterargument to those who will say that is not the case, Croatian roads have remained in a consolidated balance sheet. You know why? For the simple reason that they do not have their own income but their incomes are exclusively linked to budget revenues and to some other fees that pay both Croatian citizens and businesses. So this is an attempt to explain that ESO 95 is nothing more than you gentlemen have done in the past 4 months, and that is to adopt a series of laws to comply with EU legislation. That is how ESO 95 methodologies used by all members of the European Union are also used. But so that we don't want to change anything or anything so that we don't let the Croatian public know I'm here to say it openly. The old model deficit would be 2%. The new model deficit is 1.3%. The deficit of the consolidated state would be 1, actually, according to the old model, the central state would be 1.3 according to the old model. According to the new model, it's 0.9%. If you also look at what the funds are aimed at, i.e. The surplus revenue of the state budget then you will see that it has tried to help in areas where it is most needed at the moment, but at the same time over half a billion kuna is also focused on the economy, incentives, subsidies to the Croatian economy. Also when we talk about reducing certain taxes, it can be charged with some new taxes. Then look at the basic question, what is the stock price on the Zagreb Stock Exchange today, and what was it a few months ago. And the automatic answer to all those who talk about collecting some big money from the capital gains tax, and that's where the calculation base would very much be reduced. Because you can't say that shares of both INA and HT and some other companies aren't much lower today than they were at the beginning of this year or at the end of last year. Well, then it's easy to say easy, so let's get this tax in and then we'll be able to cut this tax. It just doesn't stand. When you put the math on then you'll see what's true? Also, with one already structural support, we started from 1.7. This is subsidising the price of electricity to Croatian citizenship. Since we do not have any instruments to establish at this time the right social map of any Croatian citizen, we have therefore gone with the Proposal for a Law on Personal Identification Number the only instrument by which we will be able to fight corruption in quality and also have a final social map of Croatian citizens and therefore lead to social policy. We've been going through the only methodology that has some kind of reference size at this point so that you can say on that basis these are the most endangered, let's help them. And that's electricity consumption. So let's not keep our eyes closed in front of life facts. Let's go when we talk about fiscal aid policy, get down to real life and say that's it. Well, isn't it true that unfortunately those who have the least consumers in their apartment have? It's a logical thing. And another thing. The data was not invented by either the Ministry of Finance or the Ministry of Economy. We got them from HEP and the normal thing is that in the next period of the 950 thousand that are currently registered to spend under 2,000 kilowatt hours a year we will try and on the basis of tax administration records and on the basis of some other records to exclude those who, and there are also counting weekend houses and a series of other housing or garage facilities that do not belong to that category. But that's what we're gonna do. In the next month, two days we'll do it maximum. But it is estimated that over 40% of the most endangered citizens of the Republic of Croatia or households that you will not feel the accumulation of electricity the same way as they will not feel the accumulation if it happens eventually by another energy source and that is why we are proposing these 600 million right now. When we talked about these 600 million a month ago, then many laughed and said, "Here's the government again promises something, and it won't do it." That's a confirmation of what we said a month ago when we claimed that reducing excise duties might be working on a week or two or until the first gathering, and that's the thing that goes the most in favor of those who have the most. Because we can't also deny a single fact of life that one who has little and little rides a little and unfortunately spends a little. We should also be publicly told at this point we have a tourist season ahead of us. It comes to Croatia for over a million if not two tourist vehicles. Why would they drive on subsidized fuel? Or why someone who drives a few million-dollar yacht could once pour a thousand and a half thousand gallons of gasoline into subsidized gasoline. Any non-selective support is not good. And in order to have selective support, you must have relevant indicators. I also want to thank all clubs on this occasion both the ruling and the opposition to the Law for introducing a personal identification number because it is something that some governments have tried before us, but it is something that will enable us on one hand to lead a very high quality social policy and it is also something that will allow us to further affect the grey economy. In the end, let me say something. It is often heard that the result of a higher charge of the state budget is exclusively due to inflation. That's just not true. The mathematically sum up how real economic growth is, how much inflation is, how much budget income is increased, and you'll see that's not because you have another negative effect on inflation and with the price increase of the most vulnerable group unfortunately start and spend less. So, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that the proposal for this rebalance of the state budget is the most realistic thing that could be spent right now is a proposal. Conscious of the facts of the situation and in Croatian health care, aware of the facts and conditions in Croatian shipbuilding, aware of the fact that certain social groups in Croatia are falling standard, so these measures also suggest assistance to the Croatian economy. These measures also propose assistance to Croatian health care, and these measures also propose to help the most vulnerable groups of Croatian society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12568	Thank you very much. We have corrections to incorrect allegations. First is Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12569	It is incorrect that some, some irresponsiblely suggest a VAT reduction. That's never been suggested by any of them. That's what he suggested and even promised HDZ. Prime Minister Sanader specifically wrote in his guarantee card. In your last term, you claimed you couldn't do it because of the poor legacy of Racan's government. And now you probably don't have any other excuse left than to say that you can't do it for the poor work of Sanader's government in the last term.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12570	Thank you. Correction Mr. Zavodnik Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12571	I'd like to correct two allegations from the minister. First of all, this is not due to inflation, the increase in budget revenues. So more than a billion and 300 kunas are growing income from VAT. This is certainly not because of economic activity, but because of the increase in product prices, and thus the calculation of VAT, and otherwise this year the VAT will increase by 5 billion kuna compared to the realisation of VAT in the last year. So this year the prices, VAT on prices, are only going to go up to 5 billion. And secondly, as far as the stock market index is concerned, so a year ago the stock index was 3271 points. He's 3527 today. So, quite certainly, compared to the last rebalancing situation, the stock prices on average increased at least 10% on the Zagreb Stock Exchange.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12572	Thank you. A few announcements from the ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. The session of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals will be held today at 14.00 am in the Chamber of Ivan Kukuljevic. The meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development will be held today at 13:30 in the hall of Stjepan Radić. 11th session of the Committee for Local and Regional, Regional Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament will be held on 3 July, so Thursday, not Wednesday at 13:30 in the Hall of Eugen Quaternika, 233. And the 8th session of the Environment Protection Committee will be held today on July 3rd, Thursday at 11.30 p.m. The maintenance site remains unchanged. And another one. The session of the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership will be held today at 13:30 in the hall of Janko Draskovic, 202. The committees, the committee's report. Please, the chairman of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12573	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, honourable ministers in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. At the 12th session held on 2 July 2008, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed the amendment and addition of the State Budget for 2008 to the President of the Croatian Parliament by means of an act of 30 June 2008. Financial and State Budget Committee of the Croatian Parliament on the basis of its competence as referred to in Article 65. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the amendment and addition of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008 as a home working body. The Committee's discussion highlights the Committee's view that the proposed support to the population and the economy of 600 million kuna will not achieve the expected effects, as subsidising the increase in electricity prices in the proposed way as well as the increase in the non-taxable share of income will not significantly affect the increase in the standards of particularly those categories of low-income residents. It has also been warned that subsidisation of hospital obligations of one billion kuna and 400 million kuna intended for other HZZO expenditures is not the right way to resolve healthcare as a whole unless concrete reforms in health care are implemented. In view of the views raised in the discussion on the board, the opinion prevailed that the planned increase in value added tax revenue of 1.3 billion kuna is not only due to price growth and better, but also to better collection of tax revenues by state institutions, and to the prevention of tax ejaculation. In addition, support for the population and the economy for which 600 million kuna is provided is currently well targeted and serve to mitigate the decline of population standards. The proposed health subsidisation is a necessary assumption at this point, creating the preconditions for the implementation of the necessary reforms in health. After the debate was held, the committee voted by a majority, 6 votes in favour and 3 votes against decided to propose amendments and additions to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008 as well as subsequent decisions. Decisions on granting consent to amendments and additions to the financial plan of the Croatian Waters for 2008. Decisions on granting consent to amendments and additions to the financial plan of the Croatian Roads for 2008. Decisions on granting consent to amendments and additions to the State Agency's financial plan for the provision of savings deposits and bank recovery for 2008. Decisions to give consent to amendments and additions to the 2008 Fund's financial plan for environmental protection and energy efficiency. I Decisions on granting consent to the amendments and additions to the financial plan of the Croatian Privatisation Fund for 2008. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12574	Thank you. Do the other committees want it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. I didn't see it. On behalf of the Committee on Health and Social Care, Mr. Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12575	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The Health Committee discussed that today at its 8th session of the Proposal for an amendment and addition of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008. The Committee discussed the amendment and the addition of the state budget as an interested working body. The board members in their discussions highlighted all the positive sides of this rebalancing which showed positive economic movement despite severe global economic opportunities, which means that it retained the increase in gross domestic product at 4.5%, an increase in industrial production at 3.6%, unemployment still below 10%, a reduced number of unemployed for an additional 30,000, and with all this budget deficit was kept at 2% of the old definition, and 1.3% of the new one, which shows that despite the unfavourable economic environments, the government carried out consistently its drawn policy. The members of the board supported the adoption of budget rebalancing, the increase of the implementation plan in the entry of the Ministry of Health and Social Care was a special topic of discussion and the members of the board pointed out that this increase would make it easier to operate in the health system due to existing hospital obligations towards suppliers and existing HZZO obligations towards health institutions and pharmacies. They pointed out that this is a temporary solution, as health debt has been increasing for years as a result of the accumulation and introduction of new medicines, new diagnostic methods, and the increase in health costs is also affected by the rise in energy prices, food prices, the increase in medical prices so that income and expenditure disproportionate is increasing, and health services prices do not increase with the same dynamics. With this state of health, the board members stressed during the discussion, it is necessary to find new sources of funding for the health system that should follow the reform of the whole system. The increase in the items on the health side will allow for the return of around 500 million kunas of hospital debts, as well as new 500 million for the new system of increasing the limits introduced by the ministry in a new and quality way, since, in addition to the increase in finances, it also conditiones a change in the way in which the said money is made available. After extensive discussion, the board members decided to propose amendments to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12576	Thank you very much. Do the other committees want representatives? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12577	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear ministers and government representatives, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Generally speaking, state budgets are systems used by countries to plan and monitor their fiscal transactions, i.e. state revenues and expenditure. The famous Nobel laureate Samuelson says that the state budget has three fundamental and important economic purposes. It is a means by which social production is divided into private and public consumption and investment, it affects the supply of production factors such as labour and capital and the third purpose of the budget is fiscal policy which affects key macroeconomic objectives. Just taking into account developments in macroeconomic and fiscal indicators, the government of the Republic of Croatia has drawn up a budget rebalancing for 2008. In early 2008, positive trends in the real economy continued, and industrial production increased by 3.6% in the first 5 months at the annual level, while real growth in traffic from retail to low over the first 4 months was 2.2%. At the same time, construction works increased by 10.2% in the first quarter of this year, and positive trends in the real sector were followed by positive trends in the labour market and in May 2008 the total number of unemployed persons at the inter-annual level was reduced by 30 thousand 589 or 11.6%. Real GDP growth was 5.6% in 2007, while a slight slowdown in 2008 compared to 2007 is expected to bring real GDP growth of 4.5%. Therefore, the total revenues of the state budget were expected to be made more than planned in 2008 and revenue rebalancing increased by €2.5 billion and amounted to kuna 118.4 billion. The amendment and addition of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008 shows that the biggest increase in income is expected from VAT in the amount of €343 million, but that a visible increase in revenue of €649 million is expected. The important item of the expected increase in revenue is also from the proceeds of the €185 million assets, and in particular encourages the expected increase in the total revenues of the state budget from the base of the profit tax of €381 million. However, the profit tax plan of as much as 10 billion kuna points to the indisputable fact that in Croatia a legal and economic framework is being created for the permanent development of entrepreneurship and economy as a whole. The increase in the total revenues of the state budget by €2.5 billion is carefully directed to different programmes that primarily encourage economic growth, while reducing the negative impact of global developments on population standards. The total expenditure of the state budget has been increased by a rebalance of 2.8 billion kuna and amounts to 121.2 billion kuna. Excess revenue over the planned revenue will be used in several areas with specific objectives. To introduce structural support to the population and the economy in order to reduce the impact of energy prices, which is allocated to 600 million kunas and 250 million kunas of subsidies and 350 million kunas of compensation to citizens and households. To increase the strategic stock supply, which is a false priority in view of the negative global developments, and the rebalance to increase the strategic stock supplies provides an additional 100 million kuna. For industrial development support programmes, additional EUR 138 million has been allocated to support programmes for the development of the processing industry, i.e. textile, leather and footwear. For specific entrepreneurship promotion programmes in 2008, 48% more budgets are allocated compared to the previous year, and the 2008 budget pays special attention to the development of export-oriented business organisations. Excess revenue over the planned rebalancing will also be used for regional development programmes of €200 million, and mostly for investment in areas of special state care and development of local units and for the development of a water supply system. This rebalancing and changes to the 2008 State budget ensure increased development of tourism with an additional 32 million kuna added to the already foreseen 228 million kuna. Encouraging the knowledge and excellence of Croatian society has been continuously among the important priorities of the Government of Croatia and, to this end, the funds increase by more than 10% per year in the budget. This rebalancing in this year singles out an additional 334 million kunas for science, education and sport, most of which are further allocated to information technology and higher education. For the purpose of modernising and reforming the judicial system that directly affects the creation of a more favourable business environment and the greater legal certainty of citizens, the rebalancing has singled out an additional 50 million kuna. Financial problems in health care are necessary to observe from two angles. From the angle of HZZO and debt problems to direct suppliers and from the corner of hospitals financed from the budget, they operate independently and directly reconcile their obligations from their business accounts. Rebalancing in 2007, the HZZO's commitments were already resolved and an additional 1.7 billion kuna was allocated, and this year a billion kuna was allocated for hospital obligations and an additional 400 million kuna for other HZZO expenditures. It is important to point out that the 2008 rebalancing uses for the first time the coverage of the general government in line with the recommendations of the European methodology, the statistics of the public finances ESA 95, and the most significant change is that according to the HAC coverage, it is no longer within the scope of the state at all. By introducing recommendations and harmonising with the ESA 95 methodology, the Government of the Republic of Croatia continues its path towards further harmonisation with the regulations and practice of the European Union. Finally, the fiscal deficit for 2008 according to this European methodology is 1.3% of GDP, which is 0.3 percentage points less than planned for the 2008 budget. While the total deficit in the state budget in 2008 is planned at 2.8 billion kuna. Many, including economists, often wonder whether a rebalance of the state budget is necessary, is it impossible to plan exactly the total revenues and expenditures of the state budget. Yes, rebalancing is generally necessary and it is not possible to plan the total revenues and expenditures of the state budget explicitly. And why is it so picturesque to explain again the Nobel economist Sammelson who says that the economy is not an exact science, but it is still more than an art. And so it cannot be predicted exactly how much the rise in national income, what inflation or unemployment rate will be, as well as a meteorologist with certainty cannot predict exactly what time will be next week. However, the structure of the expenditure of the state budget is extremely important, and this rebalance of the state budget for 2008 was the government of the Republic of Croatia's concern for the social and development component, as additional allocations are mostly aimed at reducing the impact of negative global movements on population standards and programmes that directly encourage economic growth, but also at programmes that make up assumptions for the development of entrepreneurship and national economies as a whole. The HDZ Club therefore supports this proposal to amend and supplement the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008 and will vote in favour of its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12578	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Ms Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12579	Mr. Secretary, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Despite what we've heard here from both the prime minister and the finance minister, we at the SDP club, and also citizens feel it more and more, we see that actually through this rebalancing will not be better for workers, it will not be better for pensioners because they are not being provided with larger pension funds. Health care regardless of the resources it will receive is in an extremely difficult state, the economy is in a downward path, and the only thing that increases is inflation prices and VAT on citizens' pockets in the finance minister's cash register. It is said that in times of reform, reforms are more difficult to live, that reforms are painful but necessary. However, there is neither reform nor good living in Croatia. There is no reform of the state administration, no reforms of health and social systems, no decentralisation, no restructuring of agriculture, no shipbuilding, no restructuring of the energy sector, no reform of the judiciary. But that's why the standard falls and citizens live worse and worse. Last week, a survey by Hendal said nearly a fifth of Croatian citizens in this year had already felt a significant deterioration in the financial situation of their own household. More than a third of citizens argue that their financial situation is getting worse from month to month, and the fall in living standards is the most felt on daily consumption, the survey said, adding that in the follow-up year, almost all citizens will spend on daily needs, so for food and directing. This is unfortunately a picture of Croatia as the HDZ government draws. It is a picture that no minister can embellish with his TV performances, or I support interviews in the newspaper. The finance minister boasts that the budget is well-charged, but this is neither the result of curbing the grey economy nor of more effective tax collection. Unfortunately, reality is very different from what the government is saying and this rebalancing which is before us is not unfortunately a product of neither economic growth nor discipline of the gray zone, but is the result of an increase in prices and thus the amount of VAT that our citizens pay to the state budget every day. Let us not forget that we pay 22% of each purchase at almost a quarter of the price as a tax, so as prices rise, so the Minister's register is filled faster. And prices don't grow, but they've been wild lately without control, and no matter what your commission to control the storm and rain, as we called it at that point. In its reasoning of the rebalancing on page 4, the government itself said, I quote: "... VAT revenue records the largest growth, of which 13.3% due to increased personal consumption and inflation." And so Minister Schuker collected another 1.3 billion kuna. On average, every Croatian citizen in the minister's register only paid about 10 thousand kuna through VAT, and that amount is increasing from day to day along with inflation. This rebalancing brings nothing new. It does not bring improvements, but only in one part of the rags of the hole that came from inflation and that money that also came from inflation. As a result, this government responds to an increase in prices because the full budget accounts for poor citizens who spend more than half of their income on food. In the last four months, food prices have increased by 11% this year. New purchases are also announced up to 15% in early autumn, and official inflation has reached 6.4%, the highest inflation rate in the last eight years and since the HDZ rule of the 1990s. Economic analysts say it is only the beginning and that with such a disoriented and incompetent government that has no economic programme but only manipulates citizens with populist measures, further inflation growth is inevitable. According to research by relevant institutions, Croatia has fallen from 27th to 29th place since 2006 according to purchasing power. The consumer basket has increased by 200 kuna since the beginning of the year, and the average salary has dropped by 100 kuna. So under the password "Let's move on" HDZ leads Croatia. Perhaps a better password for this kind of government would be to go down because something like this Croatia has not experienced for a long time, such an inflation impact and a fall of standards. Instead of producing, imports are increasing, imports are twice as high as exports, and external debt has crossed 241 billion kuna. In 2003, the debt amounted to $17.4 billion. To make it easier for the minister to count, since she was concerned about the future of Croatian citizens at the time she was here in the opposition, so she said that every citizen and every Croatian family in this country was in charge of about 29 thousand kuna, here I am going to help her, so maybe now that she's in power to reach her again, then now the Croats are in charge somewhere around 92,000 kuna. However, when the debt was divided as it was then shared, in 2003 Mrs. Kosor was concerned that every child, every newborn baby, every citizen of this country was in charge of $4000 and 300. And today, every newborn baby, every citizen in charge of $12,000, 246. Gentlemen, this difference is the debt you've created in the last few years. The debt grows by another 3 billion euros each year. As a rescue solution for the drastic fall of standards, the government offers only an increase in the untaxable share of income from a thousand to a thousand 800 kuna, of which it will benefit not even the most socially vulnerable, but those in the higher pay grade who now have high wages and live well. On the other hand, the measure will be cut off precisely by those regions and units of local self-government, which are now financially poor. So to make the result of this measure positive, they will further make the situation worse. Socially threatened will not be better, but cities and municipalities with modest budgets will be even worse than today. But what else do you expect from this government, rather than a new failure, a new lonely and unsuspecting move that seeks to cloud their incompetence and show false social sensitivity. Gas prices have increased to nearly 10 kuna. Since Mr. Sanader has been Prime Minister since 2003, the euro has been super-coupling 50%. Diesel has been up by 80% since 2003, and blue diesel has been up to 140% since 2003. At the beginning of this year, the price of unleaded gasoline, the euro was 8 kuna, today is 9.65. The difference is 20%. Since November 2007, Euro diesel has increased from 7.93 to 9.84 kuna per litre, up from 25%. All of this was charged by Mr. Shuker for VAT, and he also charged VAT on excise duty. And that's how Minister Schuker fills the budget. The electricity price has increased 24%, with very few who will not feel the collection, as they spend less than 2,000 kilowatt hours a year. From the cabinet session we heard that such 50% and today we have tried to hear the truth once again, which is that most people in Croatia avoid the collection, but only 20% of our households have consumption below 2,000 kilowatts. Unfortunately, a quarter of the total number of the houses, garages, stairways and other rooms where people don't live. The collection will therefore be avoided mostly by singles and people who spend all day at work, not spending their electricity at home, and the most likely will be affected by multiple families who spend more than 3,000 kilowatts a year in the vast majority. This missed model, the socialist over an electric number introduced by the HDZ government, which so far had Albania and Serbia, so they left them for complexity and ineffectiveness, will not help the poor and that is clear to all but Mr Sanader and his government. So the majority of citizens will feel a significant increase in electricity. The collection was wanted to cover up with a statement that the Government of the Republic of Croatia would grant funds to HEP for that category of people in the budget and thus settle the debts. It is indeed high time for the government to realise that money in the budget is not private property, nor Prime Minister Sanader, nor Minister Shuker, but rather Croatian citizens' money. So the debt to HEP will be covered by citizens from their pockets. The question is, why are the citizens paying the bills to HEP? Is it because they get electricity or because HEP funds football clubs? We've forgiven some football clubs for tax debts, but we forgive citizens for nothing, and we don't forgive them for it. And one more thing, is the unpaid electricity of private businessmen paid out of citizens' pockets? And is it true that we are importing electricity at twice as much price as we are exporting to some companies in Herzegovina? On the other hand, the energy system is completely abandoned, the infrastructure is not adequate and the niche has not been invested in it for years, and that should be the strategic commitment of the Republic of Croatia, because energy as well as food has strategic significance in every country, except in Croatia. Because the government has found no way to neutralize or at least mitigate the shocks caused by rising energy and food prices, while international exchanges have been the worst since 1999. When we proposed in this House an interpretation of the energy situation in which we wanted to open a debate on the need for an energy strategy for Croatia, then we heard from the HDZ Club that we were proposing irrelevant topics, in order to obstruct the adoption of European laws. The lack of energy strategy pays citizens a very high price for electricity, oil and gas. One who believes that the standard of citizens and their increasingly difficult life is an irrelevant subject, only shows how much he cares about its citizens. With full rights, citizens say, Mark's square shows no sign of our poor. It's obvious that citizens are having a hard time living and every day is getting harder, but this government obviously doesn't care. It also concerns the fact that our citizens are in charge of the maximum. Currently, the debt is about 115 billion kuna, and citizens are massingly beginning to borrow and go to minuses on current accounts, even to buy the most basic provisions of life, because their wages are not enough to survive. In the last half of the year, banks have increased interest rates on all loans, and new increases are announced. This does not exclude housing loans and the question of how many citizens can face the increasing pressure of monthly amounts for loans. Governments are full of mouths to worry about the birth rate, and our question is which young man and young family will engage in the purchase of apartments, when interest is growing from day to day and when they are among the highest in Europe. Who's going to risk it, because he doesn't know if he'll be able to pay off the loan tomorrow? There are fewer people and that's already visible. It should be recalled that Minister Schuker reduced tax reliefs on housing loans at the very beginning of his ministerial term. But according to the known HDZ recipe, promises remain only promises, and nothing is fulfilled. Our question is, will you at least do something, Mr. Shucker, to make it easier for young people to come to the first apartment? Will you reduce VAT on certain products, such as in some European countries, as the SDP club has already proposed and mitigated the decline of our citizens' standards because of such good budget filling across citizens' backs? Several categories of population are the most endangered of these gatherings. One category is the users of support for social care. Since 2001, the social base has not changed, so it has then increased from 350 to 400 kuna. For example, for a four-member family, constant financial assistance can amount to a maximum of one thousand 360 kuna. If a consumer basket costs nearly 6.5 thousand kuna, then it is clear that families living off social benefits live below the poverty line. Social compensation covers 21% of the needs of a four-member family, and this is completely ignored by the government. The government therefore neglected about 115 thousand social assistance users who needed help immediately, not at the end of the year when they were promised, so social benefits. A month ago, we passed a minimum wage law here, those who proposed the law must know that three minimum salaries are enough to cover a table of basic foods for four-member families. The most endangered category is certainly 900 thousand pensioners who have a pension of less than 1,000 and 200 kuna. So these people survive with 44 kunas a day and after this budget, nothing will get better. So, for all these categories of Croatian citizens, the government has so far done nothing, and nothing useful has proposed in this budget rebalancing either. And with this budget rebalance, the government shows that there is no vision, no strategy, no economic or social development of Croatia, but is wandering and with its failure to find Croatia's waters in ever more difficult times for citizens to survive. The countries where Croatia was a role model have become an unattainable goal for us and all thanks to the incompetent and incompetent government of Ivo Sanader. In the election campaign, you promised gentlemen the project 3 times 7 and this was supposed to be a seven percent growth rate, a seven percent unemployment rate and seven major projects. You only have one week left of everything, and that's seven percent of inflation by the end of the year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12580	Thank you. We have a correction of incorrect allegations. First, Mr. Agent Andri Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12581	Thank you very much. So, I'd have fixed 31 incorrect allegations, but for the time being, I'll get as far as I can. It's obviously parallel statistics. It's wrong of Mrs. Lawman's colleague to say. The economy is in the descending path. The numbers show different. They show an increase in gross national income within the global crisis, an increase in industrial production, an increase in construction, etc., that in the absence of time, there will be opportunities in our speeches. All indicators are in the upward path. The Republic of Croatia does not implement reforms, what have you received from Mr. Minister? Oscar for the best movie? No, he won the award for the state that best implements the reforms. How he doesn't once implement reforms. It's incorrect and next. That on the basis of the VAT that is growing, this budget is being financed and that VAT growth is due to inflation growth, it is not exactly high due to the decline in the high economy that the government has been fighting for the fifth year. And it's incorrect to see that VAT growth is a new plan compared to the old one only increased by 2.1% and that's far below the inflation rate, so take your colleagues a little calculator. It is also incorrect that imports, repeated by the SDP, are twice as high as exports. Yes, if only exports of goods are accounted for, then it is 49%, the total exports of Croatia cover imports with 78%.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12582	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Madam Representative Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12583	Mr. President, a number of incorrect allegations have been made by the MP, so at the very beginning of its presentation, saying neither reforms are being carried out nor judicial reform is being carried out, nor is the restructuring of shipbuilding being carried out, as we are doing here in the Parliament when we have voted more than 70 European laws, and that is precisely to say that reforms are ongoing. As far as the gray VAT economy is concerned, 30,000 more employees from last May to May are also talking about this. And if I didn't run out of time during 2003, oil was $36, today oil prices are $140 and not so proportionally costing oil or fuel in Croatia. Therefore, there are a number of incorrect allegations that Mrs Opačić used to speak of everything else and at least of the budget rebalancing.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12584	Thank you. Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12585	Dear President, you should organise a special debate to correct the incorrect allegations of counterpart Opačić. First of all, she incorrectly said that the government does nothing but manages false social sensitivity. Which logically through this populist speech for seducing broad folk masses sounded convenient. It's hard, it's certainly hard to live hard today and it's not controversial, but the government doesn't do anything, it's a lie. I believe that a colleague has no amnesia to remember what they did when they were in power regarding social measures, and I will remind myself of that I talked about, introduced excise duties, additionally burdened the standard of living, reduced wages, etc., I could not now remember any positive shift that was made at that time related to protection, social protection of workers. But I must stress that we should not forget the minimum wage and, in the end, she listed it all.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12586	Thank you very much. Correction of incorrect allegations, Mrs Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12587	Thank you, Mr. President, so here's what my colleague Kunst said, this was a political speech, and the election campaign isn't yet. So, my colleague Opacic said, a whole series of incorrect allegations. She said, among other things, that this government is incompetent, that this is another incomparable failure, so I just want to remind you that we're obviously reading different data, and I'm going to do it again. Industrial production for the first four months of this year has grown to 5.3, a retail trade for 2.2, a standard, the truth that it is hard to live, said counterpart Kunst, and because of everything and because of the global situation on the world market but this salary has grown, the average salary is 7 thousand 374 kuna for the first four months, therefore something has grown. And I'm going to remind you, colleagues, I'm monitoring the area of education, at this time about 2003, science rebalanced 119 million kunas in the past, so your government.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12588	Thank you. Ms. Representative Neda Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12589	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues, I would, in fact, have colleagues, of course, correct the incorrect quote of Ms. Opačić's representative who says incorrectly, of course, that the weaker financial, weaker units of local self-government, but this will actually be even more difficult to see as the socially endangered citizens will also be made their status more difficult. I would just say the opposite that the amendments to the Law on the financing of units of local self-government specifically made my city of Sibenik more revenue than 20 million kuna, which is a significant 10% of the total budget. In this way, my citizens have received socially endangered citizens from the budget of the city of Sibenik again thanks to this model of 5 million kuna plus what the ministry, i.e. the state, provides and thanks to you once again the Minister of Health, Mr Milinović, for solving the status of general hospital in the city of Sibenik and in the area of the entire county, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12590	Thank you. Correction Mr. Boris Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12591	Mr. President, the Honorable Mr. Minister, the esteemed colleague Opačić said, our president said 31, I've summed up 34 incorrect allegations, but I won't do much. She said this government is not capable and competent and does not care about citizens. Dear colleagues Opačić, this government is competent because it is as the first expression of the will of most Croatian voters and I do not see that our citizens would make it because you have chosen them as someone who is not capable. Furthermore, it is obvious that you have not come to terms with this. Also, this government is obviously true and the truth is seen this takes care of even development, takes care of citizens, wages are up. The truth is that you held one extremely narcissistic political... SDP. and I'm asking you a question about how... /The speaker's off. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Minister Shuker has won the prize, everyone admits it except you who are on call for skeptics. [[The intruders don't understand.]] Stay with your narcissistic pamphlet and keep going.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12592	Thank you. Thank you. Gentlemen and gentlemen, it is an opinion on ability or incompetence, not a correction of an incorrect quote, but a different opinion. So the correction of an incorrect quote is the institute that says that, preferably, it's the incorrect quote that is being corrected and then it's said it's not like this. Otherwise, I think that we should all in some way avoid these corrections because the corrections of opinions do not exist in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, but there is a correction of the incorrect quote. So this is not the address of a single representative but of a majority who engages in commenting in, under the correction of an incorrect statement of comment. It's not forbidden to claim that someone is incompetent, is it? Here you go. You've had a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and please, in advance of this, I warn you that the breach of the Rules of Procedure is also an institute that has to be precisely located on a particular article and tell you what's been hurt?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12593	Article 210 has been injured. So Mr. Matkovic did not correct the incorrect allegations but he... Let's put it this way, and let's say a subjective flat-rate assessment of your colleague Opačić's speech, and I would like to thank you this way for warning him with your criticism that he is no longer doing so in the future. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12594	Thank you. This was a warning more or less in most MPs crossing the framework of correcting the incorrect allegations. And I think today's debate and otherwise the debates would be far more content and more concrete if everyone were to take care of it. Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Minister Ivan Shuker's turn. And now I'm asking Mr. Capricorn to replace me.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12595	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Well, as finance minister, I'm happy after this SDP debate because if you want to criticize something, then you have to offer a countermeasure. If you are talking about tax cuts then you must tell Croatian citizens or you will introduce new taxes to them or that you will abolish their rights or increase their duties. So that's three basic things that are related to tax cuts. But prominent counterparts and MPs Opačić, the revenues of the state budget in 4 years increased 40 billion kuna but 40 billion kuna compared to 78 times the last budget of the coalition government. And now tell me what kind of mathematical stunts it is when four years of inflation was below 3% is the result of the state budget filling over the past four years because of inflation? What are these mathematical crevices or formulas? Somebody explain it to me. This is the consequence of what you failed to do, which is that instead of preventing money from going into private pockets, direct it towards the state budget. We did it. And that's obvious. It's another thing. When we talk about the tax burden of the Institute of Public Finance, he has now issued a document based on years of research. It is clearly written that Croatia is a country with, one of the countries with the lowest tax burden. So it wasn't Shuker or his men or anyone from HDZ. People from the Institute of Public Finance worked, while counterpart Linic and others who deal with the economy well know the leaders and know that there people are not exactly subject to any political influences. So they issued this one expert document and they said it. As far as this budget is concerned, if you're going to say that the result of the budget is the result of inflation, then let's move on to the expenditure side. Doesn't what the state spends raise prices for it? Thus, the state also faces the cost of rising prices and the cost of increasing consumption. But income tax is not the result of inflationary movements. Income tax revenues in the first 6 months are 21% higher compared to last year. If you have an average salary growth of about 5.6% but gentlemen dear, then how come these 14% higher income points? From where? ... Oh, no. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's the consequence of taking over a piece of the gray economy, of stopping paying off payouts on one hand, the other like this. So they have certain results with which we as Croatian representatives and representatives of the Croatian government should all be happy together. Everyone should be happy. Inflation is not just a Croatian phenomenon. When you look at all transition countries have more inflation than Croatian countries. And I don't want it to be an excuse for me or anyone from the Croatian government to be that way. There's an increase in energy prices on that. I would be happy if both the SDP Club and everyone who criticise the government's measure of such subsidized electricity would offer a model at which the price could be subsidized. It's very interesting that gentlemen from "Hroat of Fire", we are already talking about it for over a month have not reported to HEP or the Ministry of Finance that they have certain indicators that may indicate it or suggest that perhaps this power subsidisation limit should be different. I'll tell you openly. If they had offered indicators that 50% of households spent more than 2 and a half thousand kilowatt hours, we would have gone with the proposal to co-finance electricity with 2 and a half thousand kilowatt hours a year. I'm telling you in public here. We went on a proposal like this because we got data from HEP that 47% of consumers are under this. In the end, the government's decision if, even during its application, it shows that this is how it is, so who is the problem of proposing an additional decision. We have the money in the budget of 600 million, and that's a clear indication that we're serious. So we can change that line. Forgiveness to long sportsmen. Obviously someone has not read Amendments to the income tax law that for the first time in history in this country it is clearly defined how athletes pay taxes both on their incomes and on their transfers. For the first time. This is clearly defined by income tax. What someone doesn't want to read is his problem. But I also said that in public with the transfer of Dinam's football players and everyone. And as for forgiveness, you all know exactly what kind of inspections they were and let him tell me what Hajduk money had to have, or Dinamo, that he actually made 280 million tax dollars. The money was not forgiven, it was transferred to local self-government units. To units for all clubs in the Republic of Croatia from the smallest one to say forgive me for the expression of the village club to the largest Croatian club completely identical model, completely identical model. Deployment. Look, if by the end of 2003 there was 20 billion in debt, if it's 30 and more now, then I don't know how the debt per capita can go from 4000 to 12,000 and something else. Croatia, meanwhile, lost a million, two inhabitants. But when we look at the structure of that debt, then you'll see what the government can influence, which is the central government's debt, that its share has fallen and in total external debt from some 35.36 to some 21%. The second thing, proper borrowings that go into consumption, however, we cannot talk about economic growth and limit the duties of Croatian companies that want to buy new, more modern technology and make new halls. Next year, not us, but the State Statistics Institute will have to make one correction that all transition countries have done, which is a correction of the gross domestic product for the share of the grey economy. And why is that? Because gross domestic product is a reference size based on which Croatia will also have obligations and also exercise certain rights. Because look, all the countries that have entered the European Union in the last few years, I mean, first of all, those 10 that came in about 4 years ago, they've corrected their gross domestic product in 10% to 20%. On the same EUROSTAT methodology, Croatia should correct its gross domestic product between 16% and 20%. When done then many macro economic indicators will get a far better and far better picture. But it is not, nor does it occur to me to say that external duty is not a latent danger that we have to keep an eye on it and also the Government of the Republic of Croatia. But now there's another question that would happen if the deficit hadn't been reduced to as much as it has been reduced? The deficit can only be financed from two sources. One is the sale of property, and the other is the borrowing outside. Look, one percentage point of deficit is somewhere over 2 billion and 800 kuna. Then how long and how much VAT cuts would be. You had your story with 17%, we had yours with 20%. We honestly admit that we can't do that, because we can't implement a firm policy. But we also reduced the VAT rate. But let's tell the Croatian citizens how two percentage points of VAT are less. Over 3 billion and 300, 3 billion and 400 in the state budget. However, both you and yourself as a representative of the Government or above all of us as citizens of the Republic of Croatia as much as would change the prices if the VAT rate decreased 2%. Remember the end of the ninety-eightth or ninth and the introduction of a zero VAT rate on bread and milk. How many producers have reduced the rate of this. And finally, look, we can look at Croatia's prize from the World Bank, with an underestimation. With that award, however, Croatia has received another rating these days, which unfortunately has been suspended, which is that Croatia has been financially well prepared for this shock that it has been. That's the World Bank's official rating. And let's not be when they find us between people's financial institutions, then it's relevant, and when they reward us it's not relevant. Croatia, gentlemen dear, is the top reform in Europe and Croatia is the second reform in the world whether you like it or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12596	Thank you. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. Milanka Opačić is the first to be respected. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12597	Mr. Shuker claimed that the budget is not being filled up because of inflation and that it was something I said wrong. Well, here's Mr. Shuker, I'm just reading what you wrote, and your material says I'm going to quote: "The VAT income records the biggest growth of even 13.3% because of the increase in personal consumption and inflation." That's what it says in your material, and as far as forgiveness of debts to football players, I'm talking about football clubs, and you've confirmed that their debts have gone to local self-government debts. And now I'm asking you, Mr. Schucker, will you do it with the citizens? You have citizens who are due to the interest the IRS has raised on their basic debts have so much debt to slowly raise their hands to themselves. And I ask you, will you forgive your debts to the citizens like you did to the football clubs in local self-government? Transfer it to the citizens as well, and it'll be easier for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12598	Please! Let's stick to correcting the incorrect quote, and that doesn't mean asking questions. The second correction of the incorrect allegations is the honourable representative of Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12599	I would correct the incorrect assumption that the programme is a measure for the subsidy of electricity. So this is not a programme of measures to subsidise electricity, but to subsidize the number. Because it doesn't matter how much it costs, it matters how much the one who owns that number can pay for it. So whoever has the garage and inside the Mercedes parking lot has a number, probably can pay those 2,000 kilowatt hours. I was decent and I listened! Yeah? And not those who have only electricity to a three-member and four-member family who unfortunately have electricity, and that electricity is more than 2,000 kilowatts. Otherwise, every city's social programme is better than what the government is offering at this time and could come up with, so one national social programme that would go to subsidize, so it's just those who have nowhere to pay from. After all, the state has one model of wood for heating that is carried out, so it goes through the Social Care Centre. It could've been used. And as for football, we're not all equal. You know, Belupo paid all his debts and there's no need at all for any tax debt from Belupa to be transferred to the property of the local self-government unit. [[Invader Jarnjak: Thank you, time is up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12600	Thank you. I'd like to beg... You can't talk any further! I'd like to ask you distinguished MPs today will be a long debate. Well, we stick to the basic provisions of the Rules of Procedure, and that's the time. Well, you all see, so don't do it. Please! Let's move on. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Slavko Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12601	I thank you, Mr. Vice President, for correcting the Minister's incorrect claim that we had two stories. Our 17% VAT and HDZ 22. It's true that HDZ law had a VAT reduction to 20, and when we talk about a 17% story, it was the original story that changed, if I may... in a law that has been implemented and not a reduction in VAT, but a reduction of 2% of contributions to health care, 2% of pension and direct effect is an increase in labour wages, an increase in pensions because we have estimated that this is very important. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And not only the growth of pensions and wages but also economic growth because part of that reduction went to the economy, according to which the SDP reduction story ended as we always suggest to you. Reduce your contributions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12602	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12603	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It's incorrect, Mr. Minister, to claim that, here we look down on that reward that you've won. You were underestimatingly looking at this award, and that's how it was declared last year when you didn't get it, but it was given to Albania.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12604	Thank you. Dear Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12605	Thank you very much. I'd like to correct two incorrect allegations. The first false allegation is, I would perhaps try to help a minister who said it wasn't inflation, or inflation, or did not increase that budget from 70 to 110 billion and some kuna. The fact is that most of these 40 billion kunas from the minister refer to VAT directly resulting from VAT growth is the result of inflation, i.e. the negative balance of payments that Croatia today has at around 80 billion a year, and when the coalition government left the government in 2003 was about 60 billion. And the other thing, we are not looking down on this prize that you have received, but we are congratulating you on the contrary. We are from 178 countries 97th on that scale, and we are very well placed in the protection of workers where we are 139th place, in protecting investors where we are 122. etc. of 178 countries in the world so that we can congratulate you on that award.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12606	Thank you. Obviously, this appeal doesn't apply to you, so let's move on with the debate. I would, however, pray, give up the time prescribed by our Rules of Procedure that I do not have to warn. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12607	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. I thought I'd start out differently, but how to be correct. Clearly, opportunities are difficult both in the environment and in Croatia, transition countries reduce gross social product from 8.5 to 6.5% somewhere, the countries most developed by the European Union from 3.5% to 1.5%, Croatia from 5.5% to 4.5%. But clearly, it's not enough just to say the opportunities are difficult, it needs to be done and it needs to be done by the government, it needs to be proposed, it should be an opposition, but for now I don't see the light at the end of the tunnel, and what we all know is that this country is going to be harder. It's gonna be harder to live. Not only in Croatia, it will live harder both in our neighbourhood and in Italy and in the UK and Austria, and not to list other countries. The harder it's going to be, the harder it's going to be. In general, we can say that in this country there is a struggle for naked survival, perhaps never harder. I'm also afraid that it wouldn't be much better if someone else were in power, but today it's in HDZ and it's responsible for the opportunities in this country and that's actually the point, and the opportunities in this country today are not good and there's no one responsible for whether HDZ is. The question now is whether the opposition will be correct, but HDZ has never been correct, and then don't expect anyone to praise you, so I won't do it either. First, as for this rebalance of the state budget, revenues are increasing by 2.5 billion kuna, expenditure by 2.8 billion kuna. It's just saying that today it's relative, let me make a joke, relatively easy to be a finance minister in the Republic of Croatia, which through this centralization, it's not surprising. The most ungrateful resorts in this country at the moment are the health minister, the judiciary, the economy, the clear police. Clearly, no one reduces the importance of either the Minister of Finance or the finance as a resistor, but there are some things set up and that's good. Secondly, incomes rise by 2.5 billion kuna. Perhaps Mr Mršić is right that by the end of the year your income will grow as much as 5 billion kuna and now the next question is raised and that is what it is. If we want to reduce the price shock, wouldn't it really be logical to think about VAT correction, but only on food and I can't agree, as Stazic disagreed, that this is some kind of provocation if someone asked for it because it was clearly proposed by HDZ itself? The overall rate of 22% affects the growth of budget revenues and I think that if we want to affect the entire range of purchases, Croatia must correct this VAT on food. True, this rebalancing is necessary, but still, first of all, just to say one assessment, it's perfiduously allocated to certain funds, it's politically conducted, that's what hurts, that's what offends, that's what demeans, so in this rebalancing budget I read that the general hospital in Pula, before it was intended for revenues of 15.3 million kuna, and now these revenues are reduced by 7.2 million kuna. Why do you do that? Villa Maria in Pula with 11.2 million kuna, revenues go to 8.2 million kuna. They're shrinking by 3 million kunas. University of Pula from 4 million kuna to 3 million kuna. In any case, those areas that may be the most isolated per capita into the state budget have not gotten anything, and now with this rebalancing, these revenues are shrinking. On the other hand, why did he have to follow this rebalance? We simply need money, and year after year, we need more and more money because, for example, health care from year to year is growing, it is worth social, it is worth schooling, it is worth pensioning, it is worth it for defenders, it is worth it for Croatian highways because if you collect steel on the world market 100%, then it is normal that those banks will collect as well as normal that in the price of gasoline, the one who performs these works will have to transfer it to someone in the end. We all see more expensive, more, and the normal opposition suggests a reduction in income, i.e. those tax write-offs. Now, is that possible to reconcile? No, it's not possible to reconcile if we don't increase employment, if we don't increase this gross social product, and it's just him, that gross social product goes down from year to year. The budget's planned revenue was 115.9 billion kuna. Now it's $118.4 billion. The expenditures will rise from $118.4 billion to €121.2 billion. It is interesting that a new way of calculating deficits will lead to the same amount in Croatia being 3.9 billion kuna or 1.3% and last year it was 2.3% respectively. If this method of reckoning were applied, it would be about 1.6%. So, let's go now from what's good at this rebalancing. It's good that the deficit is going to be 1.3%, the revenues are higher by 2 and a half billion kuna, so I finally think that the distribution of 2.8 billion kuna is not too controversial except, once again, Mr. Minister, this reduction of budget revenues for some projects in Istria is simply insulting us. We're going in a row now. 1.4 billion kuna goes for healthcare, more specifically for covering losses, primarily for general hospitals of 1 billion kuna, and 400 million kuna goes for expenditures of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, probably for the purchase of these medicines or the settlement of debts. That's what I think I'm correcting one bad move from the government that proposed that health income be reduced compared to 2007. That's where we get to $19.8 billion for the health ministry. I'd even be happier to keep the deficit this year at last year's 1.6% and raise the amount of 2.8 billion kuna to 3.6 billion kuna and, let's say, 600 or 800 million kuna to health care. I'm not going to say that the state of health, that it's been bankrupted by health care, but in some general hospitals it's more correct to say that the opportunities are simply catastrophic, and all because the government was saving where it wasn't allowed to save, and that's exactly that health care. To be clear, the health care system is kind of undermining us from the inside. Nowhere is likely to be easier to get sick than in Croatia. There are no higher rates of living in Europe than in Croatia. Croatian citizens were on leave for 30 million days in 2007. So somewhere 61 thousand people a day are in pain. It also clearly includes birth permits. How much does the Croatian Health Insurance Institute cost? 1.3 billion kuna. The Ministry of Science will receive 334 million kunas, saying the minister will now have 12 billion kuna. These funds go to free textbooks, free transportation, for more than 2.1%. 100 million kuna goes for the strategic reserve, that's certainly fine. But the IDS thinks that the excise duties on the oil supplies of the 0,60 lipa should be abolished is the rise in the basic price through VAT significantly brings to the budget. And says the minister, I think I read it somewhere yesterday, says on electricity we can run social policy, we won't be running social policy on oil. Regional Development Minister gets 200m kuna, justice minister 50m kuna, tourism minister another 32m kuna. Does that mean these expenditures are controversial? No, but the disputed one is the redistribution within those ministries. It's clear everyone needs money. Finally, whatever we think Croatia can't say that it's not a social state, if almost 90% of its capacity is budgeted for these social purposes, good pay is not a social purpose, but let's say for wages, health care, social services, defenders etc. There's no country where we only have 1.4 workers on one pensioner. And if we subtract from that number those who are on sick leave and those who work in these state-owned companies, from health care to police, from defense to customs, from education to Parliament, government, etc., we de facto have a 1:1 ratio. However, what is wrong with this budget? I said, I wouldn't mind if even the money that's being talked about here today is going to health care because the opportunities in some general hospitals I repeat are tragic, Sibenik, Pula, etc., and our people, if they deserve something, it's then that their chances in these hospitals are not to say "honor," I'll tell people. The other is bad that foreign debt is galloping. Foreign debt today is almost 35 billion euros. By the end of the government's term, the foreign debt will grow to nearly 50 billion euros. That'll be 75 billion dollars somewhere. And now let's let go of this ratio between a country that reduces its external debt, but still has to be in debt clearly in the world, not at home because there are cheaper funds, businesses and banks. Another thing to say is that the growth of gross social product will be less than 2007. After seven relatively successful years, we must prepare for seven difficult years. Most external loans are directed towards activities which are not export-oriented and this is an additional problem and can also be reflected tomorrow and on the repayment of loans. On the other hand, the growth in household borrowing has slowed down, which is usually enormous because of the reduction in these housing loans, which says that interest rates are growing and that people, mostly young people, are becoming increasingly difficult in this country to reach an apartment. The stock deficit keeps increasing. For example, exchange between China and Croatia. China exports to Croatia a billion 600 million dollars, we export to China only 20 million dollars. That's the 1:80 ratio. And I assure you, with that ratio, neither are the people in China satisfied. On the other hand, he looks forward to being, for example, in Serbia, Croatia is the biggest investor behind Switzerland and therefore enough of the scandal that was here in Zagreb "kills, kills Serbs" and I hope that will not happen in Umag if Thompson comes down there against which I personally. That's enough with one word of that primitive. On the other hand, Croatia is only 55 percent of the European Union when it comes to employment, the goods from Europe are clear that they come here expensive, clearly that no one is satisfied with that standard of employment is true in Croatia on the rise, but this employment is still almost among the lowest in Europe. True unemployment declines, looking for a worker more, especially in this season, but I again as the biggest Croatian problem with exports, a smaller gross social product prices, or inflation I see growth not paying, i.e. Individence. Up to 60 days we have a thousand 479 companies that owe 575.7 million kuna. From 61 to 180 days, a thousand 386 companies owe 533 million kuna. From 181 to 360 days, a thousand 700 companies owe 660 million kuna, and 20 thousand and some companies owe over 360 days of $12.5 billion in total, that is over 14.3 billion in kuna. The question, what it seems, is so clear, and therefore it seems logical to me that some companies must be helped, but not as we say that Croatia intends to restructure the shipbuilding, regardless of how much it has been put into shipbuilding since 2000, there is something that should at least be reconsidered. I can't say all the burden of that restructuring falls to one Oilman who only covers it from nine.5% of state subsidies, and all the other companies de facto continue to subsidise I say in a 100% amount of the ship when we watch with the beating of losses, etc. As for Istria, I've said a few words, but I'm going to say one more time, that this reduction of these certain opportunities is simply insulting. For the end, life is clear from day to day, people are finding it harder to live and the question is how to help these people. I'm going back to reduced VAT on food. And for the end, one more detail. The time limit for payment of customs duties and VAT has been reduced from 30 to 10 days from the date of import with the application of the customs declaration. Since 01.07.2010, the law on these amendments and amendments to the Customs Act, which de facto in 10 days must pay or garner the goods, but because we haven't changed tariffs, we or importers will have to pay and VAT within 10 days... And I'm afraid that a lot of them will just shut it down. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And finally, the stock market crash is destroying and making pensions, all the mandatory pension funds this year. There's a fall. [[Intruder: Bring an end to the debate.]] The clear stock market is tied up, I don't know about world trends, our inflation, Crobex is 10.4% smaller than it was. And in one word, it is clear that in this country they will live in the coming years more difficult. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, your debate is over.]] Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12608	Your Honor. There's no excuse. Stick to the Rules of Procedure that we voted for ourselves. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12609	Thank you very much. Mr. Caine, it is incorrect to assume that of all the taxes that the entry side of the budget has raised the most tax on added value or VAT. The largest increase in profit tax is precisely the result of positive economic developments. The profit tax increased compared to 2007 by 0.4 percentage points and by 0.8 percentage points compared to this year's plan. Mr. Cain wrongly said that the state is guilty of a tragic situation, that's another false assumption. ... You incorrectly said the state was guilty of bad business. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] in the General Hospital of Sibenik and Pula. [[I'm fighting with the minister.]] I'd like an extension from a minute. For the poor business of the General Hospital Pula and Sibenik is not the fault of the state, but the management of these hospitals, which is why they spend on the insurance company twice as much as some other general hospitals on the same terms and conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12610	Thank you. And later he claims, and I'll appreciate that, the distinguished representative of Shima Luchin, the correction of the incorrect assumption. However, before I say that I am notifying that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure expired time to report a debate of 10 minutes at 10.00 hours 46 minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12611	Thank you very much. Well, it is incorrect that Mr. Cain's restructuring of Croatian shipbuilding will fall only on the back of Pulski "Olinik". Unfortunately, some shipyards will go much worse. In any case, a good part of the ship builder in "Olinik" will keep his jobs, unfortunately in "Brodo-Trogir" according to the latest announcements from the government, apparently no one will keep their early seat at the shipyard. And I'm not really sure this is about restructure shipbuilding, before it's about the sale of shipbuilding.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12612	Thank you. We're moving on with the club debate. On behalf of the SDS Club, the esteemed representative, Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12613	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This draft budget rebalancing, according to the stand-up of the Independent Democratic Serb Party club, according to what we currently have, is a solid attempt to patch up the largest hole we have in the country. In addition to this solid attempt to patch up the biggest holes and what the finance minister Mr. Shucker is saying, reducing the deficit with this type and this way of budget rebalancing and the general policy that water is also something that we consider a good effect regardless of how it comes or calculates that deficit. But, of course, that's no reason not to say things about what's called patching holes. First, as regards health care, where, of course, given the needs of health care, it is clearly necessary to provide the largest means possible in accordance with the area that the budgeting allows. So a billion and 400 million kuna plus more internal redistribution within the budget itself. And that is something that, in the given circumstances, represents some sort of measure, which wants to put out a fire that lurks on different sides when it comes to this important activity within society. What, though, does most of these funds go for? I'd like to know more than I actually know. And what little I know or what I hear is kind of worrying me. Most of these funds, if I speak wrong, Minister Milinovic or Minister Schuker will correct me or other colleagues and colleagues who are here from the profession are actually leaving for medicines and for the needs that arise in hospitals or in connection with them in clinics. And if we still know about it, as I heard yesterday, thanks to a brief consultation, let us not mind those with whom I consulted the third on the rank list of medicines we use in the state of practice. Then we actually ask the point of our subsidisation or our attempt to patch up that kind of hole if in the end they're going to pay for those who are the most difficult patients and whose country they actually need if we decide to reform. One who needs a severe surgery or one who needs the most difficult forms of medical treatment and the most demanding forms of medical treatment. If so, so, so that we unwittingly, I say we're actually going to the pharmaceutical industry and those who are actually expanding the spectrum of consumption of different kinds of medications is this how we actually put out the fire within our health. I would immodestly say as someone who wasn't an expert in that area told me as a layman seems not to have. If the problem is practical, then it is a problem of another species that needs to be dealt with differently. If doctors need to be stimulated in terms of their wages, then it is better for the state to stimulate them if the hospitals are state-owned than to be stimulated by the pharmaceutical industry. Of course, the elements of improving the social situation or social giving that are foreseen here through the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare are something that we cannot avoid right now. We cannot say too much about such measures in view of the circumstances both of the SDP colleagues and of Mr Cain from the IDS, and besides us who are in the ruling coalition, we are fully aware that these social measures cannot be reduced at the moment but cannot be reduced but must be maintained. As far as schooling is concerned, it's clear that the separations, the greater pay allocations, the greater the separation from the book, are something that is necessary right now. But it's also quite clear that it's not enough for what we have especially in science and higher education, which is that we have a new regime for which we don't have adequate conditions, nor spatial, nor human resources, nor do we have adequate equipment from books to technical means depending on which higher education is involved. And for this reason, it seems to me that, in addition to the necessary requirements of course, when it comes to primary schooling, secondary schooling, the same higher education institutions and scientific institutions would have to get, and given the demands they are expected to receive in the Bologna process, they would have to get a lot more space than they got in the rebalancing of this budget. Because it's not because we're going to have more recruits, it's not only because we're going to have more researchers but it's also a question of whether we're going to have an adequate space, whether we're going to have adequate libraries and whether we're going to have adequate exchanges in the educational process with other countries, with other institutions and with other university houses, not only in Croatia, but in our environment and the world in general, that's the meaning of the bologna. We unfortunately have such assumptions if they don't come from outside based on some initiative we don't have ourselves. As Mr. Cain somewhat cried out for the Pula hospital, I can say that it is really unfair when it comes to the distribution of internal resources by individual schools and the restoration of certain schools, I will not now name them because everyone has a need and everyone is trying to meet that need but Nikola Tesla High School of Engineering, I recently visited it with my colleagues in Vukovar, or Bor's settlement is in such a state that I do not believe there is such a school, there may be some hospital in Zagreb that is in a similar state, but such a school in Croatia simply does not exist. And there is no sensitivity that in such a sensitive space as Croatia's Podunavlje in interethnic relations and political relations, I simply don't understand it. And these children and these teachers despite such a condition and the situation is catastrophic from the sports hall to the individual wings of these facilities to home, which was recently subject to public interest due to incidents. And these students and teachers still achieve excellent results. The same thing, of course, applies to IV. Nikola Andric elementary school in Vukovar. And I really don't see any reason why he's been stalling for several years finding funds for those schools. And it provides for some who are certainly in better shape than this one, both. I just know that there are schools in a worse state where there's no one, no students, no teachers, no people. But the worse, the worse I've seen. As far as regional development is concerned, it is quite understandable that the new ministry, the Ministry of Regional Development, which in the first insurance of budgets as well as the Ministry of Tourism did not receive an adequate amount of funding, is being rebalanced for increased funds. We will say that for neither, nor for regional development nor for tourism, this is not enough, but just over 200 million kuna for regional development by Minister Cobankovic is a significant increase and it should also be felt in those projects that the Ministry is trying to implement. Especially when it comes to infrastructure and, of course, especially when it comes to economic recovery projects in areas of special state concern from eastern Slavonia to Dalmatia. However, we will spend considerable funds for reconstruction this time too. We'll spend it on housing. And maybe we shouldn't spend it, I'm sorry to say it to the Minister of Finance because it's not his jurisdiction or what the Minister of Health listens to, and neither is his jurisdiction, but there is, by our free judgment, a large number of housing units in Croatian cities and Croatian settlements that are illegally used. Or used without any basis. And we will for former tenants instead of simply making order as it was done in Osijek where it was found in the first check of 28 apartments used illegally or in Knin I don't know how much, so we will fill the state budget. We will meet the criteria towards the European Union and seek, I don't know, 300 or 400 million just this year to ensure I don't know how many hundreds of apartments. And it's just that the state needs to work. And there's a huge savings tank there, Mr. Minister, for efficiency. As you rightly say, tax collection is one of the strong mechanisms for filling the budget and ensuring such rebalancing, but the same applies to the efficiency of the state in different segments. That we don't spend where we shouldn't spend, where we've already spent. And where the country actually needs to be properly mastered with what's hers. And there's a lot of that. And of course this is not only true for this difficult problem of housing, but also applies specifically to the issue of justice and state administration. This is not a technical issue above all, so that we now need to secure neither 50 nor 60 million kunas for judicial reform or for fighting corruption, while USKOK did not get too much when fighting corruption is as far as we can see within the State's Attorney's Office. It is simply a matter of increasing the professional ethics and ethics of judges and civil servants and, of course, providing them with adequate means of work in terms of both wages and, of course, labour conditions. This seems to me to Mr. Minister and to me as a member of the coalition government one resource that we don't actually use properly, which is to stop spending like this in a health care facility where it is irrational and to establish and manage what we have as a state so that we don't spend on what objectively we don't need to spend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12614	Thank you. And as the last club on behalf of the HNS Club, distinguished representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12615	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate Minister Shuker on his confession and award, truly sincere congratulations. As regards today's point of discussion, this is the budget rebalance or the amendments and additions to the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008. We can say important and important, and that is to discuss a document that tells us what our country's chances are in the future. We are talking about a document that gives a picture of something that is the result of the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and also gives projections and answers to many questions which I will mention only some of them. And this is where this country is developing, which the living conditions of this state provide for citizens as well as its taxpayers, and whether the government to which citizens have given confidence to manage their assets is doing its job correctly and for the citizens above all useful. I will not comment on some items of the budgetary rebalancing on behalf of the Croatian People's Party on the results of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which are measurable and with this budget rebalancing for 2008. Today, we are talking about budget rebalancing for 2008 which says that 118.4 billion kunas of money will be allocated to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in the budget. Just filling the state budget for the first six months is relatively good and this resulted in a surplus budget of 2 and a half billion kuna. In this context, it should be made very clear that this is the result of the mainly rising prices of especially energy and of the high personal consumption of our citizens. For example, the gas price of the euro super gas that we fix on 10 kuna, 4.4 kuna goes to the manufacturer or gas supplier, 1.2 kuna goes to all highways in Croatia and everything else including VAT into the budget of the Republic of Croatia, resulting in almost 4 billion budget revenues. But what is crucial is to say, what is a key problem with price growth and the fall in real wages already feel the effects of the weakening and slow growth of the economy and the growth of inflation. This rebalance expects a real growth of 4.5% of gross national product, which is a slowdown compared to 2007 when it was 5.6%. That doesn't exactly suggest an announced and proclaimed so-called so-called. 5th gear in economic swing. Such a gross national product is explained by adverse developments in the global financial market of the type of mortgage crisis in the United States, a major rise in oil prices, other energy and raw materials. The average annual price growth projected for 2008 is 5.9%. We wonder if it will stay that way because it will depend on the already mentioned energy price to which food prices are then added to the world market. Data for the first term show that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not implemented effective measures to mitigate the shock of energy and food prices. Croatia has welcomed the crisis of energy and food, energy prices and food by sacrificing the special standard of its citizens with below average incomes, and I must especially stress pensioners and 60% of the citizens' employees. The fire measures that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has taken so far largely come down to maintaining citizens' standards, mostly not to uphold citizens' standards but rather to try to patch up citizens' standards. Unfortunately, however, these measures do not give optimism to the poorest and do not protect the poorest, but possibly provide something to the middle and rich layers of our citizens. The measures to subsidise electricity growth or increase the non-taxable part of the salary will not help the poorest and very little for the most endangered circus of 115 000 of our fellow social assistance beneficiaries who receive compensation 400 kuna per month and to whom the measures do not have a meaningful effect. It seems inflation is approaching at 7%. The fact that inflation is 3 and a half times higher than in 2003, and with almost 50% generates food and utility services. For our citizens with a net average income, the effect of inflation is at the level. I speak for those with net average incomes is 4 and a half percent, and for the population is almost 10%. My question is whether this budget rebalance provides sufficient opportunity and quality solutions to address such problems. We in the Croatian People's Party argue that no, because that gives would not feel the identical fatigue of our citizens from waiting for better times and tiredness from the transition that has lasted 18 years in Croatia with constantly announced but still unrealised changes. Unrealised changes that have begun to be made, which have unfortunately begun to create one collective lethargy and literally reduce the positive potential of our citizens, whom they certainly have and who are present with them. The state in which the country is located, and this shows this budget rebalance is solely due to the lack of vision and economic strategy, unpreparedness and not the involvement of its own resources. Key sectors of energy, agriculture all these years have been completely neglected. The government has not prepared a single programme for a million hectares of unused, unworked countries and we are completely unprepared for European standards. Because if she had prepared any program today, they wouldn't be talking about a million acres of untapped and untapped land. The fact that it is a key indicator for the first semester shows that the state has not found effective measures to mitigate the shock of food and energy prices. For example, in the first three months of 2008, it imported into the agricultural and food industries of $585 million of products and goods. One data from yesterday. It is now imported to freshly 150 tonnes of fresh pig's half and the same moment as they crossed the border, the same moment for pig producers the price per meat unit fell from 20 limes to 17, at the same time. Because we have a system? We don't. The reform of state administration, health reform and the social system, decentralisation of Croatia, restructuring of shipbuilding, agriculture, restructuring of the energy system and other necessary reform procedures will be extremely difficult to achieve under the conditions of reducing economic activities that are unfortunately real and visible. Essentially, our real option is resolved only by a strong economy, by the growth of an investment strategy and by identifying and using reserves. Strategic investment in energy, food, water, environmental programmes must be linked to increased investment in education. Most of these investments can be realised through a public private partnership without including the public debt budget, but I must especially stress this with the long-term borrowing of ownership of systems and natural resources. So, with the retention of sovereignty. These facts and this rebalance of the 2008 budget do not provide clear answers to essential measures other than firefighting. We at the Croatian People's Party club believe that our country's largest reserve today is in the ability to manage the state. So, in changing the way the Government of the Republic of Croatia works. I'm not talking about changing government. I am talking about changing the way the Government of the Republic of Croatia works. This change is possible to address not only the issue of energy and food, the economic development strategy, the regional development strategy, but also all other necessary elements for the construction of the state, the country of equal opportunities for all our citizens. One of the most picturesque examples is the construction of highways. At the time of the coalition government, construction, price and quality deadlines were observed. Today, we have already in continuity for five years that our construction deadlines are twice as long, that our price per kilometer is twice as high and that mileage is built twice as much. With the construction price rising from 4 million to 8m euros per km, although the prices of materials and work have increased only 15%. The fact that from year to year, the macro-economic perfomanses and real potential, the retention of the current lifestyle and rhythm of our citizens' consumption spends 4 billion euros a year, but 4 billion euros that we make up for selling family silver. And a long-term key question arises, how long are we going to keep the state's real sovereignty by selling out family silver? We in the Croatian People's Party believe that this budget rebalance does not provide an answer to this very crucial and extremely important issue either. Since Croatia still eats under quotes its own future, we in the Croatian People's Party will not support this budget rebalance.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12616	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12617	Thank you very much. Well, a respected colleague incorrectly stated: “The government of the Republic of Croatia was reluctant to welcome an increase in energy and food prices on the world market.” The government has made short- and long-term measures for which it has received a positive assessment of the International Forum. Of the characterological measures, just to remind myself of the increase in the non-taxable part of income, to mention only fuel subsidies, to mention only energy subsidies, or to blue diesel. Let me just mention that in this rebalancing budget for the field of social care, the new 156 million kuna is also part of the preparation for rising food and energy prices. From long-term measures, I would just like to mention the decline of the government budget deficits that is the most important long-term measure. As the minister said today, one percentage point would mean 2.8 billion kuna expenditure more. The decline in unemployment is also a long-term measure, an increase in industrial production, etc. Therefore, the quote is entirely to blame.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12618	Second Amendment, Mr. Representative Zeljko Turk.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12619	Mr. Chairman, I am taking the opportunity to correct the incorrect allegations of fellow MPs by quoting the finding he said, among other things, the economic activity is being reduced. It is incorrect to reduce economic activity in this country, all relevant indicators speak the opposite. From the real growth of the economy sector to 4% to 4 billion euros direct investment in the green field system in Croatia at this time. Within the business zone, over 300 people on a large part create new employment conditions, and I end up with thirty thousand more employees, or so much reduction in unemployment can only be the result of economic growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12620	An individual debate. Ms. Representative Vesna Buterin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12621	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. The budget is a programme document that clearly reflects the government's strategic thinking and direction of movement. The 2008 budget ensures continuity in the construction of Croatia as a country of economic development and progress, uniform regional development, competitive strength, knowledge and excellence, social justice and European Union countries. Thus, these amendments and additions to the state budget represent the continuity and implementation of that policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It should be pointed out at the outset that changes and additions to the 2008 budget have been adopted in a macroeconomic environment where positive developments in the real economy continue in early 2008 and, for example, industrial production has increased by 3.6% in the first 5 months. This favourable movement was also followed by positive trends in the labour market, so in May 2008, the total number of registered unemployed persons at the international level was reduced by 11.6%, or 30 thousand 589 fewer persons, and here I would like to emphasise one very important fact that thanks to the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 2007 the historical lowest rate of polling unemployment of 9.6% was achieved in the Republic of Croatia. A further reduction in the unemployment rate is expected this year. In an extremely difficult situation, the global financial market crisis situation and the high oil and other energy prices situation in 2008 are expected to see a real growth in the gross domestic product of 4.5%. The 2008 State budget rebalancing is based on planned macroeconomic developments in the rest of the year and on the achievements of revenue so far in 2008. According to the new plan, total revenues for 2008 amount to $118.4 billion and increase by 8.8% or 9.6 billion compared to the 2008 budget plan by 2.5 billion kuna. The total revenues are the revenues of operations planned in the amount of EUR 118.1 billion, in which the most significant tax revenues of HRK 67.6 billion and the proceeds from the sale of non-financial assets amounting to HRK 357.4 million, which increased by HRK 51 million compared to the original plan. This increase in revenue is focused on programmes that primarily encourage economic growth and what is extremely important reduce the impact of global trends on population standards. I will only list here some of the measures that the government has taken in this direction and which are directly reflected in the 2008 budget rebalancing itself. Amendments to the Income Tax Act increase the non-taxable share of income from a thousand 600 to a thousand 800 kuna, reducing the tax burden on the population's income and thus directly increasing purchasing power. On the other hand, since this income tax of units of local and regional regional self-government has also been amended by law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government and thus the state budget has financed this measure of reducing income tax towards the population. Furthermore, the budget also provides for a new activity relating to structural support to the population and economy sector of 600 million kuna. These support aims to reduce the impact of global market developments that are primarily reflected in price rises. This government recognised the importance of investing in small and medium-sized enterprises because it is the segment that is the generator of economic growth, increasing employment and competitiveness. Thus, 48% more budgets are allocated to specific programmes for the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises in 2008 compared to the previous year. The 2008 budget pays particular attention to the development of export-oriented enterprises, allocates significant resources for the construction of entrepreneurship infrastructure, etc. This rebalancing, the above investments continue to be carried out, but additional resources are being allocated for development support programmes, primarily the processing industry, in line with the objectives set out in the document of the industrial policy of the Republic of Croatia in preparation for membership in the European Union of 138 million kuna. Here, in my presentation, I have referred to several important points that are highlighted in this rebalancing process, so I would like to stress in the end that I fully support the amendment and addition of the State Budget for the Republic of Croatia for 2008. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12622	Thank you. Mr. Representative Andrew Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12623	... Dear Ministers, this is another good budget and if we are not politicizing but we are really looking at indicators, then we will say that in the global crisis caused by the mortgage loans of American banks, the cause of that price of oil in the world market, the food prices caused by the dry season in the cereals regions, etc. [[The speaker was subsequently turned on.]] The government of the Republic of Croatia manages to endure and make a budget that remains both social and developmental, manages to increase gross national income, not at the pace of last year, but follows the tourist season and I believe in a better result at the end of the year. Most importantly, the industrial production index continues to grow by 3.6%, which is the cornerstone of the development of the Croatian economy. Gross national income by 4.5%. The number of unemployed is lower again by 30,000 which encourages and certainly contributes both to the country's economic and social progress. And most importantly, the government has managed to regain the deficit of the state budget and thus demonstrate that, despite these difficult conditions, global conditions, conditions in the region, environment and beyond, it can implement its policy of stable financing of state revenue and expenditure and thus prove not only that it is up to all the governments of the associations we want to enter, but that it is also ready with a very strong monetary policy, a very solid fiscal policy to support further development of the Croatian economy. And these are indicators that need to be encouraged, and because of it, the revenues are again higher. I would take the opportunity here and warn them of perhaps one illogicality that we often highlight, which is that poor coverage of exports is 49%. That's not true, of course. If we're looking at only the goods exports, then that's true. But the overall account also looks at the export of services in which Croatia and it is good and positive, surpasses the export of goods. They're also looking at transfers. When we add it all together, then the coverage of Croatian imports is 87% and therefore we fall within the very top of the transition countries. Is that the way to look? I think you should, because if you only look at the export of goods then the poorest country of Greece is because it covers its imports with only 29% of its exports. But with the export of services, it covers over 94%. So, once and for all, we should find a common denominator, a common language, and not repeat an old socialist flossula that exports are only goods exports. Conversely, today the export of services is much more important, more quality and more permanent and safer than the export of goods. Such a policy has increased revenue as we know on the tax side. I've already pointed out here in one of the corrections of the wrong allegations, what makes me particularly happy with profit tax. Although our rate is low, profit tax in total is becoming more important in income and profit tax has risen by 4% again, which means that economic activity is very much alive. I further point out the increase in customs duties. Customs revenues increased 7.6%, contributions increased again for both health and pension. And here you should say something and object to the need to reduce contributions to health care and social care. I wouldn't agree with that, because we have our own experience when we're reducing 2% of the health contributions HZO has entered into heavy debt and one of the banks' loans by over 2 billion kuna. Both health care and pensions are just budget subsidies, so if it reduces that rate, of course, it will increase its subsidies and we'll spill from hollow to empty. I think that health reform is needed, not a reduction in contributions, and only after the health reform and the replacement of funds from contributions to other sources of funding can the employer be relieved and the contribution to health can be reduced. The contribution to healthcare can therefore be reduced, but after reforming the entire funding system. On the side of expenditure, of course, especially those who love health care should be thanked to the government and stressed that she had a sense of health and, of course, through that life of citizens and citizens of this country, because over half of the surplus income went back to health. That's a billion and 400 million kuna. Of course, 600 million kuna should also be commended for subsidising all these unfavourable movements in energy that will be greatly caused by the global crisis, this injection will greatly reduce the impact of negative consequences on the lives of our citizens. It's been mentioned a little bit, but more than 500 million are being poured into the economy again. And that's 73% more than ever, especially when it comes to the most endangered parts of the economy, the leather and textile industries. It may also be too little to point out that health care has been a very good success in social care. Because when we look at the welfare side, the revenues in this budget are increased, and it will feel like the standard of citizens and the most vulnerable citizens. In fact, revenues have increased by 156 million kuna. I'll just specify some of the items. The care aid allowance increased by 3.9%, the personal disability compared to the previous plan for 2008. 8.1%, right to parent status for as much as 24.5% compared to the existing plan. So these are increasingly important support for the potential endangerment of the socially most sensitive layers in terms of the deterioration of their standard. And here we come to the health care that is certainly in this budget of the topic that will most be mentioned here, because again we have put a billion and 400 million kunas into health care, which is just a little bit of the problem that exists. And the problem with health care is next. The increase in the price of services in healthcare is far higher than the increase in gross national income and the increase in the percentage of budgeting, not in Croatia, but in all countries of Europe and of course beyond. Why is the increase in health prices higher than the rise in gross national income and the rise in the state budget? Because new technologies that want to improve citizens' health have kicked out and thrown out more and more expensive medicines from year to year, more expensive diagnostic methods, more and more recent equipment whose price is rising by 10% per year. This cannot be followed by any budget and therefore no healthcare in Europe, except for the Croatians, has been financed exclusively from the budget. And in this rebalancing we saw that there was this problem. In part, we have solved it well with a billion and 400 million, but I fear very temporarily what we will see by the end of the year because to collect prices of medicines and diagnostic methods this year it will also need to add energy collection and food collection and the collection of the price of material medical expenses in terms of medical products and, of course, the increase in labour prices under the collective agreement. What is good is that 500 million out of these billions and 400 are directly poured into hospital debt, and another 500 million actually undermines the increase in the limit made by the minister in a very good combination, which means that the increase in the limit has been linked to a more conscious business, which means a more rational business of the administration means the hospital, so he increased the limit, but he also tied it to a more quality management. And I believe, Mr. Minister, that the first results will be fully clear and visible by the end of July, and the minister will also have a full justification for the replacement of individual directors. I say 10% of directors don't run a high-quality hospital, and that's why ten percent of hospitals are always in severe dubiosis, and on the other hand we have hospitals of the same category, the same rank that operate with a relatively small loss. Therefore, this combination of 500 million kuna injections to increase the limit with increased responsibility of the management is an excellent combination and will produce results and I believe that this is the best introduction to the upcoming reform. And in conclusion, I support this budget, not only because it is developmental, not only because it is social, but also because the government has shown that on very difficult global economic occasions it can keep the Croatia Development Strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12624	Thank you. A few replicas. First, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12625	Thank you very much. Listening to Mr. Hebrang like this, we just can't believe it, like we're living in another country. And there is not a tradition of always an apology and the reasons why negative trends happen with us, so that is always the reason of course somewhere else, not with us, but in the world, mortgage loans, energy prices, etc. But Mr Hebrang, do in other European countries have the same conditions as Croatia. So if so, why is inflation about 3.3% in European countries and 6.4% in Croatia? So would you have the same response to inflation from both 12 and 15, and 25%, if that was always the reason for the price of energy, or mortgage loans from America. And another thing. How competitive our economy is and how favourable the situation for the Croatian economy is, it says that over the past 5 years, the negative balance of payments for Croatia is growing and in the first 5 months of this year we have a negative balance of €27.9 billion compared to last year, which is approximately € 4.9 billion more. So much for how competitive we are and how much this budget and this government is creating a business environment favourable to the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12626	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12627	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, I've been reading statistics from this country. You've been following the statistics of other countries, so it's not bad to compare them a little. This country has come out of a 10-year war. You'll say, so what then, and I'll say, no, because in this budget over 10% of the expenditure goes to the rescue of the consequences of the war. Add that to your neighbours whose national budgets you have analyzed, and you will see that Croatia has made a huge step. Gather all these books you've got, and sum up all the expenses for the consequences of the war. Not only the defenders, but still for what's been brought down in the war and for what's indirect and direct damage, so you'll see that 10% of this budget still goes to harm, to war damage. So when you compare the neighbors and us, then compare our recent history, if you remember. Secondly, it is not true that inflation in Croatia is higher than in other countries. Inflation in Croatia is smaller than the transition countries and one part more stable countries, such as some of our neighbouring countries, you well know which ones I mean. Therefore, inflation in Croatia is not above the average of transition countries. Of course it's above Germany and Italy, but I'm afraid they won't be long either. And the third thing you said. It's someone else's fault. It's not our fault, it's nobody's fault. We're only guilty of oil, which in your term was five times cheaper than today, and your budget was three times smaller than today. And that's why I praise this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12628	Next replica, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12629	Comrade Hebrang, I sincerely hope that you have managed to convince citizens who live badly, that they are actually phenomenal, because the situation is such that it can't be better. This comes about from your speech, and citizens should actually be overjoyed that their prices are growing every day, which is their ability to buy goods and services every day less and more difficult for them to live. Your whole speech actually represents a form of manipulation of data selection, of those who fit you and based on it embellishing a picture of reality that isn't really like that. For example, you point out that income from profit tax is to grow 4%, but you do not say that inflation is almost 7%, so that the costs of inflation not only ate this income from profit tax, but that it is still below almost 3%. You praise the government's social measures to increase electricity prices, and what you're going to say to the Dalmatians. They're heating up on electricity because there's no gasification in that area. They have no other choice. They'll spend far more than 2,000 kilowatt hours, because they have to, because they have to heat up. So how are you going to justify these allegedly wonderful government social measures to raise electricity prices? They only have two choices, either to freeze or to pay 24% more. But that's what they should be told. Tell them, we didn't do gasification, which we don't care about you, we don't have solutions for you, pay for it. You say inflation in this country, like in transition countries or smaller, so don't compare it. Compare how much inflation there was until you came to power in 2003. Compare with this, because these fewer inflation rates meant a better life for the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12630	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12631	Thank you very much. My colleague Stazic really hates numbers and he's terribly offended when they're positive. In the last five years, the ones that were negative in four years before that. And that's where I fully understand you, but your number is still politically neutral. And when we say that you left behind 7% of the government budget deficit, and that every percentage point is 2.8 billion kuna, and that's why we couldn't cut the VAT, because we had to make up for that debt of yours that you made, it hurts. But I can't do anything about it. It won't hurt much longer, because you won't get a chance to make those mistakes again. As far as profit and inflation tax ratios are concerned, the profit tax is growing incomparably faster than inflation is growing, look at this budget and that's good. It's also good that, incomparably faster than inflation, the salary is still growing, look at the average salary. It is also good that the standard is reduced compared to last year, but not by any chance, not nearly as much as the surrounding conditions are reduced, macroeconomicly, when you see how much fuel prices have increased, how much food prices have increased on the world market, then you will see that the standard in Croatia has not increased by this percentage but significantly less. And the government is tasked with putting out the fire, it can't put out the world's fire, but it can reduce the fire in the Republic of Croatia. And it bothers you that even in such a difficult global crisis, we bring the budget rebalance positive and we increase the items unlike your rebalancing rebalancing items, I understand you and I understand your deep sadness.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12632	Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12633	My colleague Hebrang, you said that this rebalancing especially goes hand in hand in the field of social care. You see, in this session, the procedure included the proposal for a law on compensation for the blind, therefore, in the blindness given in the procedure by the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. We've received the government's opinion that this proposal is being rejected. I would say that in Albania, this blinding allowance is 80 euros, in Serbia 175 euros, in Bosnia and Herzegovina 175 euros, Slovenia 300 euros, Germany 500, France 715 euros and in Croatia 38 or 54 euros. So within the range of 280 to 400 kuna per month. I was hoping that this rebalancing would find 12 million kunas as long as it takes a month to reduce the tragic position in which those people are blind. In Croatia, the bill would therefore cover around 550 people. So it's not about such a big group or so much money that it wouldn't be possible for me in this rebalancing so that this proposal that's right at this session isn't accepted in this House. As you can see, this rebalancing does not go into the hands of social care, even if not to those who are most vulnerable to this criterion, which are blind people.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12634	The answer to the line, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12635	Thank you very much. As for social care, she got a new 156 million kuna colleague, so she definitely won and didn't lose. You try to turn the subject into a sentimental area now, so I'll replicate it to you, prove you've got the wrong information. The government did not refuse to add to blindness because it would not have a feeling for people who have severe visual impairment, but because the government has started to make a strategy for all the difficult people, for all the categories, according to European guidelines. And it wouldn't be good if one category were to be singled out and solved with 120 and some million kunas a year, as long as it takes, and other categories of people with disabilities to stay neglected. It is not true that the difference as you stated in the receipts for people with impaired vision between Croatia and Albania and others is as stated in the receipts for people with impaired vision between Croatia and Albania and others as you stated because in Croatia there are several dozen sources from which they receive, so you must add it all up. They receive from HZZO, they receive from the disability insurance fund, etc., when you add it all together, then the picture is a little different. And that is why it is necessary to standardise all such social care expenditure, and the government is making it and will soon come up with a complete proposal for such resolution. And what might yet have to be said that data manipulation has never given political success because this people know what the data is, they feel the consequences of these figures, and that's why I don't think any of the manipulations you're applying... Can you give me a word to speak, please? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] A colleague is not used to parliamentary discipline, so he should be taught. I'm telling you that your manipulations of data will not fall to fertile soil, because our citizens, read voters, and certainly educate and feel and see what is happening in countries around them, what is happening in the countries of the former Yugoslavia, what is happening in transition countries and what is happening in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12636	Madam Representative, Dear Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12637	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, I'd like to be as optimistic as a colleague of Hebrang who spoke before me. And I want to say that both I and every citizen and every member of my club are looking forward to any progress that is going on in Croatia because what kind of citizens we would be if we were not happy about progress. However, as certain data are read, how they are manipulated on one side and on the other side of the island, and I would not enter that controversy. So in my debate, I will focus only on this rebalancing, therefore, not on the overall budget, because we discussed it when it was discussed and only stick to this data and figures that were given and those that were not given in the reasoning of this budget rebalancing. So why am I saying this doesn't make me happy and that we have no reason to be optimistic? Because overall incomes are largely increased in revenue, they mostly result from value added tax, which is actually the result of an increase in prices. Why do I say that? Because we see that trade traffic is only 2.2% higher. This means that our citizens are so in charge that they can no longer achieve through purchasing power such a growth in traffic in trade as it was in previous years. It is also seen at our growth rate, which is planned from 4.5% and in which still one part or one significant part actually participates and consumption as it was and when there were high rates of GDP growth, it means that there will be a slowdown. If, at this point, the citizens, therefore, were in charge of 115 billion kuna somewhere in April, then that seems to be the upper limit to which they can be owed in relation to wages. So if these revenues were the result of a high rate of growth in industrial production, and they are not because it is only 3.6% growth. And we can't compare to growth or industry, or GDP with the developed West because we're on a low base, our base is low, and we need high growth rates. We need accelerated industrial production because it is the only way to reduce the negative effects of imports, excessive imports from the Croatian economy. So these are the data that are given in the explanation, therefore, through the macroeconomic framework. And what is not stated? We're missing public debt data. I'm not going to say that as there was a debate here a few years ago about bankruptcy, about "argentinal" syndrome, about I don't know the responsibility of a small child, but I'm going to say that it's a worrying condition. We can say that the debt of the central state is shrinking. And it's shrinking, and here's the data that's been released recently to 80, slightly less than $86 billion, that's reduced by $400 million, and that the guarantees have increased by 21.8%, and now they're $17.28 billion. A good part, a good part of these guarantees can come at the expense of the state. But the debt of the extra budget funds is 16.48 billion. That's, that's the Ministry of Finance's data and it's increased by 2.37 billion kuna. So we still have to look at what our public debt is, what our internal debt is, what our external debt is. There's no explanation for what our foreign trade balance is like. Our stock exchange deficit is growing year after year. Last year we ended up with $13 and a half billion, a dollar deficit. In this year we will continue this negative trend at least according to forecasts or how it is realized for the first quarter. So these are all data that can't have the basis for optimism. I agree that the export of services should be counted. The current balance is also bad. We're making about $3 billion a year of current balance deficits, and it's actually a debt next year because we don't cover it from our own economic activities. What worries is that we don't have any good, we don't predict what can happen to us in six months, in a year. In the middle of last year, the governor of the Croatian National Bank announced an inflation growth. Our government has even had a critical reaction to his stand. So in the middle of last year, we started preparing for inflation growth, for high energy prices, that we did it at the beginning of this year, that we hadn't waited here for 6 months or maybe even more maybe we could have done something in a positive way. So you have to predict events, it works, it's done in every company. This has to be done in the country. And try to advance some trends if possible and if objectively possible. I know the minister will say import, high imports that it has no impact on VAT collection. There is. Because VAT is charged at the time of import. Then, when they return, it is technology, but when the goods are sold, when the goods are sold, they will be charged. It will be charged at the store and if we didn't have such an enormous import and a trade deficit we wouldn't have had this VAT growth. And now just a few sentences about what happened now in this budget rebalancing? So of these revenue of 2.4 billion kuna as much as we plan to collect more, it's more than 50% planned to collect through VAT collection. At the same time, the interesting situation is that we plan less to collect from excise duties on oil derivatives than we planned at the beginning of the year, not at the beginning of the year, but three months ago when we were making the state budget. What does that mean? That means it's going to reduce fuel consumption. In other words, fuel consumption will be reduced. Well, the VAT revenue has so far increased by an absolute amount by half a gallon per litre of sold gasoline since the price has increased so much. And where will you end up with this big income? So it will end up covered by debts not planned in the initial budget. So a billion and 400 million kunas, so more than they'll get from VAT, will end up in health care debt, and that's still not enough. So there's no saying that it's going to go into some kind of development projects because inflation and price growth never end up in the development component as a development. And as for these aids to the citizens, I think it would be smarter if they were planned at the Ministry of Health and Social Care through the Social Care Centres, to increase the basis for social giving that hasn't increased already here for the seventh year, and then to be directed precisely at those who need these funds and thus end up here, in the government they don't know until the end because they're not sure whether this way of covering or subsidising electricity prices is good or it's going to change by the end of the year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12638	Correction of an incorrect quote by Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12639	Thank you very much. And I can't help but correct at least a few incorrect allegations because what my colleague said doesn't stand. They say the total debt of the state is reduced, but the guarantees are increased. But you should watch for what? It's not true they've been increased. They are not indirectly increased because they are guarantees that are given to the most part of the shipbuilding and which will be returned. These are not guarantees that are permanent as long-term. These are therefore guarantees for production and for companies that produce and are not guarantees for private companies as we have had the opportunity to have one of the previous governments in office. The second thing that's incorrect is we haven't prepared ourselves for a price hike. So we're preparing to raise prices from the first day of HDZ's mandate. Imagine if we hadn't prepared ourselves, that we'd left the budget deficit 7% as you had it and that we'd now welcomed a price hike with that deficit. It's also not true that we haven't prepared ourselves because we've raised the foundation of social welfare from 400 to 500 kuna. We've also increased our rebalance now by 156 million social care expenditure. So these are all the preparations that are long-term and which are thanks to God after all.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12640	Ms. Representative Vesna Škulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12641	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to share Mr. Hebrang's optimism, but unfortunately, I always speak for those who are truly and truly and truly and worthy of the minimum, so I'm going to do it today. Otherwise, as far as they're concerned, especially the blind don't have any number manipulation. What my colleague Jurjevic said is really not true but is very, very big and difficult and painful truth. I hope my colleague Kunst does not accuse me of correcting the incorrect allegations of seduction of folk masses as a colleague of Opačić when speaking on behalf of the club, but I will be talking about people's masses that are being underestimated in various ways, and starting with frauds such as the rebalancing of the state budget. So, I ask the masses to immediately correct me if they feel seduced and introduced into political plots, at least as far as I'm concerned. So, I will answer on my behalf and as far as the masses are concerned. From the masses, I will focus my debate on the largest minority group, which are people with disabilities. According to Finance Minister Mr. Shucker, citizens live well in this formula, because it does not write one number, but quite another, and which ultimately ordinary citizens don't care how rebalancing is written, or how it is calculated. I think they want to know how much their income is a month. And he doesn't care about the reason he has to fight every day to survive himself and his family. Mr. Minister, it has already been said that this budget has been filled well by VAT. So, from the same people you're bringing back to right now... to make it easier for us to live. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what does that mean? How even so easy to live with 1000 to 1600 kuna and with these 200 kuna increases in personal disability can we not talk about increasing standards. I think it is really underestimating this group of Croatian citizens and their dignity. Please explain how a person in a wheelchair who needs help from another person and has no personal assistant, because she did not enter the pilot project of a personal assistant lives alone and is ideally conditioned, and who has an apartment or house can survive with such a low disability. So, assuming that it belongs to that category that will consume less than 2,000 kilowatt hours of electricity annually, its cost of living is over 4000 kuna per month. The minimum overhead costs are 600 kuna. The payment of the help hour in the house is from 25 kuna an hour to more. Most of the hygienic and medical preparations necessary for HZZO are not covered, and nothing has yet been purchased from food and hygiene supplies. We are one of the first countries to ratify the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and this convention is in force since 3 May of this year. I don't see any means in this rebalancing that should ensure the implementation of that convention. Do we have to wait for a new budget for next year? The convention is not colourful feathers to be giddyed with, but is a set of certain rules under which signatories are required to behave. How will a mother who has obtained the status of a nurse and care for her child who is ill 24 hours a day behave, and the state has estimated 2200 kuna per month, and the institution for even less work for the same child, since there is no concern about the parents’ care of about 12,000 kuna per month. People with disabilities don't even enjoy the minimum standard of a decent man's life and it's time to finally do something about it. The entire system that should protect this category needs to be pushed. We have mechanisms, ways, laws, so let's start them already. The convention goes, but the mechanism, but it's obviously too expensive for you to run that mechanism or have no idea. Even the draft budget in this rebalancing does not provide the means to implement at least the key elements of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, starting with the right to a decent life, because with the incomes that people with disabilities have, it is impossible to live at all, let alone afford the luxury of dignity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12642	Thank you. Replica, Ms. Ljubica Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12643	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here I have to react to the presentation of my colleague, Škulic. She well noted colleague Škulić that the Republic of Croatia is one of the first countries to sign the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. This year, the Convention entered into force on 3 May, and the Republic of Croatia, or the Government, is doing its utmost to raise the lives and standards of people with disabilities to the highest possible level. Today, it was moving here to listen to many exposures about increasing social benefits. I must say, we all know that the base is increasing this year. It probably won't be quite enough, but we all know very well, so you colleagues, too, that social care is going into reform this year. Today it is said that social care is not going into reform, that reform is not being carried out. We know that the Social Care Act must be made by next summer, and that then we are able to say so to equalize the opportunities of persons with disabilities with all other persons and I invite both colleagues and give our maximum. And what the government is doing now is commendable and we just have to remember how we lived 10 years ago. I'm talking about the two of us co-workers. We know it very well, and we know it for all other people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12644	Reply to the replica of Ms. Vesna Škulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12645	So like this, colleague Lukacic, I don't want to remember how I lived 10 years ago, but I want to ensure life for those who will live in the future, so 10 years from now. I want to give them a decent life, and I think it's in the interest of both of you and me. I'm not gonna put my life on the line to talk about how I lived, how I didn't have it. Of course, I would be very, very sad if the present generation lived the way you and I lived 10 years ago. But does the government really do everything? If it's all according to the pilot project system, the working groups and everything else, then really if you think it's all me congratulating you. I think people with disabilities will also be very happy and that everyone will live very, very well in the happy future. However, as for equating the rights of all persons with disabilities, I think the Government should have done so long ago, long ago in 2004 as the National Strategy from 2003 to 2006 predicted. Unfortunately, except for the task force that was founded then nothing was done. As far as social reforms are concerned, they have been going for several years, and work groups are being established all the time, which are their purpose. Like the government commission that spent 200 kuna in the first 6 months of this year, then so much for their work and other government bodies working for the benefit of people with disabilities. Unfortunately, I wouldn't want to do it because of the impression, or the political impression that we're having, how people with disabilities live, and I think they know it best, and you and I also know very well what it means to live on a thousand kunas, from 300 kunas and to a thousand kunas at most. If you can live with dignity and all your expenses are covered, it's an honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12646	Ms. Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12647	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, both ministers with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Well, obviously, today on these two sides we're reading different numbers, and I'm going to show satisfaction at the beginning of what it is to talk about this rebalancing budget that records growth. Here, I'm going to repeat some numbers for memory and recording, so I have to say that here at the very beginning of 2008, the year we're talking about increased industrial production by 3.6%, construction works increased in the first quarter by 10.2%, which is obviously also talking about some kind of investment in both the economy and the development. In the first 4 months, real trade growth has increased by 2.2%, only the first four months are this year. Unemployment has been reduced, leading at all to a greater increase in this rebalancing by 2.5 billion kuna, and when we look at 2007 the budget has already been increased by 9.6 billion kuna or 8.8%. It is good that the government has recognised and directed this increase into those segments of society and those programmes that primarily encourage both economic growth and regional development. I come from a county that really expects help, still help, here today we hear that 10% of the costs still apply to war damage, I come from a county that was 52% covered by a war in which every day more and more invested in infrastructure and precisely in this regional development on special state care. That is why the 200 million kuna received by the ministry of strengthening this particular area of state care and regional development is extremely important. Of course, today we have heard our citizens, and because of these trends and price hikes, it is a good thing that this rebalancing government is also trying to reduce the impact on citizens' standards and try to help citizens to cope with this situation by means of a series of measures. The basic deduction has been increased. We have recently discussed amendments to the Income Tax Act and the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government, these support for the mitigation of energy prices, and we will be reminded of a whole series of family support. And we have to remember them and remind ourselves, yesterday we talked about maternity benefits and parental fees in the afternoon and we saw that they cost a lot of the state budget. We can't even forget that. It is certainly also important to underline in particular, and it is good that this budget is allocated to 138 million kunas to promote small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and this is to support the processing industry, the most vulnerable, textile, wood-processing industry. I mentioned regional development, and about tourism which, right now, is going to experience, I think the biggest rise of the year is in these summer months and as a significant economic branch, and there's a piece of encouragement the government has felt in this rebalancing. Hebrang and several colleagues also talked about investing in health, so I wouldn't talk about it, but what I've been doing all my time is investing in science and education and this area. In 2008, when we were bringing this budget, we saw that the budget was increased by 8.7% or 933 million kuna at the beginning of the year. If we follow the increase in the budget since 2003 when the education budget was around 7 billion 785 million kuna and this one was adopted in 2008. 11 billion 715 million kuna and I'm not even going to mention this 334 million if we add this rebalancing then we'll see that the budget for education and science is now going to be somewhere more than 12 billion kuna. In accordance with the government's policy and the social partnership agreements with salaries for educators, I will also so popularly say by signing 2006 with three majority unions of collective agreements, funds for salary increases are provided. But it's natural that neither my educators nor my colleagues are satisfied ever, and it's likely that this salary increase can be made at once, but it's evident that the wages in the field have grown. I would be more pleased if I had put on an item I would now read to be able to transfer to the Ministry of Education to pay, which is an item of 22 million kuna and 500 thousand kuna which, colleagues and colleagues, has been spent on obligations and for settlements and only interest on outstanding regresses and shift debt work since 2003. And I am grateful once again to my colleagues and colleagues who agreed to a deal with the ministry and thus contributed to the state budget because there was no interest, there were no billable interest on those legal commitments which in 2003, i.e. in early 2004, welcomed this government and I must tell you, the debts have not yet been paid back because some of them have not even been completed and there will be an additional million kuna on interest and executions. As we have provided free textbooks for all primary school students and first grade students last year, so it is necessary to increase for this purpose, and this rebalancing is what we do, funds are also provided for the public interurban transportation of high school students in the area of special state care for 30 million kuna. I hope that this law, which will soon be discussed by a special law on the area of particular interest or special state care, will also improve the situation because some other incentives, I believe, will be adopted by this law. And how interesting is another when you study small budgets since 2001, '02, '03. then you see that for higher education, it may not be when you read the budget now for this current year, but from 2003 to 2008 the higher education budget increased by 65%. And compared to 2007 this year for 8.8%. And as you can see if you are reading the budget and proposal for rebalancing for the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports then you can see that it is also increasing to build and equip school facilities and invest in teaching equipment. So somehow the funds are in the amount of about 65 million kuna, maybe not enough. It seems to me that my colleague Pupovac was saying that we still need to invest a lot, but if you look at the other ministry that cares again about this area of special state care, the Ministry of Regional Development, forestry and water economy and on their items you also have items relating to the equipment and construction of school facilities, so when you put it all together, then you see that it is really investing in this part of education. Here I think there will never be enough investment in science and education, but that this government, we must admit, has made a very big step in this area and that, with every budget and every budget rebalance, is increasingly investing in the field of education and science, above all as a basis, as a special interest in the Republic of Croatia. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12648	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12649	You're telling your colleagues incorrectly that a huge amount of this country must pay for the regresses made for the governments of 2000-2003. It's a small amount compared to that huge amount of lawlessness that happened in the '90s and that's still being dragged. And they're rolling in our courts with huge interest rates for unfounded job layoffs that, for a 10-year trial since, say, the 34 thousand-year-olds came out on average between 600 and 700 thousand kunas for houses that were more common than birds flew into the air in the '90s. [[Intruder: Collars.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12650	It's not a correction, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12651	For all those fees, they're huge amounts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12652	Please. That's not a correction to the quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12653	I know you don't want to talk about this topic, but this Croatia is paying dearly today.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12654	My colleagues, please. That claim was not made by Mrs. Roksandić, so you couldn't even correct it. ... You couldn't fix it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You couldn't correct the absence... Please, you couldn't correct the nonexistent claim. ... Replications. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mr. Representative Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12655	So I think that colleague Roksandić has actually correctly detected that there are claims of certain employees in higher education and elsewhere to be paid. They were created in different periods, but I know that a colleague is not the right address to ask her questions, but here's the question, especially the government. And why, if it's clear that this has to be paid, that debt exists, why not pay and avoid interest and expenses, but continue to conduct procedures over 4.5 years?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12656	I didn't talk about debt recovery in high science and this...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12657	Okay, is there any order here... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12658	Oh, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12659	Here you are, the answer to the replica... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12660	I wasn't talking about any... in high science than in high school and primary school education, but I'll tell you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Do you know why such a relationship occurred and these debts and demand? Because educators were just over the deadline within which they could press charges, which was somewhere just in December 2003 when they could no longer receive more because the new government had entered the mandate of these debts. And you know when the 2004 budget was passed that the government was only taken over in December so the government had a provisional budget. During that period, the government couldn't repay those huge debts because by the month of March, you and I were sitting here together and the government was working and making only a real budget somewhere in early 2004. So she didn't have the means to repay the debt. You also know that in the provisional budget these funds could not have been planned. When the system was entered by the Ministry of Science in general, it was seen how many millions of kunas of outstanding liabilities remained, signed but signed with the former ministry and unions towards secondary and primary school employees. That's why people were sued immediately in December because they knew they'd have to get it. And the court proceedings went on. ... Well, the government has settled, I have that data, the government has settled the debts, but now the interest is coming. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12661	Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12662	Dear colleagues, Roksandic, this budget of the Ministry of Science and Education is nothing more than one big deception and an incompetence of the ministry's incompetence. All the increase of 334 million kuna came from several items. First, the amount for salaries in primary and secondary schools, at higher schools, schools and universities as well as for the transport of students and free textbooks. All these obligations were known by the government in the third month of the budget. All of it. Why didn't it put into the budget then? So that we can boast in a rebalancing manner about how we increase resources. On the other hand, over 50 million kunas have reduced all the major changes. I can now read you a line by line item. The professional training of teachers, the development of education systems, the production of curricula, the capital investment in education less for 23 million kunas, the development of a network of secondary education programmes by 50% less, the project of decentralisation of education is 50% reduction in this rebalancing, the various models of secondary education curricula is minus almost million kunas, the revision of existing projects in secondary education of 500 thousand kunas, direct capital investments in higher education minus 12 million kunas in this rebalancing, etc., etc. This rebalancing is actually just covering holes that weren't covered when the budget was made in the 3rd month. Collect items for wages, add items for transportation and textbooks and get 380 million kunas. That's more than 334 million kuna increases.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12663	Replication response. Ms. Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12664	Well, my colleague Lugaric, I didn't expect you to say that the ministry is doing well, but I have to remind you because together we've been following this area for a long time, I really have to remind you that these 334 million and it's true what you said, I did it if you followed my exposure just detected those positions. But I'm going to tell you why there's been a decrease, and I also believe it, you know, there's been a decrease just because it's a different dynamic, the dynamics of budgeting. Because you need to know this is the budget that was made on the basis of these results in the first five months, now it's the sixth, the beginning of the seventh month, so probably on the data base from the first five months we see it from the budget. You must know, that the Public Procurement Act is strict, that some items are not carried out in the extent to which they should, precisely because of some of the things that are justified here, and I can also tell you, and I must remind you that the ministry that adds and on the wages, as you said, is also mentioned in the textbook standard, and I also mentioned this to... And I mentioned that, so he still added the funds, $334 million. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I'm going to remind you of the year 2003 when the ministry took away the rebalancing of 119 million kuna funds from education.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12665	Next replica, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12666	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mrs. Roksandić reiterated her practice by Mr. Hebrang, and that she is always returning to some retrograde stories, but when she is coming back, let her take some of the ratios that were then invested in science, higher education and primary education, and she will see then that there was a percentage of the budget of more investment in this area and another thing to try to remember the periods before 2000, so let her analyze the situation that was then with the salaries of the employees in education and the ever expensive situation in school. And when you had previously responded to fellow Josipovic about the salary and obligation that the state had towards the workers in the school system, if you could not put into the budget in 2004, you had a budget to remind you in 2005, 2006, so you could since then correct that injustice three times in the budget and pay people what they were supposed to get. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12667	Replica reply, Ms. Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12668	Well, here's a thank you. I have to tell my colleague that he kind of encouraged me to say that we always tell some retrograde stories. You know when you talk about budgets and problems like this, then you always compare yourself to someone, there's always one year ago, one behind, three, four years ago. Well, then we must always do things as a comparison. That's what you were doing, and here you are in your replica. And I'm going to remind you that this government's inherited debts since 2004, I've had these data colleagues, and I have to tell you that 332 million kunas have been paid back for shift work in primary schools. For secondary schools 241 million, for highly educated institutions and higher education, for unpaid Christmases in 2000 and 2001. So in 2004, 2005, 2006, and even the seventh one, we were paying back that debt, and I was talking about this rebalancing of my colleagues, I was only talking about interest. About the interest that came on this debt that was settled on account of the court's expenses. And we can't avoid that. And there will be more interest, because it's not all over, all these lawsuits aren't over, all the processes aren't over. And the fact that you're invoking yourself in the '90s, dear colleague, I worked at school in the '90s, and until 2000, I worked. My dear colleague, I've worked under war conditions. And don't ever compare that year's 1990s to 2001, second, third, seventh or eighth. These were specific working conditions, at least in some areas of this country, and don't constantly compare it with your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12669	Mr. Agent Iron Flego, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12670	Dear Mrs. Rocksandic, I'm afraid you're not completely satisfied with the ministry's work, and if we talked about it personally, then it would look different. Please do not forget when you talk about interest and debt, MPs and representatives and the Croatian public mention that we have left you 257 million, and you have increased this by 5 times because of interest and non-payment. That please, don't forget. And secondly, that we made a deal with the unions, that without interest the debts return, if they return to the first half for 60 million kuna, so no interest, and that wasn't even done, and that was also part of the handover file. Third, you have a completely unregulated and decapitated ministry that changes budget items within 3 months. On one side of 100% to 20%, at 23%, at 25%. On the other hand you have 950% items, out of a thousand 60%, etc., so please, we've warned you about all this together, we've had a lot of similar positions all the way to the vote, and now we have this situation that we have. I am very pleased that the budget for education is growing more than the state budget is growing, but I am terribly unhappy with the way the funds are spent, which I will talk about later in more detail.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12671	Replica reply, Ms. Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12672	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Flego, you said exactly that you left it behind, that the Ministry left the debt, you just said the wrong number. It's left exactly a billion and 158 million kunas. That's the exact number. Not like you said 257. I've got the exact figures taken out of my budget. So it's not as small as you claim. And that's why I'm going to tell you about whether I'm satisfied with the ministry's work as you said we agreed, I don't remember, we know that this ministry is making an extremely big effort to really implement all the reforms in education and we'll never be, I've said it completely satisfied, because it's done as well as in health care, in the most sensitive parts of this society that concern all citizens, which is child education and personal health care, myself and family. So these are the two really segments of society where we are the most sensitive. And there we'll all always have any objections, but we can't say and we can't bend the truth, that this debt was smaller. You signed it, it's a fact, it's a reality, collective agreements with unions. You haven't paid off a single kuna of regression, not a Santa Claus, not a shift job at the end of the year, but the truth is, these debts are left and we're paying them back now.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12673	And the last replica of Mrs. Pryce Solic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12674	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, here I am. I've had to report back and add to my other respected colleague, Roxandic, to her presentation. When we hear from the other side that there is no need to compete with what has passed, I am saying and I am sure that our citizens should be reminded and the SDP should also be reminded when they led the country and when they determined how much HEP energy should be collected to consumers. It was 2002 to remind you. You announced a 9% increase, but you deceived the Croatian people. Here's the data. You've sent over 80% of the purchases from HEP. You haven't even coordinated that collection or approved the Board of Regulators. They didn't approve either. Therefore, it is an indication to you that you are talking and data today, that you speak so much from the heart for the social category and then in 2002 when you had everything allowed, all open, without any obstacles, you have absolutely not installed those social components on 80% more expensive electricity that is clearer to everyone. And today you talk so much about the social component. This particular government has found a model and installed that social component in order to make it easier for our citizens to endure this gathering. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12675	Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12676	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, let me make one proposal from the Ministry of Finance, given the insistence of colleagues on the right hand side of the assembly to introduce another column in 2003 in such materials, so that they can be better prepared. And I would remind you that in 2000 it was a really great situation in Croatia, the economy flourished, we were open to the European Community, the world, so the debts were gone, the internal debt of the state did not exist at all, so that a truly beautiful situation in 2000, which HDZ then left to the coalition government. But okay, let me get back to this topic a little bit. In my presentation, I'm going to say why I don't think this budget rebalance is developed and why I don't think it's social and fair. When we talk about budget rebalancing, we are not just talking about the number of revenues and expenditures of the state, but we are talking about whether this planning and implementation of this budget has led to a better or worse life for our citizens. To remind the adoption of this budget was announced as an incredible venture. There was talk of an economic leap, of major economic successes, which will be the results of this budget. Further records in economic growth were announced, after 5.6% last year we should have jumped to 7.8%, at least that's how the government's campaign came up with this budget. As a result of the first half of this 2008 budget, ladies and gentlemen are the lowest economic growth in the last few years, which was only a few percentage points, i.e. just over 4%. That's why I don't think this budget rebalance just like the budget we've accepted at the beginning of the year has been developed. Practice, the practice of this is every day witnessing, means citizens feel the consequences of this budget in daily purchases and the economy slows down its growth. Perhaps an economic leap, even if the budget had been developed, would have been more invested in education and the promotion of the economy. To remind the past month, inflation was 6.4% and the lowest economic growth of 4.4% over the past few years. What are the other economic developments, that is, the economic situation resulting from this budget? The fall in real salary value occurred for the first time in months, so citizens could buy less for their money than they could buy before that. Inflation about every month for the last few months is rising at a rate of 0.7 to 1% per month and in inflation the food price is participating over the past month with 50%. We are talking about European trends and we are saying that constant external factors affect the bad economic situation, inflation in Croatia, and we can look at a little analysis of the situation in the European Union. European inflation, i.e. inflation in the European Union, was 3.6% in April, meaning almost 3 percentage points than in Croatia. And it shows a weekly reduction. Even worse, when we look at the rate of growth, or the rate of price growth in the food industry, Croatia had that rate of 10.2% in the year, meaning to our citizens who have the most basic incomes and who have to pay the costs of food housing and the basic living needs of inflation is not 6.4%, but it is over 10%. Food has collected over 10% in the last year, exactly 10.2%. And here, when we compete with European countries, we are far behind. I can say that in Portugal there is 3.2%, that I do not now list all these European countries, but Croatia is certainly lagging behind. And not to mention the relationship and salary that is in those countries that is in Croatia. In Croatia, 27% of the average salary of European Union countries is. Of course, when we look at this proposal for budget rebalancing, it is evident that these revenues are planned by 2.4 billion kunas higher than they were planned at the beginning of the year. And I must say that what we heard today during the debate, most of these revenues go from inflation, goes from VAT to imports of goods. Because someone mentioned before me we had a negative balance of payments in the first five months for 27 billion kuna, which is about 4 to 5 billion kunas more than last year. When we look at what is the absolute amount at the level of these 5 months, we can say that almost half of this VAT has been charged from this negative, i.e. the growth of the negative balance of payments, i.e. the personal consumption of Croatian citizens who paid the VAT through the purchase of goods and services. Why, on this basis, do I feel that this rebalancing is neither social nor just? In terms of rebalancing, we see that there are two measures put forward by the promoters, which is the first to increase the non-taxable share of income from 1600 to 1800 kuna. Let me remind you this is about these famous 30 kuna per month more Croatian citizens who have the most basic lowest income of approximately 0.6% of the average net salary. It means not a tenth of the inflation that's in action today. The second is that HEP subsidies will try to influence the rise of electricity in certain households. Of course, again to those who spend the least and certainly not those who have more children, who have bigger families than those who are single, who spend less energy. That's why I find this proposal unfair because I think that I'm going to set an example, and I'm going to set an example for us. After the change of this Income Tax Act, 250 kuna will jump, and only 30 kuna will be paid to a worker with 2,000 kuna. So that's not how I can support it. The second thing is that when we look at planned incomes from income tax he's only planned in 54, it means only 54 million less than it was at the beginning of the year. That means there's absolutely no measure. 54 million, that means we'll have income tax around the same level as it was at the beginning of the year. What kind of measure is that, then? Which is why this is even pointed out in this rebalancing proposal when we see that income tax has been increased and there is no need to highlight it as some government achievement in terms of helping Croatian citizens. Secondly, I believe that the basic problem and the problem of our country and the budget is large consumption, or lack of reform. There are no structural reforms to curb state spending. I also think primarily of the Ministry of Health where we see that from this rebalance a billion and 400 thousand kuna is given to the Ministry, which is approximately an increase from the beginning of the year, or what is planned from approximately 18.4 billion to 19.8 billion. So an increase of nearly 10 percent that says inflation could not have affected that increase, especially when taking into account that most of that money goes to what, those debts that we have already achieved in previous years. So the lack of reform affects that we cannot disburse the state budget and that we cannot allocate money to the citizens and that we cannot ultimately create a suitable, more suitable environment for the economy or for the development of our country. And finally, let me just say it. Someone said, it seems to me that the minister is on, that we from the SDP are saying some things about the budget that we haven't offered solutions. We did, we offered solutions. One of the solutions to amending the Law from income tax you accepted partly. Now we see from this data that you could accept not 1800 but 1900 kuna because income tax is very well charged. We have proposed changes and contributions to salaries, i.e. from the salary to increase Croatian citizens' salaries by 300 kuna. At this session of the Parliament, you have our concrete conclusions through the interpretations of the SDP Club and many other things that we are proposing constantly. So you can't say we don't suggest. What you accept or do not accept is on your conscience. And in the end when we talk about the prize we received for "duing buses" or for the business environment and reforms that took place in Croatia, I must mention that I congratulate on this award and every time we make advances... There's an area that needs to be welcomed, but I'd like to say a lot happier. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] that on that same table that we're on in 97 this year that some countries from our environment like Serbia she's about 80 and so on. [[Okay, thank you very much.]] It means when we mate, when we compete by these criteria. Even according to that data we're [[Intruder: Thank you very much, dear colleague.]] and weaker than the countries in our environment like Serbia. [[Thank you very much, please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12677	Correction of the incorrect allegations, MP Kreso Filipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12678	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm only going to correct one incorrect quote that Mr. Maras said because it's simply not true. He said the government's measure on electricity would actually be more directed towards the richer layers of this society, and significantly less on the poorer layers. It is true that in this society in the Republic of Croatia, however, much less generally, so I believe that electricity also consumes poor layers. So those who have less. So this measure will still deliver its results and this is not about the missed measure as it is said here.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12679	Two replicas. First Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12680	Your Honor, Vice President. Well, fellow Maras, you see, today is actually the cynicism of politics of different times. A time when you were in power today when you were in opposition. And it's interesting from that time distance to listen to you today, and I believe, you may not remember because you were 6 years younger or 7 when the coalition led by the SDP was in power so there were other times, you mentioned idyllic times in 2002. I'll remind you it was a time of frozen wages. In that time of frozen wages, I'll remind you that the electricity system's tariff was changing overnight so that that expensive tariff covered 16 hours and 8 hours cheaper than before, which was 20 hours cheaper, 4 hours more expensive. So there was a gas collection that caused the chain, and these two gatherings were chain-provoking new purchases: bread, milk,... , transport, housing costs and so on so that all these purchases additionally burdened the two-thirds of the population living on the edge of social endurance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's an interesting fact that this gathering was actually working somewhere back then, somewhere between 6% and 7% have cost us our lives in that period. It was about two and a half years of the actual rule of the then coalition headed by the SDP. I'll remind you of one thing somewhere near the end of the term when your finance minister gave orders to other ministers not to honor collective union contracts, so when I talk about this debt that's over two billion, which, unfortunately, I've asked the GSV question at the time incredibly that someone can do so much damage to the state without answering? And your finance minister never answered, and he said no collective agreements with workers are respected. It's like the distance of that time just to remind you, I don't have any more time or I'd remind you of a lot of things.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12681	Replication response, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12682	Thank you very much. Mr. Kunst, I remember a good time, no matter what six years I was younger. I wasn't talking about 2002, but I was talking about the idyllic situation in 2000 when we took responsibility for managing this country, so you should have heard that term a little bit better. And you also probably remember the situation in this government's previous term when you were a unionist and said some things that the government needs to change. ... I'm begging you! [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] And another thing, this other system, which is often called upon by HDZ representatives quite often. So it's been a while since 7, 8 years. But that's why you haven't changed those unfair tariffs. You haven't changed that. You had the opportunity to change that for five, six years. Five, six years you've been in power. You haven't changed, but you always point out as an argument that it was something unfair. So how long does it take you to correct the injustice, Mr. Kunst? What? Ten, 15 years? How much? Say how much? Never. Perhaps you can never correct the wrong. And maybe it's an injustice, someone mentioned it today that it's going with the power collection, and that HEP as a monopoly gives huge millions of dollars to sports clubs. For what? Some clubs. For what? What kind of run, who he's fighting, where he has to get a marketing advantage. On the other hand, electricity is accumulated that Croatian citizens pay for it out of their pocket. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12683	Second replica, Mr. Representative Boris Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12684	Dear Mr. Vice President, here I am going to replicate my colleague Marasa. We'll do it nice, we won't argue. He said exactly that inflation in European Union countries was 3.6% but a small supplement on your part would be perhaps more effective for all of us. Now, did you deliberately drop or not some other indicator I don't already know about? But you should have said that also in the last year in the countries of the European Union, food has been collected on average by 7.1%, which means twice as much as inflation. In particular, in this collection, the country has been different, but you could say that milk in the Union's member states has accumulated 15%, bread and cereals 10, meat 4.1, fish and fish products 46.5%, chocolate and sugar 25, fruits 39, vegetables 34, etc. In addition, I would just like to say one more thing to my colleague Maras, and that is that this government, however, wanted to mitigate the measures, the situation with us through various measures, as they do in the European Union, and to identify the causes. So a minimum wage law has already been passed, an untaxable part of the salary and pension has been increased, a model for the mitigation of the electric shock has been developed. Next year, a personal identification number will come to life, so we'll know who needs social assistance, etc. I think it's still measures that mean something. And at the end of the appeal, both left and right from my position if possible. I mean, I'd suggest let's do an analysis of what was since '45. Until '89. Then We shall see what you did at that time, and let it go. ... That's what I'm saying, dear God! [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] So why are you going back to some?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12685	Answer to the replica Mr. Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12686	Mr. Matkovic, here's the truth: I'm facing the future and this story of me, I don't want to compromise. For the sake of history, it's good to know some things of course. But constantly on your side of the assembly, these comparisons are going, and we're going back to 2001, 2002 and 2003. But good thing you asked me and when you said that I missed to say how much food prices were growing in the European Union. Fact 7.1%. And do you know how much she grew in Croatia? 10.2%. Is that more than 7.1? Just like inflation is three, four percent higher than in the European Union. So in Croatia, the situation is much worse than in the European Union, and it shows that the government and the effects of these measures are being taken to help Croatian citizens. So that's exactly why I'm saying it, Mr. Matkovic, because of what I think the government can do more and I don't think it's doing enough. And that was my reason for even mentioning it. So in Europe 7.1 in Croatia 10.2 with the need to consider that these 10.2 are in the last year, and they have been created since the new year. So, in the last half of the year, it's raised 10%, not in the last year. Realistically, this amount will be much higher when total collection is calculated at the level of the year.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12687	Thank you. One president's notice. Amendments until the end of the debate on the amendment and addition of the state budget. Mr. Representative Nevio Šetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12688	I would like to thank Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, co-workers, distinguished MPs and MPs. Indeed, this debate shows that when it comes to the state budget or the rebalancing, it is always the view of all of us, ourselves, and we can draw out such or such views, so I see that it is very difficult to agree on the debts created around the intentions that seemed to be made. But here, it's a debate that drags into certain political confrontations. I also recognise in this amendment and the addition of the state budget one growth in Croatia, the modernisation of its society and its appearance. And I will say something that I am particularly happy about, and here I would like to congratulate the Ministry of Finance who managed to create a system of statistics of public finances in Croatia to align with the European Union, with the countries of the European Union. It's maybe a little bit like this and it's easy to say. But in practice it is extremely important, but it is even more important that we restructure ourselves in such a way that we behave responsibly and that we look like countries where Croatia today, tomorrow, wants to be the process that we all achieve together. There is one fact that in this budget you can simply see and radiate from it and such a fact will also apply to further budgets. One fact that we cannot and this debate has shown a circumvention, and these are the circumstances in which this rebalancing and macroeconomic situation and also world opportunities that need not be ignored. They tell us a lot of things. I'll tell you why. The fact is that not only is the price of oil that has gone up dizzy in the last six months and slightly higher, but also the price of raw materials, especially food. It's something that's surprising, but it should be a message to all of us that we're different from state, public finances to personal ones, because that applies to each and every one of us, from using those potentials that we have inside of us that we can and grow out of ourselves. This is one fact that should also be told to the Croatian public because we cannot live under a glass bell, we cannot be excluded from both the way and the speed that we can adapt also speaks about us. I also want to say that this should also be said that the government of Doctor Ivo Sanader is leading one policy and sending a clear message to the Croatian public if the budget deficit decreases and, therefore, consumption in some ways stops and that is to say, it is being reconsidered as much as it can be invested in. This says that we need to pass on to ourselves such a fact because then this deficit that is now from 1.3%, and with the tendency of the lady and gentlemen to be 0, then it's a big message to the Croatian public and to all of us to question it from personal to commercial societies and all of them because we need to know that this is directly reflected in each of us. It seems to me that this is an important moment, and when it comes to such an important document as the budget and from which our destiny is reflected, it should be taken special care of. For the Croatian public, this has a long-term importance to me as much as the Croatian government has decided that the deficit is going to 0. I also want to say that these disastrous statements that we have heard today are not exactly such, that the macroeconomic environment says that unemployment in the last year is falling, so to the day of today, or earlier, and that on the other hand some economic activities are particularly growing. The fact is that it is construction, but it is not bad either, so we have one space where Croatia is taking rapid steps. Of course, space and we enter the period when tourism gives its effects, and on the other hand, economic activity growth in the first 3 months was 4.3%, which allows for the implementation of such a budget. It should also be said that this is still the largest budget so far that the Republic of Croatia has ever had, it is 118 and slightly more billions of kuna. So that growth is year by year recorded. Now, I had a need to say something about these macroeconomic movements, and I would now look more specifically at these 2.8 billion kunas that we are most discussing in the rebalancing process and that I am experiencing as direct support for perhaps the most needed ones. One part goes directly to the economy, the other are structural costs of assistance, and it seems to me that in some ways those parts of the government's work that can bring the most forward and on the other hand help those who need it the most. So I also welcome this fact that there will be structural support of around 600 million kunas, where there will be especially these circumstances about the increase in electricity prices and which will reflect and help with social sensitivity. It's already a lot of talk, so I'm not going to talk about it in particular, but here it should be said that this dimension needs to be seen and supported, i.e. the subsidisation of blue diesel by the end of this year that goes like where personal deductions from all of us are from 1,000 kuna now to a thousand 800, which is important for all citizens so the facts suggest that the government is showing this particular sensitivity. I also hold on to one reality that we have, which is a great need to finance opportunities in health care and especially about the functioning of our hospitals and what is related to medicines. This is a particular topic, but the government finds solutions to this problem and in this area, billions and 400 million kunas are invested in this rebalancing, which is for every praise. But on the other hand, we need to be aware that this reflects again on all of us and on a greater standard and improving the quality of health services. It should also be said that one significant part of this rebalancing is also intended for the field of science, education and the fact that, and that is already mentioned by other colleagues, and we also know that the Government of Dr. Ivo Sanader systematically increases the budget, let's say the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports is aware that the development of a knowledge society today is based on knowledge, because this is a great opportunity to increase the standard for everyone to systematically invest in this area, so that from this rebalancing 334 million kuna will be given to the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, which will enable them to intervene in all areas as far as I have seen, applies to basic education, to secondary education, so to compulsory education, but one part of high school education, scientific and research activities, etc. I would say here and that is the fact that the budget of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports annually grows by more than 10%, which in, this 5 years has been an increase of almost 80% or even something more. On the other hand, it should be said that, when it comes to education, one area that is extremely demanding as it relates to compulsory education, as well as to all other sectors. I am here thinking about this debate, and we know that we are not returning who has left the debt, and we know that this debt has been high, I would like to say that some structural changes are not only about money, such as the implementation of key competences in education according to the standards of the European Union, or the Council of Europe which have been working somewhere in the last 5 years, but also about smaller money can achieve visible changes, especially those relating to skills, values and the definition of knowledge and through these competences when I think the ministry has taken important steps for now and that it is working through what has been drawn out today through the development of a curricula for compulsory education and in this respect we modernise Croatian education.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12689	Bring the hearing to an end. Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12690	And in the end, I want to say for all these reasons that I support and I will vote for this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12691	Thank you. And now we have one series of replicas, so let's take it in a row. The first is Honorable Representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12692	Me and in this replica, and also in the debate I'll be really constructive, I'll try to help make this money that came into the budget more justly distributed. So 2 and a half billion is more earned in three months than was planned and thought it would be made three months ago when we were making the budget, because that's the 2 and a half billion. Secondly, you've been calling for the price of oil on the world market all the time. I want to remind you that 20% of the oil, and that's 7 million barrels being taken out in Croatia that it takes out all the costs when it's put in and rents and it's all living below $30 and that at this point, at that point, the seven million barrels make $100 or 700 million on the annual level of times four that's somewhere 3 billion. So we have two and a half here, we have three billion that we don't know who's spending them and who's making money on that oil, and even when we have... Only two and a half billion. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I expected it, and now I suggest it because my expectations are not included in the budget, to introduce free education for all high school students since the fall of 1.9. I think that in 2 and a half billion you can find money that all high school kids get free textbooks and all high school kids have free home-to-school transportation, and not that we're doing discrimination so that from the fall of 1st and 2nd grade, and 3rd and 4th, they're going to have to pay again because we're going to lose 20% of high school kids in this generation again. And secondly, I propose that there is now an enrolment in colleges, and I suggest that 200% increase student enrolment quotas for undergraduate studies or undergraduate studies on the ministry's burden, not remain in the quota that it is, and this generosity to graduate studies will practically remain only in those frameworks in which it has been funded before.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12693	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12694	So here I suggest maybe two and a half billion can be found in that hundred million.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12695	Thank you. Replicate response, distinguished representative Nevio Šetić. And I'm going to ask you again, stick to the time prescribed by the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12696	Here I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Well, let me remind you that when we... We ran that we had just skipped two years, just because it worked out well and could have been done. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And here when it comes to compulsory education for everyone in high school and financing these certain needs, perhaps this proposal of yours can be considered, but it seems to me that he is going through his time and the next four years would be possible to realize it. Maybe it'll get faster. And this about your oil calculation, I can only say one thesis, from Canada to Australia I've seen that usually the Social Democrats want to speed up and spend fast if the bags are full, and yet the peoples and the democrats are looking for better work, to share it well and to think about it. So I accept your line, you need to think carefully, maybe I can use that money even better.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12697	Thank you. Replica, the distinguished representative and vice president of the House, Željka Antunović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12698	Thank you very much. So I want to replicate the part where he talked about macroeconomic movements as factors, positive factors in stabilising the state of public finances, about that. I think it's totally wrong thesis. On the contrary, I even think that macroeconomic movements are the kind that point to a whole series of shortcomings in the state's behaviour, in government behavior when it comes to spending. I think that high inflation and an unsatisfactory rate of GDP growth is significantly lower than the one planned and promised by the government to achieve, that it is significantly caused by a slightly demagogue way of spending money that is easily due to inflation and large imports entering the state budget. As that money goes in without the merits that come from the growth of the economy into the state budget, then I think there's a much more rational way of spending that money. Here is a moment ago you agreed that the money invested in education could be used better, but you will also surely agree that a whole series of big investments behind which the state stands fall into towers as the people say in heaven or on earth. I'm going to mention just one thing, I'm going to mention that big project of the Peljega Bridge that's supposed to be investing and investing in, and the invisible works are. But the question is how much will this or similar projects that it has really reflect, a positive reflection on the growth of the gross social product, and I think at this point we are facing a situation where from the worse economic macroeconomic developments, the growth of a budget that we do not know how to direct or which the government does not know best.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12699	Thank you. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Nevio Šetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12700	Well, I would just like to answer something, because, in part, big investments can always be shared, but the fact that Croatia with large investments has certainly increased its standard and a chance for greater success, especially in road construction. That's what I'd say, and around some projects, we can always have different opinions. I wouldn't want to repeat some macroeconomic values here right now, but the fact is that even that effect that perhaps in six months, distinguished MPs, will be able to discuss when this tourist year is over, then we will see that these large objects that have been built have also benefited Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12701	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12702	I'd actually like to replicate my colleagues on that part of his exposure that a little bit becomes a parrot's repetition seems like the truth, but it's actually a delusion. The tendency to change the income tax, as you said, makes it easier for citizens to bear the burden of collecting especially fuel and food is a simple lie. It's a lie and that untrue knowledge and Mr. Minister Schuker. The Institute of Public Finance has announced, I warn you of the text of Ivica Urbana, 30 May, a convenient one simulation in which citizens, given the income available, were divided into 5 quintile groups, 20% of the poorest and 20% the richest. Here's the thing. If the cost of gasoline and branches increased by 10%, then with this reduction in the tax liability, those 20% of the poor would get 6 kuna, as they would increase by 610 kuna for gasoline and food, the state has a 1%, 6 kuna. That other group would give the state 55 kuna or 7%, and you know how rich this 5th group is. They would increase consumption by a thousand or more 055 kuna, because more, better they ate and more, but the state would pay them back 526 kuna or 50%. So let's forget this story and let's not talk nonsense in this House anymore. In no way does it compensate or reduce the cost of the poor. She was taken 610 kunas from her pocket and returned 6 kuna. That's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12703	Thank you. Replicate response, distinguished representative Nevio Šetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12704	Well, I couldn't agree with this calculation. I didn't mean it when I analyzed it, I was just showing general movements about it, but I don't think we can come up with a solution with this kind of calculations. I wanted to point out that the government has a series of measures that increase the standard, and in a general macro environment in global terms, we cannot influence some. The state will never be able to solve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12705	Thank you. Replica. Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12706	Comrade Nevio, you were talking about the social sensitivity of this rebalance. You see, I have a feeling from these discussions, as if there are two realities in Croatia. One reality begins when you enter through the door of the Parliament, the building of the Parliament, and the other when you come out of them. It looks like a country of dembelia, etc., living parliamentary representatives with their numbers, materials, etc., and outside living people with concrete fates. And they say that one part of our citizens is not small, it becomes intolerable and impossible to live with dignity, that the most rising prices of food products, that they are on a scale of 30% of all purchases, that food products, that the state earns the most on the purchase price, that people can hardly understand, that only on the fuel collection on an increase from VAT to make 32 million kuna per year, or 384 million, or per month, or 384 million kuna per year, that people who have to drive, who have to live, who have to pay for electricity, which some of them hang on containers to get their hands on plastic bottles, and before retirement were teachers. So from your profession and my profession, let's say that there's some other reality for them that we're talking about. And if we keep closing our eyes and we don't seem to see the right picture, we won't get far together. We just have to accept that it's not good. And it's not right to embellish things for something that nobody uses after all.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12707	Thank you. There's no response to the replica. And a replica, distinguished representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12708	Dear Mr. Šetić, your thesis that you are saying that by increasing the budget for the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports will be found, will mean additional funds to which many reform projects are to be implemented. Here's an example of the basic school system itself, which is perhaps the closest thing you've ever done to being secretary of state for primary school. When you look at the primary school class, you see that this class increases by 2 million kuna. And everyone says great. Two million kuna more for primary schooling. But then you go to look at the items, and then you see that the items for basic school teachers' salaries are increasing by 26.3 million kuna, and the total increases by 2nd, which means that we've taken 24 million kunas somewhere and that essentially reform funds are shrinking. And then you should watch where it shrinks. And then you find the items. Making national curricula, a million kunas less, capital investments in education 23 million kunas less, a project reform of primary education, a million and 500 thousand kunas less. And that's what the entire Ministry of Science and Education is to you. You have an increase of 334 million kuna, and when you add up 5 major items, pay free textbooks, transportation and almost 22 million kuna that goes to the administration in the ministry, you get to the amount of 380 million kuna. And then you ask where the 40th has fallen on these essential and essential items. And that's why your thesis is incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12709	Replicate response, distinguished representative Nevio Šetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12710	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I cannot agree with your Madam Representative's views for several reasons the more I proved in my debate that the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports grew the fastest of all ministries, i.e. that almost in 5 years, almost 100% grew. Secondly, it is evident that the government of Dr. Ivo Sanader is increasing funds every year, and we have increased this rebalancing, and then it can not be short on it, but it is too short, which items, which will be treated, which will all be done, so the ministry decides for its needs that are most effective then, but it is evident that the Government is giving more money for education and science.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12711	Thank you. And on behalf of the Government, distinguished Ivan Shuker, Minister of Finance of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12712	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Well, I wouldn't want to see this sharing of some lessons now, but those who worked with the budget and around the budget know that even during the half of the year, see if any projects will or won't be realized and not the budget rebalancing of more revenue achieved, but also the redistribution of certain funds within the ministries or other budget users for the simple reason that perhaps some capital projects or some other programmes can't be achieved in the extent to which they are planned for a million reasons. We can list them from documenting, to a number of other things. And as at the beginning of the year, users of the state budget send requests based on their work and programmes, etc. It is also spent during the year, so you will see that for this very reason, the new draft of the Budget Law introduces a different way and forms and spending of funds and that the possibility for certain projects is transferred over several years for reasons that certain projects are impossible to implement in one year. And it's not good, maybe because of the Croatian public and eventually we all do the same thing here, we're all in politics, someone in opposition, someone in power, when we're discussing something about ourselves, if somewhere outside of these spaces we'd probably talk about a lot of things, we'd probably agree that that's exactly the way it is and that someone in another position is very difficult to do things. So here's the story of the untaxable part of income tax, numbers and mathematics are... Our income tax is proportional to taxation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, it is very interesting that somehow at the same time as the government sent its proposal to increase the non-taxable part from 1600 to 1800, I think the SDP Club had some kind of proposal or one of the SDP representatives was talking about increasing the non-taxable part from 1600 to 1900. The difference is 100 kuna, we're not going to go into it analytically now. However, I would rather enter into the essence of the reasoning and of what the government has proposed and the essence of what the SDP Club has proposed, and the argument is very similar. But look today, in this assembly when we talk about that increase in the non-taxable part of the diametrically opposite story. But I'm saying, when we've proposed legal proposals, then you'll see that there are reasons why we're looking for an increase in the non-taxable income tax, then you'll see that it's very similar. Because as the Ministry of Finance has its tax experts, of course you have in your party people who do this work, and given the tax system that is in Croatia, there cannot be many different explanations. Thus, it just indicates how much we want to convince each other of something because of certain political points. However, what I said and the last time we made a budget we have two major structural problems, two major problems and as far as the budget is concerned, and as far as the economy is concerned, it is health and shipbuilding. We will be fighting again today and when we solve these problems, we will be much easier to talk about both education and the social programme. But what surprises me, the school program before, I apologize for going back to 2003 was somewhere around 7 billion and 800, today it's 12 billion. Inflation is, let's ignore these last few months 6%, on average it was about two and four years about two and eight percent. The education budget for knowledge has increased almost, not recently, but has increased 50%. And now look, once we were in opposition, you were in power. And you have assured us with so much air that with those 7 billion and 800 wonders can be convinced. Just like today, you're making us believe that there's nothing that can be done with 12 billion. Look, those costs that are in school, the truth, we've allowed employees, both primary and secondary schools and universities to grow 6% each year, which was not the case in the coalition government, it requires one part of the cost. However, there are some costs that are such as, which existed at that time, exist at this time, and inflation has not raised them so much. And that's math. Because we can't say that 7 billion and 800 is more than 12 billion. We can also talk about the social program. But we can't get away from the fact, that's where we started fighting over some old debts again. In the end, we did not pay those who are sitting here, we are like the mass of taxpayers, paid by the taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia. But it is true that in agreement with the IMF, it is a document, the international document clearly states that negotiations with trade unions will be negotiated 10%, on average, that Christmas cards will not be paid, that no regress will be paid and no gifts for children will be paid. It is in a document signed by the Croatian state with the international monetary fund. And that it will negotiate with the unions. What I'm saying now, I stand behind it, and I can document to the Croatian public, this document is also in the Ministry of Finance, and this document is also in Washington International Monetary Fund. With that basis, there were billions of damages that had to be thrown out of the budget, okay, they paid off, and I wasn't talking about it either when the budget was passed, I wasn't talking about it today, and I didn't mean to talk about it at all anymore, it's a finished story that's... But today we're reopening the story and we're convincing ourselves that something that wasn't, and we have so many problems that are common problems. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Problems that do not know the political party, problems that do not know the political options and problems that are there. You can take a look at my budget debate in 2001 when a colleague of the Church suggested that a billion and 700 million bonds be issued, that health debts be settled. I was open then here said God forbid that after four years of those billions and 700 increases. Why? So because for us economists who don't understand ourselves too much in health care it's clear that if you don't take some reforms, if the cost just grows, that it's going to be such that it can't be reduced, so it can only be reduced from the inside. And unfortunately, the situation is like this, it was at the end of 2003, and today we have the same problems. Did we always spend the last four years discussing budget rebalances for the most part of the funds to cover the edges of the health care? And during the coalition government and during our government over the past four mandates, the same story is in the first budget rebalancing this year. So it's one of our common problems that you haven't been able to solve either, and you can see that we have problems with it, too. So that's the problem that I think we can only solve with one big political consensus. And we can today convince each other from both right and left as much as we want, but in the depths of our souls and each other we know what to do to make that healthcare finally stand on its feet. The same story is with shipbuilding. Mr. Linic knows well when it was the first recovery of how much has been invested in the rehabilitation of shipbuilding. We can draw a line ever since, see what the situation is today, the same story. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I said after the SDP debate that I was pleased to have this debate. Why? Because there's basically no fundamental objection to this. Rather, they have views and attitudes but views and attitudes that are normal in one political democracy. However, it is obvious that we are accusing ourselves of some things that we simply cannot influence. Because Croatia is an open economy country, we are one of the global movements that is what it is, and even where we have managed to single out one part of the common money, these are the Croatian economy and Croatian citizens' money, we have proposed one structural measure, and instead of fighting to target this rest of the money by the end of the year to something even more quality, we assure each other that this is not good. Well, if it's not good with electricity, what was it supposed to do with electricity? By what standard? Whether by the criteria of granting social assistance to someone who has a company, has several million profits but the company is not on it but is given to managing a law firm which was a very modern trend in certain times of our closer history and this can normally be like some kind of social case. But when this personal identification number works, then a lot of these things will, however, give the Croatian public the knowledge of who and what is in this country and who really deserves help and be convinced by all the analyses that we have done and that the international financial institutions have done, we will be in a position that with the same mass of resources we can certainly be effective. Here's my apology as I apologized at first. I don't intend to teach anyone a lesson or a lecture, but I do speak from a position a little bit and different when you have to think about both the left and the right side of the budget and then when you draw the line if the deficit goes up by 0.1% which is not a tragedy but you send an extremely negative message. And I say here's my colleague Linic had four years of chance to negotiate with these institutions and he knows exactly how tight they are and how they squeeze, so we're all in the same place after all. I, we don't doubt that it's in the best interests of all of us in this country, but I say two acute problems can only be solved together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12713	Thank you. And now we have one series of corrections. Well, she is the first to be respected representative and vice president of the House of Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12714	I want to correct two incorrect allegations. The first is that SDP proposals are more similar when it comes to taxation of income or non-taxable income and the one proposed by the Government and will be realised by the government and the discussions are diametrically contrary. No, it's about seemingly the same proposal but ours was combined with changes in y, which relate to pay-outs and contributions, and that's two different things. If you had accepted ours, it would have had an effect on the salary increase. And the second, Minister, the second correction is that we're not trying to convince you that 12 billion cannot, that with 12 billion dollars in education, there's nothing you can do. On the contrary, we try to point out that you spend this money without ultimately doing anything useful with them. That's a small difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12715	Thank you. Thank you. ... Dear Representative Davorko Vidovic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12716	I am replicating or correcting the allegations of Minister Shuker that from the political initiatives we have offered amendments to the Income Tax Act. It would imply that it would be me, if I had something against this increase in the untaxable part that you brought. No, I don't. It's just that the truth is not being hidden and that it's not being said that this law or this reduction of tax burden is giving rise to effects that are not being obtained. A reduction in the tax base was to be combined with a whole series of social policy measures because it was shown, all research has proved in Croatia to be poor targets, it is being mismuted when it comes to the poorest groups of people. So that's an incorrect quote. It is not a matter of political intentions, but of the need to combine that law with other measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12717	Thank you. Dear Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12718	Thank you. I'm correcting two incorrect allegations. Inaccurately, Mr. Minister claimed that here we are as some kind of ominous, although he did not say mean, but the opposition claims that nothing can be done with 12 billion. That's not what we're saying. But we argue that such money should be used in some kind of developmental projects, not in consumption, and the government should stop acting like the Banski Courts are lying on oil wells. That's one thing. Secondly, it is not true that we have to wait even though we have all been and voted the Tax Number Act to finally see what our social welfare really is, we have objections from and even from the World Bank that we are not aiming enough at exactly the most needed groups. What we could do right away is also about, according to the I.D., identifying who these are people who need our help most? But the government obviously also wants to deal with those people who have a fictitiously reported residence here, who only serve as a voting machine, and then they don't want to deal with someone who manipulates such a residence and then draws all those. donations and grants they have no right to. [[Intruder: Bring the end.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12719	Thank you. And the esteemed representative of the Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12720	Mr. Minister, I've never heard of the Prime Minister or the idea that 7 billion 800 can do anything, and 12 billion nothing in education. But what we're trying to convince you is that the Ministry is being led very badly, that money is being spent irrationally. One year she insists on one, two years on another. That the head and that none of the three key projects and that's your national prom, that's your bologna process, that's what technology projects did to you, and that's why we're trying to channel the money into other things. However, the budget is such that...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12721	What are you correcting, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12722	I'm correcting that with 12, we're saying that with 12 billion nothing, there's nothing we can do. We claim something else. And no, so no one has ever said that 7 billion 800 could do anything, and with 12 billion, there's nothing that can be done. Those were Mr. Secretary's words. So we claim something else entirely.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12723	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Slavko Linić. [[Intruder: Please.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12724	Thank you, Vice President. I'm correcting a colleague of Shucker's statement that we've signed an obligation to freeze wages. An obligation to freeze salaries of users of the state budget has been signed. This is a big difference because state budget users are living off the money paid by taxpayers. So it was a savings and it was all done to raise workers' salaries. To raise the growth rate of the economy. And thanks to this very measure, we have average growth annually of almost 7% of real wages in the economy and we have growth in the economy. And the truth is the victims of all this were users of the State budget. They were users. So it's not the Minister's correction that frozen the salary, it's just the beneficiary of the State Budget. And that's a big difference because the wages are up 7%.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12725	Thank you. Tim...... Ministers, you can't. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Let's go, we're almost done with the morning session. We'll continue at 15.00 hours. The first is the honourable representative Rajko Ostojić, and then behind him, the distinguished representative Nenad Stazic, and then 19 more. I wish you good luck! ... and a session. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the first order of business, as I have already said, is Honorable Representative Rajko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12727	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, gentlemen of the Ministers and Mr. Secretary of State, let me particularly welcome our Minister of Health, not only for medical solidarity, because indeed the Minister of Health has been here all morning since half eight of the first committee so far it is clear why he is present. About 2.5 billion and 400 go to health care, and definitely when you look at it cleanly, the health care definitely took most of the cake in the rebalancing process. If we're watching... If we watch what they've done... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this part of the preparation then it really turned out already then the health care was the winner, the health care got a lot, too much etc.. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Personally, I don't like going back to the past for a number of reasons, and I think two are key. The first time we can't change the past, talk or not talk, it's over, it's past this morning. Secondly, these conditions and our sociocultural environment of the past are most often especially if we are passionate and passionately painfully divided and painfully bickering and there is no need. Especially no need in June this year. So I'm not going back in the long run, I'm going back in just the last five, six months. You'll let me know that it's not some distant past. So, January by June four documents, all four of you have received, all MPs of the 6th convocation, this is the implementation of the 2007 budget of the 50-page booklet. Budget for 2008 February/March this year, Proposal for an annual accounts of the state budget for 2007 May, 2008 and today June 2008. Proposal to amend and supplement the state budget. Four documents this year. So, not so far past. Today we all agreed that the facts, figures, statistics are not politically naked, that the figures are politically neutral, that statistics are essentially inexorable. And so, I'm just going to say two premises. Based on these four documents. The February and March premise this year that the HZZO in the state budget was down 4.7%, I immediately commend Minister Shuker that the state budget has grown by exactly such a percentage of 4.7%, the first prime minister in these four documents. The second premise is that the state budget is really big, 118 billion, if we look at today's GDP, which is 278, or 7, it seems almost 45 or 46%, so an extremely large budget with relatively modest GDP. And the conclusion is not good if we respect this preparation... Doctor that health care is a winner. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, my conclusion is that this is essentially a correction of injustice, a corrected injustice because only health in the budget in March and February of this year went 4.7%, it was minus. And O.K., now we've got, we've got 1.4 billion and that's why it's my conclusion, this is correcting the injustice despite efforts that are legitimate,... Doctor, doctor, not doctor, but... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Doctor of Health is not a winner. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm very sorry that I can't share the satisfaction of my colleague Flege and my colleagues... who said he was very pleased that the science budget increased from 7.8 to 12 billion but was also not satisfied with how this budget was spent. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I can't share that satisfaction because last year's health budget with the police department was a loser. And so now he's not a winner and not Minister Schuker has given us charity, or the Ministry of Finance, I apologize for going to a personal level, the Ministry of Finance, but it's essentially a correction of injustice. The Ministry of Health or the Ministry of Health might be a better name and social care consists of two parts, so first of all, just something that we rarely neglect and that's social care and then I pray nicely on this first document from January, February, on page 38 under the Chapter of the Socially Sensible Population Group you have a chapter called the People with Special Needs. There are no such needs, there are no such persons, or all of us in the Parliament, all 4.5 million citizens of Croatia, all 7 billion inhabitants around the world are persons with special needs. Someone manages to make them real, someone doesn't. There are no people with special needs, there are people with disabilities, there are unfortunately a lot of them in Croatia and children with developmental difficulties. So please, Mrs. Lukacic, who is now not going to be in the written documents and this book is otherwise great, in the written documents we don't have this chapter and it turns out that all 4.5 million citizens of Croatia are basically a socially sensitive group of people, if we respect what it says. So, people with disabilities and on that threshold, I would like to commend yesterday's decision to discuss and develop a personal assistance programme for another 300 and some of our citizens, our special disabled people. But also saddened that the proposal of the Assembly Committee on Human Rights and fellow Members of Jurjević did not pass that the persons, the undersighted persons and those of them were 4.5 thousand in Croatia that we couldn't give them, that we couldn't make up for all that nature had denied them in one way or another, conditionalally. And the amount is really incredibly small. Believe it or not this moment in Croatia only 55 of our citizens, the undersighted persons have their dog guides. I am pleased that through the Association of Citizens, therefore, not in front of the party, but in the association of citizens who managed to raise funds for as many as 10 guide dogs last year and the training of guide dogs is exactly 50,000 kunas a labor that lasts for two years, and it is a pity that such a tall home has not found understanding or government for the proposal of the Assembly Committee on Human Rights. I ask to think about it and today he made a very nice point and asked his colleague Jurjevic to do it. So it's a social, very good person with disabilities, very good personal assistants, this isn't good. Especially if we look at these grammatical errors that are inadmissible in the 21st century. Health care. We are correcting the injustice, congratulating my colleague Milinovic, he was then Vice-President of the Parliament, and after three months he managed to set up a hospital system, I told him today on the board he expects it to produce results for this year as well. I think it's about... It's going well. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But yet what he reported to us today I will now quote, basically again we are in debt almost to the throat. In fact, and when we settle this, the financial injection, the hospitals will remain on the trail this January of nearly a billion and 700 kuna, the HZZ's debt has a billion and 400 million kuna, so the total will be between 3 billion and 103 billion and 200 billion. And all those who talk about recovery, it's not recovery, sanatum Latin means healing, this is healing, the patient is tired, the system is tired, these are infusions, it's not recovery, the recovery is healing, this is one short-term... healing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Waiting lists, a painful topic, we talked a lot today about the Assembly Committee, but it's best to read your newspaper, research newspapers, tried a few days ago in Split, tried to order, saw how many waiting lists they were. Director of the KBC Split... counterpart Marasovic immediately detected it and said he would hire new doctors. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I support my colleague Mrsic today as he said nicely about science and education to address medicine in particular. Today we have never had fewer doctors, the curicula has not changed, and human resources are what nurses and doctors continue to enter for ten years the same number, and we believe or not this hour 38 doctors at the employment fund. All 38. Part of it went to the pharmaceutical industry part of it. And finally I appeal, let us turn to standardization of equipment, turn to clinical and diagnostic guidelines, turn to health information, and that Minister Shuker knows very well that it is best to inform health care, it will be easier for him, we will be more efficient, banks, each bank invests in information 6-8% annually and Croatian healthcare 0.3%. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12728	I thank you, too. Let's move on. And the esteemed representative of Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12729	Every budget is a mirror of the government, so any debate on the budget is actually a debate on the quality of a government. Whether she succeeded in why she was chosen and was chosen to improve the lives of the citizens who chose her. So whether it works or it doesn't work. This morning, counterpart Matkovic from the HDZ Club said an interesting thesis. He said by defending the government that the government is not incompetent because it was elected by citizens, and by choosing it by citizens it cannot be incompetent. The thesis is of course illogical and should actually be used in a high school logic textbook as an example of the wrong logical conclusion. Things are not meant to be caused by a causal relationship and the chosen Government can be incompetent, may even be harmful to its citizens. For counterpart Matkovic to be right then, no democratic country could be incompetent because all democratically elected, and as we know we have capable and incompetent governments or more capable and incompetent. So the government can be elected because, for example, it has deceived citizens by making false promises. She made a promise, and then she doesn't do it. She actually cheated on the citizens. I think we have an example here in Croatia, a classic example of just such a government. The government has promised a better life for the citizens, and life is no better. He's getting harder. What is Croatia's main problem? Croatia has many problems, but one is the most important. It's a decline in citizens' standards. The government admits that the standard of citizens falls. So that's undeniable. I guess that's not what we're gonna discuss right now. What does that mean? It means that people are living harder and harder, that they have less and more, that they are increasingly in charge, that they are becoming more insecure in the future. In Croatia, prices are wild, it collects everything. But the most expensive thing that humans cannot give up is food and energy. When it comes to food, then we must conclude that one half of the citizen's income is now falling to food for a mere survival. One half of their profits people have to spend to have something to eat. It's a catastrophic picture. Governments have this kind of price divergence because the more prices they cost, the more income they make from VAT. Logic here is clear. There's a causal link. The government of justice is always, and it's not our fault, it's such an environment, it's growing in the world of oil prices, and that's how it affects citizens' standards. But you see, it has also collected edible oil, and edible oil is not produced from crude oil. On the day of the election, edible oil cost nine kunas in Croatia on the day of the parliamentary elections. Now his price is between 12 and 16 kuna. Where's the agricultural policy? What's the Minister of Agriculture doing? We have over a million acres of raw land. Where are these measures that would put this land into operation, so that the olives can be sown so that there doesn't have to be a price of raw oil 16 kuna. That's the government's job. This is what the government must do, not justify itself with high oil prices. Only since the beginning of this year has the consumer basket increased by 200 kuna, wages have fallen by 100 kuna. How will the citizens pay for all this? What are they going to eat if these trends continue? Well, we don't see from this budget that they'll be interrupted. Many will suffer hunger in Croatia. Does the government have an answer? If he had one, would we have seen him in this budget? There isn't. How is it that citizens today survive under these circumstances? Well, they're doing it because they're in debt. They live off the minuses in bank accounts and pay high interest on that. If it wasn't for that, they wouldn't be able to make ends meet. Energy, another important item. He collects gas every week. The government is growing the world's price of oil. But it doesn't explain the fact that INA oil draws from wells in Croatia. It's the wealth of this country's mine. It is the property of the country's citizens, and then the same oil it draws from Croatia from the wells sells to citizens as if Kuwait. Concessions have not changed since Yugoslavia. INA, that barrel costs $16 and sells it to 100. And now to the citizens of this country, the INA sells their mining wealth as if it imported it. Of course, when it's sold to citizens, VAT is charged and it goes to Minister Shuker. To increase concession prices, the price of oil or gasoline in Croatia could be reduced. Don't do that. Not because Minister Shuker wouldn't know it or someone in the government. It's not in their interest, because they don't care how much the citizens pay for it. They're concerned about their budget being charged via VAT. Well, they're interested in the price of barrels of oil being 200, 300 dollars. What do they care how people pay for it? Whoever has it will pay and the budget will be charged. Power collected 24%. It is said the government has taken some social measures, so those who don't spend more than 2,000 kilowatts a year won't pay you, will not feel this collection. They were counting cottages and garages, and there they were counting. But the poorest don't have cottages. They don't have garages or expensive cars. They live in their apartments, they have to shine inside, they have to cook, they have to warm up. They will spend more than two and more than 3,000 kilowatts a year. They will not escape the gathering. You know who won't feel this power collection? They won't feel the people around Vojnic in Dalmatia, in parts like this because they don't even have electricity. There's no electricity there because HEP doesn't pay to get them electricity, and maybe there's no money because he's funding football clubs, so here's what he cares about citizens. That's what this government tolerates, and she has to explain it to the citizens of Vojnić, they can't watch this, they don't have electricity or television to watch it. They will feel Dalmatia heating up on electricity because there is no gas because it is not working on the gasification of Dalmatia. How are they going to spend less than 2,000 kilowatts a year? The fall in standard is, therefore, evident, that's what the figures show. That's the result of this government's work. She didn't offer a better, easier life than expensive and harder. And the longer this set becomes in power, the harder the lives of the citizens of this country will be. Debt grows uniformly. Says the government, but the debt of the state, it should be the government's concern, and this, this isn't the government's fault that it's even a debt, that citizens are in debt. Well, I know, but the government's not one company to say, so look, we're not in charge of the company, and what's this for the other, which is why we don't care. And the debt of the citizens must be the concern of this government. So why are these citizens in debt? From the obituary, they're obsessant so they're in debt, they have nothing to eat, they're in debt, they live on debt, and that's supposed to be the concern of this government, but it's not because she says, so what we care about is the general debt. Who's the most hit? The poorest are the poorest who live on welfare, have minimum salaries, pensioners. There are only 900 thousand or 80% of them a day with only 44 kunas.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12730	Bring the hearing to an end.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12731	This government doesn't care about them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12732	Thank you. On behalf of the motionary of the Government, Minister of Health. Excuse me. Two corrections, I have to say I wasn't warned. First of all, the distinguished representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12733	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Stazic again manipulates the figures, and the incorrect allegation that, among other allegations that are incorrect, reads as follows: "During this government, there has been a fall in the standard of citizens." And then on it brings up other untruths. That's why this government isn't competent, etc. Comrade Stazic, the standard of citizens is measured by exact figures. The exact figures here are called gross domestic product per capita. That's exact, don't you think? Well, let me tell you right now what you said wrong. Gross domestic product per capita in 2004 was 48 thousand and 2008. 28 thousand 202 kuna. Therefore, an increase of twenty-thirty, out of fifty percent in 4 years of gross domestic product tells your claim that the standard is growing and that this government is responsible.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12734	Thank you. And distinguished representative Krešimir Gulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12735	Dear Vice President, I must correct Mr. Stazic's incorrect allegations, there were many of them. He says this government has deceived the citizens. Well, I don't think this government has fooled the citizens. Citizens have confirmed that they have not been deceived in the previous parliamentary elections. We got another mandate, and they didn't forgive you after four years because you cheated on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12736	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Honorable representative Davor Huška. The Honorable Minister of Health on behalf of the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12737	Dear Vice President, here is the fact that in several discussions today, health and social care are mentioned, so here is the opportunity for me to say a few words, and I don't consider myself to be any winner of this budget rebalancing because if you look at the percentage of the tourism ministry has received 22% increase in its budget, regional development of 9. 10%, my ministry about 6%, but in the figures of a billion and 400 million kuna, it really looks like we got and we are in that figure the largest part of the budget rebalancing cake. I am pleased as Minister of Health and Social Care to mature time in this Chamber and thinking, and I would say in Croatia that health care is necessary treatment, that I think that we are together on both parent committees and on many discussions or through public media, or have personally come to the diagnosis of the health system, it is very important for the treatment that you respected representative Ostojić mentioned in his debate. A billion and 400 million kunas may be a harsh word, but a waste of money unless it approaches a serious, thorough reform of the health system, and so I say that I am pleased that all those who have mentioned health care and welfare today have not left out the word of reform. Well, Mrs. Zgrebec also said in the morning debate that these billions and 400 million kuna rebalances at the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare are going to cover debts, which is not true. I believe that both health care and social care are a good foundation and economic development of the Republic of Croatia, about 500 million kuna will go really to cover the debt in the domain of health care and social care, and 500 million kuna is going to new conditions of operations of the hospital system, which you have well perceived in your debate. What does the new operating conditions of the hospital system mean? By 31.3. the hospital system created at monthly level, generated new obligations of 100 million kuna. Transferred, which means when I mentioned the economy. We have a part of the economy that's leaning, so let me say, under quotes on the health market or on the hospital market. So today from 31.3. or 1.4. if this economic sector which is based on a hospital system sells something 100, it will not charge 100, but will charge 110. Through this way of business, through these new business conditions, we have given clear criteria to directors, 65 directors who will make an account, not about anything else but how they ran their management, or how they ran their health care facility. I am convinced that most of them will show that they know how to run a health system because they have got clear criteria and according to these clear criteria of course can be determined and often I say that we will raise health care out of the narrowest interests, that we will clearly say together, in this Assembly all together say this director is good, this director is not good and there is no deviation. The one that hasn't been good since 31.7, I have a legal option, if he isn't relieved by the board of directors, I have the legal possibility to take over a director who's been showing his business for the past four months that he hasn't worked well, that he's not a good one, I'm going to insist on his shift. I agree with you, and we're not going back to history. And if you noticed that in four months, I'm not going to say anything but I hardly mentioned what anyone did in the medical system and who was to blame for this condition. I dare say that it has matured the time in Croatia that I, as Minister of Health and Social Care, belong to the strongest political party in Croatia, HDZ, to say clearly here and here the Government of the SDP, who was headed by the SDP, has done something good for the health system. And all governments so far have done something good for the health system, but they've had their own mistakes. And I do, and that's why I say we try, I am convinced and I share your opinion that it is the priority of the Croatian state to raise it out of the narrowest interests because it is the only way of success. A respected representative seems to me to have spoken the same way about the health system, about the need for reforming the health system and about changing the price policy or changing the policy of medicines. You today have some studies of between 400 and 500 euros per capita of medicines being thrown away. That's what I have in my house and there's no one in my house who doesn't have something like that in his drawer, where one box of 20 pills was taken out and one of these other 10 goes through a period of time and throws itself away. But you know what warns? There are in Croatia all these medicines that you get in the pharmacy, but you have to pay for it in full. You don't throw away drugs like that. These are used maximum, and these medicines and we are the only country in the European Union, in fact I hold that we are already in the European Union, but no country in the European Union has a completely free list of medicines such as Croatia or the list A, which is completely free of charge and a B list to be charged. And that is why I believe that these billions and 400 million kunas, unless we agree with a common consensus on the true reform of the health system, are indeed the means that are the means of citizens, the means of people who pay taxes, the funds thrown away. And I am convinced, dear friends, that these funds have not been dropped and that they will serve us to stabilise the health system, and then to make a real reform. And in the end, I can't take the impression and I can't keep quiet when someone's talking about the collapse of the health system. We can read together the document of the Croatian Institute of Public Health and the Ministry of Health and Social Care. I didn't know who was doing that study when I opened it. Then I looked at the people who were most called to evaluate the hospital system are patients, not people who have the perception of the health system they already have and who don't use the health system. The most measurable is the one who uses that health care system. You know what they say? The patients say, then I said it wasn't some party doing that study because I didn't believe it. 63% of patients who use hospital health care, 63% of them evaluate that health care with an evaluation, believe it or not, excellent (5). 23 with 4.8 with 3, only 1% is dissatisfied with health care in the Republic of Croatia. The World Health Organization places us in the leading countries of transition, but what burdens us is actually good health care, well-organised health care, but with the growing deficit of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. I think the reform of the health system ahead must go after the source of new funding, for rationalization that does not mean the abolition of rights. The reform of the sea, as said in the Constitution, that the Republic of Croatia is a social state, health system reform must also mean a better availability of health care for those who need it. And in this sense, I welcome all those who spoke about the budget rebalancing, who mentioned health care, who in their discussions sensitized the Croatian public to the need for reform of the health system. And as for the waiting list, in Ireland about 3,000 euros stand out per capita for the health system, we are somewhere around 600 euros. Their waiting lists are 9 months, our waiting lists are 8 months. Let us take neighbouring Slovenia, which has as many waiting lists as in Croatia. They are not waiting lists of Croatia's specifics, but are one of the segments in the health system that could partly, and never completely resolve the forthcoming reform of the health system. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12738	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Rajko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12739	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. To correct the first incorrect allegations that only Croatia... Excuse me, can you hear me? Excuse me, first of all, it is incorrect that only Croatia has a list of A and B medicines. It is called only differently, especially the areas of Central Southeast Europe where Croatia belongs, as you said, for centuries. From Germany, Austria, etc. It's just a different name. You are right, Croatia seems to be exporting 600 euros per capita, unlike Slovenia and the Czech Republic, but it is an incorrect claim that 400 euros per head is being thrown. It's an arbitrary study that's completely scientifically unfounded, and I would recommend that you check and no longer deal with that number. Third, she is a great Croatian Institute of Public Health. Only two polls were done in health care. Professor Hebrang was Minister of Health, Professor... It's her deputy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These last polls, which are now listed, we gave up because they were inexplicable, unfounded, unprofessional. The waiting lists are unfortunately large everywhere, but the task of the administration of Mr. Minister is to detect when the waiting list is narrow and to improve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12740	Thank you. And finally here comes the turn, the distinguished representative of Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12741	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. ... I will focus on the funds targeted at regional development, because as the head of the city, and I am particularly interested in this section of the budget through the war of the Western Slavonia area from which I come. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But first of all, I would like to express my satisfaction with the proposed rebalancing, because in these turbulent economic and social times not only in Croatia, but in Europe and the whole world, the Croatian Government and the Ministry of Finance succeed in making available and focusing on increased budget revenues a significant part of the funds to mitigate price growth. This is now helping households and citizens with the most sensitive social categories, which has just been given not long ago recommendations from the world's leading economists. A significant part is directed to industrial production, the economy and the most critical branches of the textile and leather industry, and to the rehabilitation of further encouraging development of entrepreneurship, the increase of strategic stockpiles and the rehabilitation of healthcare that we have just heard about and the health minister. That is exactly the kind of reflection on the distribution of budgets inflows to optimism here, at least on this side of the assembly and the citizens of Croatia that this global crisis and the threatening recession in the world and in Europe will cross Croatia as painlessly as possible. With all the problems mentioned above, this rebalancing has not been forgotten by war forgotten areas, islands, less developed areas of the Republic of Croatia, areas of special state care. Specific regional development programmes remain active, and the funds have doubled in the Republic of Croatia's budget over the past 4 years. So today, the state stands out 2 billion kunas for the Regional Development, Reconstruction and Development Fund programmes of the Water Supply System, the development of the island, the area of special state care and mountain-mounted areas, as well as other regional development programmes. It is important to mention that investments in the development of Croatian islands are almost twice as high in 2008 compared to 2004, with only a 30% increase compared to 2007. There is more than double growth compared to 2004, also in the area of special state care and mountainous areas. The main goal is, of course, the rapid development of these areas, the increase in the quality of life of the population, in order to stimulate demographic recovery in these areas, and their economy is equated with the level of other parts of Croatia. The rebalancing further invests in balanced development, as well as the projected investment of €200 million in regional development programmes, the return of exiles, refugees, displaced persons, development and the reconstruction and construction of water supply systems, water and sea protection from pollution and others. But it is not only this investment in regional development, although it is called the area of special state care, by the war of the affected areas of the island, but there are particularly significant investments in the war of the affected areas except for these direct ones, for example in health care, which was talked about, hospitals, Vukovar, Gospić, Pakrac, and other war-torn areas. The water supply, which increases by 45 million kuna with its rebalancing, applies mostly to the less developed areas of the Republic of Croatia in primary, secondary education, and enjoys the announcement of investments that will regulate the Law on the areas of special state care from the state budget into kindergartens in areas of special state care in cooperation with local self-government units. There are, of course, a whole series of other projects, through the Ministry of Regional Development and through other resolution ministries that are trying and moving towards the most vulnerable parts of Croatia. Unfortunately, for areas of special state concern, mountain-mounted areas and islands, much more resources are needed than these planned but cheerful trends in the year-to-year increase in funds, as well as the reflection of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that any increase in budget revenues is going towards less developed regions and regions of the Republic of Croatia. This should lead to the objectives outlined in the Regional Development Strategy within the shortest period, which is the even development of the entire Republic of Croatia, the same conditions for the life of all inhabitants of Beautiful Ours. Just for the sake of all this, I'm going to support this budget rebalance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12742	Thank you. We're moving on. We have one replica, the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12743	I would briefly replicate a colleague who spoke about the need for even development, and I would mention that when I adopted the 2008 budget, they were late hours, but I remember what I said, I mentioned that many items concerning the very Croatian islands were equal or something even a percentage and less than last 2007. So what's going on in this rebalancing process is actually being accepted by the major amendments that I've submitted, because I've simply suggested that some of the funds are insufficient because of the purchase, it's about, for example, subsidies and so on, so I can say, there's concern here, some projects are good, some projects are less good, but still not enough to be satisfied. So we can be more content with some other parts of the country with islands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12744	Thank you. Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12745	Thank you. Mr. Vice President. First, I would like to thank my colleagues for the replica, and I am pleased to finally share our opinion, here is the left and right side giving the necessary even development of Croatia, which is what the prime minister is saying and in this mandate, and is seeking to do so through increased budget funds. It is evidence that these are the funds that are planned, that regional development items, that I do not list them again for both islands and mountainous areas, and for areas of special state concern. We remember in the election campaign not so long ago that some parties represented us here today in the Parliament with a number of MPs were afraid to abolish the Law on Areas of Special State Care, the Law on Mountains. Here is the Croatian Democratic Community and in this way also proves by the material that we have in preparation for the Law on PPDS areas of special state care, that it continues to take care of that part of the Republic of Croatia, islands, mountain-mounted areas and certainly with the growth of income expected next year, 3 and a half of our mandate, that significant funds will be directed right into that area of the Republic of Croatia, that we will come close to the more uniform development of all parts of Croatia and Zagreb, and the Primorje, and Dalmatia, Slavonia and parts of Zagreb, here is what the colleague says that do not live very well.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12746	We continue with the distinguished representative, Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12747	Honorable Vice President and Honored Ministers. I've been wondering for a long time what it means to know now that the axe is falling into your honey, see how pleased Minister Schuker is sitting here today, starving his mustache, because here in three months he's managed to earn the state budget 2.5 billion more. We brought in a state budget less than three months ago, then we talked about real planning, we talked about real income, we talked about everything and even the real estate market, mortgage loans in America, and we really looked at it, and then it was a miracle that we only made 2.5 billion kuna in three months. ... Well, I don't know, then I have the wrong budget. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yeah, but good. Then it doesn't increase by 2.5 billion now, I thought it's now increasing by 2.5 billion, but therefore, neither the guilty nor the debtor here we have the happiness, we are, we're lucky that the state budget is really increasing by 2.5 billion kuna by this rebalance, it's increased by much more than the original budget, is it, and that increases billions and 300 million kuna on the VAT item and somewhere 180 million kuna on the customs item. Let's add some excise duties, but let's say a billion and a half kuna is, therefore, a direct increase with a base of consumption and an increase in prices and an increase in imports. And O.K., that now, I'm not going to go into this other side that has consequences, but when we already have that money then it's good to ask yourself how to invest it in order to ensure in the future a different structure of income, therefore, not to charge customs and not to charge VAT, primarily to customs. This budget rebalance has in the expense section we can group in three directions. First of all, we can say recovery, healing, debt patching or I don't know what in health care is, and that's the biggest amount. The second is 700 million kunas that are supposed to be, to ease social measures, but today we haven't heard except for the subsidy of numbers, which is actually going to be done with these 700 million kunas. And he thinks that neither the government at this time, therefore, has a system of measures designed for these 700 million kunas and the rest is divided by the principle of a politically redistributive budget. So the rest goes to ministries and funds where these funds will not be allocated more transparently, but will be used primarily by political discretion to allocate these funds where we have similar local self-governments. We are still facing one such blackmail or obstruction today where the government in Zagreb County is corrected because the HSS coalition partners reportedly said they would not be able to implement their projects, or they would not be able to get money from the state budget if they did not throw the SDP out of power. And that's how it's obviously going to happen in the fall. In order for this to happen, this correction must be made in the state budget, and the reward will eventually come through that it is therefore blackmailing citizens to change their political will with their money that they have paid in the state budget. Of course I wonder how it was possible to plan and then do such a redistribution. For example, I personally proposed several amendments to the Croatian Roads plan, they were not accepted, and now we see that, let's say, three times as many roads on the islands as was planned three months ago. Because 300% is increasing the item of building transport infrastructure on islands. Either it wasn't known then or it's happening now. But it is hardly possible in three months that property legal relations can be resolved, projects solved, projected, tendered so that, now, by some 200 and some million, the point of building transport infrastructure on the islands could be increased. The same thing is the construction and reconstruction of state roads, the same thing is with the construction of connecting roads on highways, and that's where the items increase, and from once we saw that we needed these significant increases. But, look at the wonders, the sentence of the county road management doesn't increase. Although the coalition agreement said it must increase by 70%. This should, it should go to the county road administrations, and then the county should have it on its own. But you do not want to do this obviously, but you want to have money on Croatian roads and one who can even get to the director of Croatian roads because some can't, some can't, you'll get money and he'll be paved, these others of course won't get it, should they even say that next year's local elections are local. The same thing is with Croatian waters. In Croatian waters, at the moment of budgeting, there was a list of government contracts and sewerage twice as many as were budget items, I personally warned, then it was said, no, it will not be enough. Now all of a sudden, you can see there's not enough. Even what is now increased in Croatian waters will not be enough for what is already agreed on, what is already agreed, without talking about how plans exist. Because as it is possible in two or three months, to design or make an investment out of I don't know, 60, 70 million kuna, so it is necessary to re-solve property legal relations, to make projects, to issue a tender for performers, etc., etc. If it's done now, then it won't arrive. If it was a budget, then someone knew it, and of course they didn't. Today, preparing for this debate, I listened to what fellow ruling parties were saying in a pre-election campaign today, and then I went to read the budget, and then I went back to listening to pre-election shows, and again read the budget. I can't believe none of what they're saying is in the budget. None of what was promised isn't in the budget. And for example, colleagues promised, some of the senior government officials were going to start building the track The Second Track Long Selo-Vrbovec-Križevci in the spring of this year, promising publicly, has a tone record. They promised to build a fast road... - Cross-Warlords... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the spring of this year, it was only recently agreed to make the main project. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He's not even in the budget for this, is he? Otherwise, what is foreseen in the Croatian Roads' financial plan for this year for the construction of fast roads is not enough for what is what Croatian roads agreed in this year. And they won't be enough because they'll probably have to pay for it. Keep going. What about the sunrise? The Minister of Health here. I've submitted the amendment. The amendment has been made. He recently sent a letter and said, "We're going to build." I thought it was in the budget. There's no sunrise in the budget. How will we build the dawn which is the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that the dawn must be built. It's a home for children without proper family care. What about the crafts school in Koprivnica, which was also promised to start building? What about the Podravska highway where only two years after the government's decision was made, a cost-effective study of the project has not been done at all, let alone started to build on it. Why do I think this is a politically redistributive budget? Because, say, in the city, we received this notice on December 23rd 2007. He says, "We are informing you that the project to build an entrepreneurial zone in units of local and regional self-government for 2007 has not been able to meet your request for an entrepreneurial zone due to lack of funds." And he says, "Call for the 2008 competition." We've got a call. We're waiting again for our Christmas card to be told again that we didn't get the funds for the entrepreneurial zone. The senior government officials went to the municipality's days pardons and said some business zones would get money before the competition at the Ministry of Economy for Entrepreneurial Zones was called. And I really think everything is going to be politically redistributive. And another sentence if you'll excuse me. I will make a decision on the social care of the citizens of the town of Koprivnica ministers to you to see how you can make subsidisation of certain energys and other municipal and other services to citizens and indeed be to those who have nothing to pay with, and not to those who have numbers with few kilowatt hours spent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12748	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12749	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm correcting the incorrect assumption that the budget was passed three months ago. The Croatian Parliament held on 5 March 2008 brought the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008. And if I may add, I believe that Minister Shuker and all of us here MPs would be happy if every four months we went into rebalancing and increased income and expenditure by this amount by two and a half billion kuna. Thank you. [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12750	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12751	Mr. Vice President, sir, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So I want to make it clear that we're communicating with Mrs. Lobster in the future about the Children's House of the Sun. We communicate since we come from the same constituency and according to the reply of the Minister of Health, we know well that the Ministry of Health has responded that the children's home of the Sun is going into construction, but that the town of Koprivnica provides a natural location, location and infrastructure and that, and that it is appointed commission, and today we have communicated that this commission should take place during the second week with Mr. Director of the Children's House of Light and all of us so that we can achieve this project. But I do refer to a document that came to your address based on your representative's question. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12752	Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12753	So, my colleague Milinkovic, I really suppose you've read the memo, haven't you? The letter says that the city has to do something and that the state budget will provide funds for construction. I'd ask you, you and the Minister of Health, I'm uninvited, maybe I can't read, but here's a show me where the budget says building a children's home at sunrise in Koprivnica? Come on, show me. Otherwise, the government's decision in Koprivnica on 20 June 2006 was to build a home by 1.1.2009. That, and that he will return, the home is physically or politically returned, physically not yet. I've submitted the amendment to the budget. He's been rejected. I expected after the letter from the minister that it would indeed be here and that this house would begin to be built in the autumn. There's no here in this budget. Unless someone tells me where he has it. Otherwise, the budget was adopted on 5 March. It's July 2nd. So not even a little more than three months. And not four. A little more than three, not four.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12754	Thank you. The answer is short, Minister Milinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12755	Here's the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament... By the way, I'll answer to the children's house of sunrise. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're in the commission's appointment phase. We have been waiting for more than two months for the county and the city to name people into this commission that will have the task of making a project and providing funding in the state budget this year does not make any sense because the project is not finished for the children's home, and here I am now getting representatives of the city and the county, and we will set up a commission and funds for the children's home The sunrise will be secured in the next year or the next budget. This year, there's no point in securing it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12756	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representativeplatovar Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12757	It's not true you got representatives today. You've reached 1.6. 1.6 came to you with a return note. Maybe it's the big ministry, so he's been traveling inside the ministry for a long time. But I'll tell you, I'll fax you your return. You got, on May 18th you asked to be delivered to you and you got a 1.6. You got a memo from the people we suggest there. I don't see any reason why you shouldn't secure the funds. We've built a welfare center on the same principle. So somewhere in May we agreed that we would... No, no, wait a minute. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So let me say it. So in May we agreed that it would work. 1.9. was the main project and building permit on the table and if there is political will and money then it will be built. So if the city needs to do a project we'll do it by 1.9. Just tell me where the construction says I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12758	Thank you. We're moving on with an individual discussion. It is now up to Commissioner Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12759	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Croatia is undoubtedly entering a period of crisis. Croatia has been hit by ugly and nasty problems. In the country, prices are rampant, in Croatia only people's lives are getting cheaper. This, of course, is already causing a mass dissatisfaction of citizens. From Brussels, access funds blockades and the postponement of negotiations with increasingly unpleasant messages. And apparently here's the entry into the European Union turned into a difficult torture with a still uncertain outcome, and that's why now the rescue hope lies with NATO. All these problems that look to us today and want to appear almost as a natural disaster, as an elemental disaster, the problems are that have neither come unexpectedly nor unannounced. Croatian National Bank Governor Mr. Zeljko Rohatinski tried to alarm the public during the elections with the announcement that Croatia is threatening the stampede of inflation. He warned that inflation in this year would exceed 5%, and here is now close to 7%. So he warned about the seriousness of the situation. But the government did not hear it as a warning voice, but, in fact, it criticised critics. And I don't understand at all what this strong resistance to the truth is and how far it brings us, and how long it's led us in the first place. The government therefore did not hear it as a warning voice, but continued to increase budget spending. And like I said, it's like Banski Courts are lying on oil wells. It has also been critical of the incompetent and problematic use of EU funds. But indeed, the responsible government cannot constantly refer to an ex - government. All right, that's what he can ask. It means that there is no other argument if it seeks arguments in what has passed and cannot as Pontius Pilate follows hands and responsibility constantly shifts to others – it is the wrong global market, it is the mayor or mayor in power if it comes from opposition, it is the former government, and it is the power behind that authority and so on. It's all their fault. It's not the government's fault. Why is that? Why is such a government applied? Why is there so little confidence in himself? However, such justifications instead of making solutions sound empty today, they sound more empty today than usual. It is increasingly clear that the causes of this crisis lie in the reform sub-capacitation of the government itself. Foreign analysts warn very seriously that no other serious reform has been carried out with us. The Croatian government thus marches always, and only inflation gallops at the fifth and sixth speeds. The main roots, the awakening of this inflation is not touched, and this is where the government has to show its ability, or its real solutions. Show resistance to inflation, not to the truth. Obviously, it's all going to lead, and it's already leading to the erosion of the economic system. The establishment of the Price Monitoring Commission itself, whatever it means, was in fact the government would only get time instead of immediately finding emergency measures, but also to find systematic solutions. And so to convince the public that concerns about the fall of standards, that there is no reason to worry about the fall of standards and no reason for union threats. The government has often stressed lately and at this very time called and gathered the businessmen and in this way wanted to demonstrate to the public who is in fact the main culprit, even calling on some businessmen to lower their prices and thus further humiliate themselves. This is definitely government time. This is the time to collect those old debts, and these debts that keep coming. It's just that the illusionist tricks don't work anymore. They cost us dearly. The role of politics is not to hide the truth from the citizens, but to speak the greatest truth, the biggest and most unpleasant, and not to cloud the people and calm them with some Mandarin language. The price of fog has already been seen to be the most expensive. Inflation therefore threatens not only our economic but also political stability. We see how soon we will get here, in fact it is already included in the agenda of giving up Croatia and that criminal-legal jurisdiction for foreign citizens. It is not a government that is sure of itself that has a stable economy in which progress flourishes. No one can really argue that inflation is largely imported and imported and has arrived with import goods, especially with energy. However, our production is low. It's what's worrying, it's not enough, and our administration is ineffective. Therefore, there lies the responsibility of the authorities, and the responsibility of the authorities lies for the behaviour of the citizens, not the other way around. Because the government gave a false glow. The government was also giving citizens this one grade, the illusion of wealth, the politics that it was worth it. And now these bills come in at the checkout, and they're now money extruded primarily from the economy and invested and fed to a number of political and investment megalomanias, and the bills, no matter how skillfully they hide, they come in for payment. The latest research shows exactly how to live in Croatia, that households in Croatia cannot cover basic costs. And in vain you can show numbers one way or another. This is an exact research. The average household had 6370 kuna per month at the end of 2007, and the latest analysis of the turnover of income and expenditures concluded with last year shows that poverty is precisely on the threshold for this vast majority of our population. The price of electricity will hit most of the poorest, the most heated Dalmatia. Here's what the latest data says that as much as 42.5% of high-voltage electricity is spent right in Dalmatia. And right now these measures are completely inadequate to mitigate this social impact. In fact, what kind of social policy takes care of the consumption of numbers and doesn't even care about the owner of that number. We subsidize the number, abstract number, not people, we don't see people in it, and it's not Mr. Minister, we're all unison here, we unanimously passed the Tax Number Act, but we can already do something about it. We have people on donations and on welfare who are tax-free, and we should pay the state and not the state to them. And then how do you lead a fair policy? Therefore, the time is really serious that the government should finally find, I say systematic solutions, rather than work out some kind of provision that is constructed for one mass consumption of those famous "Potemkin's Villages".
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12760	Thank you. We have a replica, Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12761	Well, here's my colleague's dilemma, and today, a few times, there's been an highlighted dilemma about how not to subsidize a number, but how to subsidize citizens who really have nothing to pay from. So many cities in Croatia have decisions on the social care of citizens and these cities have a model and a system to reach citizens, that is, how citizens come to them to subsidise certain housing costs. For example, the town of Koprivnica has that decision, it subsidises housing costs, food assistance, home care and care, the cost of education of children and youth, single aid also has a settlement of funeral costs. Among other things, subsidized and electrical energy. Not those who spend a little bit, but those who have no money to pay for what they spend and in our city decision is so we have a social censorship, and then we said that for singles and two-member families we subsidize up to 150 kilowatt hours a month, and for a multi-member family up to 200 kilowatt hours no matter how much, so annually they spend. We then motivate them to be rational about it. ... Up to 150 kilowatts we subsidize, pay them completely. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Why am I not limited? So, the city completely settles the cost of 150 kilowatt hours for a single person or for a two-member family, and if he spends more than that, then he'll have to pay, and no matter how much he spends, therefore we don't subsidize the number, but we subsidize really people who have nothing to pay. The same thing is with water, sewage, home trash, gas, etc., etc. So we've determined how much the price per household member is per month, how much the city will pay or co-finance, and not to say that those who spend a little on the count that they have a lower price of electricity or that they pay less.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12762	Thank you. You really shouldn't throw yourself directly because it's not forbidden to tell the truth in the Rules of Procedure. You can say whatever you want, understand? You just don't have to insult each other. Someone's gonna argue one thing, and someone else, it doesn't matter. It's an integral part of... We have one correction to an incorrect quote, Mr. Andrija Hebrang. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12763	Thank you very much. Here, Mr. President, I have three corrections. First, our dear colleague Ingrid said the government is not implementing systematic solutions. The constitutional solutions of this government are based on the economic programme that you had the opportunity to read, discuss it, and it is consistently implemented. This inaccuracy suggests that this budget is based on "Potemkin's Villages". "Potemkin's Villages" was when you touched the tower and it collapsed. This is not a tower, this is the result of systematic work. The economic indicators behind this are solid walls, not the towers of Potemkin's Villages. And in the end, you said, of course, incorrectly that the government is not implementing the reform policy. I don't know what Mr. Shucker got from the World Bank in America. He's been granted a top-of-the-line admission to reform. It means the World Bank is mistaken. I choose Ingrid between the World Bank and Ingrid, so please, Mr. Minister, go get that confession back to Washington, it's unfair.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12764	Thank you. Mr. Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go, Mr. Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12765	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here you are, also one contribution to the debate. I believe that this budget rebalance is a confirmation that the fiscal policy of the state is very much the respect of the economic situation in the environment and all these crises that we have been talking about. It means from energy, financial to drastic food collection. That the government's expenditures and this rebalancing are still very responsible and very respectable that this rebalancing compared to the planned 2008 budget also went to a deficit reduction and is now planned at an annual level of 1.3%. I think it's a good message and in a psychological sense, so it saves the state, so it's a clear message to everyone else. In a situation where food and energy price increases constitute additional inflationary pressure, the fiscal policy of the state and the monetary policy of the CNB should, on the one hand, be receptive, primarily towards public consumption and household consumption, and on the other, these two policies should be encouraging for the development of the economy, entrepreneurship and employment growth because there is no development without new employment. It encourages therefore the data that we had that unemployment this year, so compared to the same period last year was reduced by 30 thousand, or more than 11%. There are today in Croatia and those economic experts who advocate stronger government debt, an increase in deficits as one of the models that would increase consumption, especially investment, but under the conditions of increased inflation, inflationary pressures with uncertain global economic developments, the budget must be on the verge of curbing state spending and even stronger spending control and deficit cuts. In fact, it is certain that state consumption can generate demand, can generate economic growth, but also in this situation, and increase inflation. And if you choose it, I'm absolutely up for this model, so this is the budget. So, in order to preserve macroeconomic stability and reduce inflationary pressure, this means keeping inflation as much as possible under control, we expect, above all, from the Croatian National Bank, that, with the existing strengthening of restrictive policy mechanisms, this primarily refers to the reduction of credit expansion, the placement of banks and what is therefore leading to foreign borrowing. Also, the exchange rate policy preserves the stability of the kuna and also mitigates the inflational effects. On the other hand, with regard to press policy, we planned to grow a GDP of 4.5% and a budget deficit of 1.3% this year, they would say cautiously and responsibly. But regardless of this, according to the 2008 State budget proposal, believing and knowing that only full employment leads us to economic development and prosperity, nearly 2 billion kunas have been provided for the development of entrepreneurship from the promotion of exports, from the promotion of production and the increase of competitiveness. It's about $400 million more than last year and 100% more than in 2004. And in this rebalancing of this 2.6 billion kuna of increased expenditure, so from 114 to 117 billion kuna, 138 million kuna will be invested in the industrial policy of the Republic of Croatia as preparations for membership in the European Union, i.e. an increase in competitiveness, and above all on subsidies for the processing industry which is the worst, most difficult, therefore textile, goat and shoe industry. Also, this budget rebalance is the answer to the increasingly difficult situation of individual social categories, which is again the result of the collection of energy, municipal services and food purchases and we see that in these 2 billion 600, the planned 600 million kuna should go as structural support for the population and the economy. And it should be made clear, therefore, that this budget in such a complex economic situation and environment, would not be consistent, could not be rational or sustainable, that the Ministry of Finance and the Government have not been fiercely committed to the consolidation of the budget since 2004, and what we know to say popularly in the management of state finances. This means that in a situation like this, we can afford a 2.3% deficit despite inflationary pressures. That's mostly the result because we've got state finances. Also, here was the Minister of Health, since I am also in the Administrative Council of the Clinical Hospital Osijek, given that for two, three years we have been following as members of the administrative council and business, what is certainly to be welcomed, so this billion and 400 million, and especially this part of which is said to go into debt settlement and liabilities, but the other part goes into structural reforms to health, that is to say, reforms where first of all is the emphasis on rationalisation and where all directors, so as managers, have undertaken the obligation to streamline business and that this is also related in some way to maintaining them in these functions. Therefore, there will be an opportunity, meaning that after 31.07. to create and underline a line, to make a balance sheet and to see where these maximum efforts have been made to rationalise and where these quotas are also to be reviewed, means these quotas approved according to the HZZO, but certainly a safe step and I believe that this will bring good results. And here, in the end, I can only say that I support this budget, first of all, because I think it's in this situation of the economic environment, inflationary pressures, etc. the most sustainable and stable variant.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12766	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12767	Col. Kovacevic, you said there was no reason without a new job that I could agree with, but then how do you explain that in this rebalancing position investments in deficit interests of the estimated 2 million and 700 thousand, which is extremely little, is now being cut off, taken, reduced by millions of kuna. Does this mean that we are focusing on importing the workforce of deficiting professions, is this some kind of new policy of the Croatian government, since there has been a lot of talk about it. You also told your colleague that this rebalancing response to the increasingly difficult situation of socially endangered groups, and here a lot of today's speakers have said that exactly fuel collection promotes all kinds of species and accelerators all kinds of gatherings. And you see us at this point in terms of fuel, the cheaper Slovenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Greece, Ireland, Latvia, Lithuania, Hungary, Poland, Switzerland, and I wonder how these countries, ranging from transition to highly developed, manage to have less fuel prices, and the Croatian Government is gone, and we also realized that from this collection, they are also full of VAT. And one thing that's so small for me and as a couriness is interesting. You have the means for spiritual assistance in the prison system. They amounted to 350,000 kuna, which you'll agree isn't much. Do you know how much this rebalancing eliminates? 340 thousand kuna. And there are 10 thousand kunas left for the projected funds for spiritual assistance in the prison system. ... Now you figure out what you want or people are only mentally calm when they're in prison, so you have to increase that help to those outside of prison or I don't know what it's about. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12768	This is Mr. Kovacevic speaking.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12769	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In fact, it is not good to talk about an item, but about the overall economic policy. So, right now in the Republic of Croatia when we were talking about unemployment problems, then we were not just talking about the number, but also about the structure of unemployment, which is, if we are looking at some of our county and our region, actually, the biggest problem. So employees at this point must respond to the challenges of new technologies, new markets, new employment needs, and I think it's an absolute policy when we say that our economy will be based on a knowledge society. So, not knowledge like some kind of elitism, but knowledge in the function of economic development. So, knowledge that will be applicable. Knowledge that will have skills. And if we're looking at the most successful companies in the world, I don't know from Hewit Packard, if we're watching Silicon Valley, etc. The only thing that contributes to their huge profit is knowledge. Knowledge becomes a comparative advantage of one economy, one nation, and we think that these programmes that are implemented by the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Science, therefore both for retraining and for further education, for lifelong education, etc., that these are the only possible cost-effective measures in the long term and that we must therefore adapt our unemployed for the needs of new labour markets. Also, I'm going to re-emphasis this information. So 2 billion kuna goes to encourage employment. So, from going to an increase in competitiveness...../President: Thank you./......from encouraging exports. Therefore, it is a consistent policy that is structured.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12770	Thank you. We have another replica. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12771	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Kovacevic, I would agree with the good part of your debate, but I cannot agree that the rebalancing of this budget is what it is, the only thing the government could do and the best it could do to help Croatian citizens. We could use those two and a half billion kunas in a much better way. Let's say a reduction in salary contributions and thus a nominal increase in salaries for Croatian workers by a certain amount. On the other hand, this measure that the government will subsidise about electricity seems absolutely illogical since it really won't be possible to tell whether or not it will come to those who need it most. You could also propose an INA subsidy measure for the fuel price of gasoline. Who spends less than 50 liters a month to pay a lower price of gasoline. What I'm trying to say is how pointless this is. Of course, that's not possible either with the INA, and it doesn't seem possible and it won't get any effect on HEP either. That is why I say that you could help Croatian citizens through social and other measures, tax discharges, and not like this where a large part of those who do not need that help will achieve it. That's why I don't think that hep measure makes any sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12772	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12773	Dear President, honourable ministers, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Introductoryly, I cannot say, or repeat, that the 2008 budget was adopted in early March, and already only after 3 months, so at the end of May there was an awareness of the need for its amendment. It is certain that everyday life is changing, that the environment is dynamic, although it would actually be better not to change, because unfortunately it is regularly changing up. But in this particular case, there is still a question of the reality of the planning of state financiers. Quite unserious for the most important financial document of a country to change it within three months. But let's say what is proposed by this rebalancing. The proposed changes increase the budget from the initially planned 115.6 billion to the new 118 billion or 2.4 billion kuna. And on what basis are these budget revenues planned? Based on macroeconomic indicators for the first five months of this year and their assessment by the end of the year. So what kind of macro-economic movement is it that has triggered such optimism? So here, the growth rate of industrial production in the first five months of this year is 3.6% and the real growth of gross domestic product for the whole of 2008 is estimated to be 4.5%, which is a 1.1 percentage point slower than the growth of gross domestic product in the previous 2007. On the other hand, the rate of inflation, the measurement of consumer prices already stood at over 6% in June or to be quite precise 6.4%. In July, it is estimated at around 7%, and by the end of the year if it grows at the current rate it could reach what we do not want a double-digit rate. The comparisons work at the same time in 2007 we had completely conflicting movements. So we had a 7% economic growth, and inflation was 3%. However, despite the slowdown in economic growth, the government's cash register is getting better and better, which is essentially contradictory. What's the catch? Most of it in inflation, although Mr. Ministers do not want to admit it, or deny it, because higher prices bear higher sales taxes. So higher inflation is higher income than VAT and a clearly more full state cash register. And the largest part of the expected increase in the budget from the previously mentioned 2.4 billion kuna is planned to be achieved precisely from the traffic tax, which is the VAT which is normally the most significant income item of the state budget with a share of around 45%. Therefore, VAT revenues are planned to increase by an additional 1.3 billion kuna compared to the original plan set for 2008. Another 380 million kuna plans to be realised from the profit tax, warning that profits from profit tax in 2008 have been paid on the basis of profits achieved in 2007 and that we know that profits in 2007 have been achieved in high economic growth conditions. In 2008, economic growth, I said, is much lower and the question is how profits will be achieved and what is actually being translated into consumption by the proposed rebalancing. In what does the state plan to actually spend extra income? According to the proposing rebalancing, the expected funds will be channelled into the programmes, I quote: "which encourage economic growth and reduce the negative impact of global trends primarily on the price of energy and food on the standard of citizens". In this sense, the vast majority of the newly planned funds or, more specifically, 1.4 billion kunas are intended for health care. So hospitals and the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. Another 334 million kunas are designed to promote the knowledge and excellence of Croatian society, whatever that means. 200 million are foreseen for regional development, and 138 million to promote the success of the economy, which is extremely important to us coming from northwestern Croatia, since these funds are planned to support the textile, leather and shoe industry, which are in an extremely difficult situation, and I say, in Međimurje and Zagorje, they still have very great importance in the overall economy. A total of 600 million kuna is secured at the position of the Ministry of Finance to support the economy and citizens in order to ease the price impact, primarily energy. Unfortunately, we heard not once today a co-financing measure of spent electricity, and in particular an increase in personal deduction from a thousand to a thousand 800 kuna, will not help the most needed, the poorest, but rather the opposite. It will contribute more to those with higher salaries, but will therefore result in an increase in the non-taxable share of income even in spite of the legal increase in the share of municipalities, cities and counties in income tax revenues as a result of regional income spillage. The richer regions will get more, and the less poorer, and in fact the hypocrisy of government measures aimed at protecting the standards of Croatian citizens, is being pressed on by the time of escalating inflation. If the budget is a policy instrument for the ruling coalition, and it certainly is, then it must be said that this policy does not contribute to Croatian citizens because in the regulated Western European countries, energy prices rise to the most impoverished social transfers. Of course, the assumption of the realisation of such a policy is the identification of the poor, and this is impossible without an arranged register of social incomes. So it is more than clear that the state measures taken primarily protected itself, not the citizens, because the budget is being charged for the crisis state as well, but as one respected Croatian economist said, these measures are only government demonstration exercises. A weak attempt to show social sensitivity and compensate for the price blow to citizens' standards. Indeed, it is true that these are fire measures, here is the honourable representative, gone, Mr. Andrija Hebrang also said that these measures are actually being put out by the government. So these fire measures have nothing to do with creating conditions for higher economic growth which only can provide a higher standard for Croatian citizens or to be picturesque, I will say these measures are only actually another patch on the pants of beggars.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12774	Thank you. Mr. Representative Kresimir Gulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12775	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. Here I would look back at a few words on this budget rebalance and I would disagree with my colleague if the government were shutting down and he was a fireman. Yeah, the government bought new canadelaurs and helicopters for God's sake, but I'm sure you don't need to shut down the state budget. We are aware that any debate on the budget or amending the budget raises the curiosity and attention of all those who expect by their own or personal assessment of high expectations and changes in these budgets. We are also aware that the state budget must take care of the environment and stability within the state finances. Today's Croatian government is taking care of it, and as the proposed one shows, here is the rebalancing which compared to 2007 is an increase of 9.6 billion or 8.8% while the 2008 increase is in the plan from here, these 2.5 billion. We've seen from where the government plans to spend, spend this extra funding of 2.5 billion, so now I say, these are support to the population and economy of 600 million, Ministry of Science, Education and Sports of 334, the Ministry of Justice 50, because we had a debate about the courts' headquarters where these funds will be provided, here with this rebalancing, the Ministry of Health and Social Care, it's... the highest billion and 400 and the same to the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy of EUR 200 million. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Investment in regional development is an investment in infrastructure because I say when it is invested in regional development that, here is the construction of waterways, sewage, road construction and all that I think is important for development and cities and municipalities and counties, and in this way I think it greatly improves and improves the standard of these citizens living right in these units of local self-government. I have to look back here at last week's debate where it was said, there was the Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area, so here we had a debate. It was said that the new law destroys those units of local self-government. I can't agree with that because I come from a unit like that. It does not mean destroying units that had mountain-mounted status if 25% of those tax reliefs in 2011 were lifted for our entrepreneurs, if we still know that all those units retain all the benefits they had so far, and that is to say the return of a full refund on the annual application where the state allocates some 550 million a year. These units retain benefits that income tax is complete, here's those units. We also know that there is a mass of benefits of importing machinery without customs, so the benefits of the farmers are, in particular, in the dairy and other branches that have large benefits because they are in the area. So a number of other benefits and benefits remain in these areas, so these areas are not compensated, here is the new Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area. Income tax is income, we know the unit of local self-government, and there has also been a lot said that the new law has lost a lot. I'm still saying, here it was and today it was said on several occasions that these units had been realized, most units except 2.3 of the city's higher incomes from 10 to 30%. By achieving these incomes, I think that we can solve both the social needs and the problems we have in our municipalities and cities if we have bigger revenues. Here, colleague Klaric said she had a 20 million higher budget for 2007 and gave 5 million to social needs. So I can say the same thing, here in our community, we've had more income for the same kind of $5.6 million, and we've invested those funds in a kind of infrastructure that's a basic prerequisite for development, and then we've invested in a better standard of citizens, but we've invested in subsidies. For example, ZET is expensive, we all know at the beginning of the year, I don't know 27%, we here, we didn't raise the price of ZET in Bistra because we could say, here's what Bandic did to you, but we accepted an increase in the price of ZET on the budget and at the cost of the budget, we didn't burden the citizens with a new price. Vrtic, the economic price went up. It is realistic that the prices of other growths, we took this burden of increasing the economic price of kindergartens to the community, as well as water, that I do not list a number of other problems we have taken, so we did not ask citizens and increase prices. I have to say something about social benefits. I think this government is taking care of social benefits. And when we talk about social giving mass, the way here today is said that we have maltene orphans I don't know 50%, that people are hungry. The mass has been said, today when I was listening here, here are some colleagues from the opposition who are threatening us with hunger and crisis, that, I don't know, we're going to be in a state of emergency. I'm sure it's hard. That there are families that are hard to live with and with small incomes, especially where children are in the family. But I can tell you examples of a few because I've been working here in local self-government for a very long time. For you to have, we finance the Red Cross, the food of the powerless and the sick. Then you have a case where I went to check out these individual people's property. You come to know that the one the municipality feeds him and his mom has a value of real estate of around EUR 250 thousand. Sir, we can no longer feed you through the Red Cross. Please take this if you're ready to transfer that property to the municipality so we'll have to worry... you while you're alive and burying you and your mom. “Yes” says: “I wouldn’t do that, I have a brother. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would give it to my brother." So this is exactly the one, this personal identification number that we're going to get, I think, to solve a lot of these things because a lot of them give the country to their children then comes to the Social Care Center and asks for social assistance. I'm telling you in Bistro there are no hungry ones, no thirsty ones, no winters, no roofless people because we've made order and found that there aren't many such social problems, and here in perception the public is creating such that there are many hungry and powerless. I believe there are some, but certainly not as much as they say. As far as VAT is concerned, I have to say, it's said that VAT should be reduced. Well, I don't know, those are my personal thoughts. VAT, I think the highest budget is filled with VAT by the ones who spend the most. That... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the most VAT is paid by those rich who spend a lot of money, who build a lot, who invest a lot. You fill the budget state with that VAT. Here's the state, and the government is this VAT that she's been incomeming here is just returning it in some way to social giving and easing here's these unfortunately shocks that we have power collection, energy, oil cannot be avoided because unfortunately that's what's on the world market. Well, the same thing was said that this budget wasn't a developmental one, that it was a firehouse, I don't know what kind of one. It has already been said if you gentlemen of the opposition with 75 billion in 2004 could do anything then I think this government with 118 billion can do the same much more and certainly satisfy a lot more than you could with your 75. The same is mentioned and compared here our country with some countries in the environment. It bothers me personally because I think we have to admit to each other that no state in transition and there are... I think a dozen even European Union Member States are showing statistics that we have an even better standard than 10 EU Member States. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not to list Romania, Bulgaria, Estonia and I don't know which, and they didn't have a war. We had a war, unfortunately, that ended 13 years ago, and today we feel its consequences. Not to say they are, I think there's a cost somewhere around 10% of the budget. Well, that's my people, that's the money that Croatia didn't have to invest that money in rebuilding, in returning, in defenders, unfortunately for all that were the consequences of that war I believe that today would be much further than some of which you spoke earlier. Here I think this budget has been developed. I think this rebalance shows that the government is doing well. And for all of this, I will support the adoption of budget rebalancing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12776	Thank you. Replica Mr. Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12777	My colleague, I'm surprised at you. I now replicate to you because you claimed in this debate on the budget that the recent amendments to the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas will not harm residents in these areas. So be careful. They paid a profit tax of 75% of the profit tax revenue. Now he'll have to pay, pay... So she won't have that 25% relief. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now you're saying that what they're going to have to pay more in the government register is that it's better for them. You claim that to the citizens of these areas. Second. Your cynicism about these poor people has startled me. You say it's not true that Stazic is now saying that people have nothing to eat, that they're hungry when they come for social aid and they actually have EUR 250 thousand of their own property. So what do you say to those citizens? What? You're hungry. So sell an apartment and you'll have something to eat. Why do you need an apartment? That's your message to the citizens of this country. That's your answer to our concern for poverty. Let them sell everything just so they can eat. Well, that's what Prime Minister Sanader told them. Thank God you have more to eat. And that's great for you. You don't deserve it better. That's your message to those citizens. This cynicism in the Croatian Parliament, which I have heard from you now, I really couldn't hope for.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12778	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12779	Well, Mr. Stazic, as far as I heard cynicism, I didn't replicate it. I have to answer that. You, I didn't say you needed someone to sell an apartment or a house so you could be full. But I'm telling you, if I had a citizen who had ten construction sites around his house and his land, he wouldn't sell it. When I ask him if he wants the community to take care of him, to live neatly, to provide him with heating, electricity, and everything he needs for a normal life, then he won't because he has a brother to whom he'll leave it. So I told that brother to feed him and then he'd give him everything he needed. And as for these 25%, Mr. Stazic, 25% of the new law stipulates that the relief for entrepreneurs is being lifted in 2011. This does not mean that reliefs are lifted in the mountain-mounted area for taxes, for, on salary, for all those tax returns, for farmers of benefits and for the mass of other benefits, for imports of machinery without customs duties and so on. It's just that it's being abolished, and this whole thing remains a relief that will continue to benefit the municipalities and cities that have that status. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12780	Replica Mr. Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12781	A colleague of mine also refers to the part where you spoke about the poorest. While you were talking, I got a call from a citizen. I'll tell you That's right, that's right, I went over there and answered my phone. [[The intruders don't understand.]] He was talking about his family. So specifically, try to fit it into that scheme of yours or yours as you wish. So in the town of Sitno Donje from where Nediljko Mihanović, former president of the Parliament, so you all know where he is, lives and Mrs Nediljka's Introduction, who is 96 years old, is deaf, her father died in the Austro-Hungarian army as a Croat, what she receives monthly is 600 kuna. And this citizen, a revolving citizen, called to say that to the public I say it is a name and a last name, so fit it into that scheme of yours about how some take advantage of the well-being of a country that is so sensitive, and with this rebalancing, it actually responded to that social threat of individuals. I'm saying this precisely because of the tone of cynicism that I felt in your speech, and I'm sure this citizen who answered and his name you can get, I don't think you'd think I was making it up, the woman is alive, lives where he lives, I told you where he is, who he is, and what he is. Deafness, 96 years old, is the only thing that looks like a war orphan to anyone who died in World War I and that's alive, 600 kuna a month. So imagine how she survives, reading this budget and listening to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12782	Well, I have to answer to the gentleman's line. Well, I'm here as head of a community, just to give you an example, I'm socially sensitive and I'm helping the poor and the powerless. I specifically built three houses last year for poor people who couldn't do it. And I'm trying to help everyone to have a roof over the main one, and it's not winter, and it's not hungry, but I've set an example for you, and there are people like that who use all these benefits, who sell the country big and then come to the Social Care Center and ask for help. I don't say they're all like that, but there are people who do that, Mr. Jurovic. There are those who divide the country to children and then come to the center and ask for help and there are such. I'm telling you from experience, because I'm the head of a community that's experiencing it every day and asking for help, and at the same time they have real estate and construction sites, etc. I don't say he sells the house, sells what he lives in, but if you have five sites, and you ask the state for help, I'm sorry, so give it a try. Well, in Germany, I believe that you can't get social aid or any kind of giving, or any kind of privilege while you have some real estate, and you wouldn't want to sell it. That's what I was going to say, if you understood me, obviously you didn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12783	Thank you. Mr. Agent Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12784	In these days, the political community and its success are measured by the amount and the way it cares about its future, and that actually means how much and how it invests in scientific research and education. If it were just about how much, then we could be relatively satisfied, because this budget is growing with a perfectly decent dynamic. However, as Mrs Roksandić said and as Mr Šetić said, it is about how these funds are used and how we can achieve better goals and better results by the same means. I am concerned, and at moments and horrors, a terrible amount of oscillation almost to be called gandering run by the Ministry of Science and Education and Sports in the way they function and choose their priorities, as seen through the budget. I've also listed some data during the debate, so I'm going to do it again. For health and veterinary services, an increase of a thousand and 60% is foreseen, for doctoral studies and scholarships an increase of 957%, the Education Agency needs to grow by 183.5%, and free textbooks with 214%. Even if these figures were to express certain needs, then the question arises that we didn't know about it four months ago and that we didn't want to hear any arguments about what was said at the time we were making the budget. This team more than, more or less, the current team has four years of planning experience and has actually brought some strategic documents that I'm afraid or afraid of are not too worried about. In addition to these 334 million kunas, the budget of the Ministry of Science and Education is still being allocated by over 80 million, so the overall rebalancing or better said is a total change at 3.5, not a whole 2.85%. What worries me is that certain items that we thought were strategic are falling. Investment issues are at 81.55% of what was planned 4 months ago, basic education reform as if it had been completed, has fallen to 23.7%, and secondary education curricula has been produced, so secondary education has dropped to 68%. I don't know what's happened in the past four months, to be allowed and to be justified by these oscillations. Thirdly, it is generally known that overall education, rests, focuses and grows with higher education especially after graduate studies. Higher education is also growing which is positive, but is growing less than a percentage of the education budget increase, the entire ministry. It grows by 2.55% compared to 2.85% of the ministry. It is particularly worrying that it gives up the arrival of this government and the previous government, the most productive university, the oldest university and university that produces almost 80% of scientific research works and the largest number of patents in the country, the Zagreb University from which all other universities have grown in the past 30 years and which many universities in Croatia are serving today. It grows by half the amount for which other universities grow, so Zagreb University grows 1.26%, Rijeka University 2.35, Osijek 2.13%, Dubrovačka 2.58, Zadar and Pulsko are at the level of the ministry's growth, and the Split University of Miracles is constantly growing above the average this time of 2.92%. That may be justified, but it would be good to find out the reasons for that justification in the case of justification. Science is also growing less than the ministry's budget rise, but the prices or costs of joining the European Union in science are increasing by 42%, 42 and a half percent as if we didn't know that 4 months ago. Capital investments fall by 4 and a half percent compared to planned investments. And what is crucial for scientific and research activity is actually publishing activity on the one hand and purchasing foreign magazines falling by more than 10%. In the year when the legal obligation to license the director is introduced, the director's training also falls by 28% and so on. It therefore seems to me that these elements of the budget are highly contradictory in relation to the strategic documents brought by this House as well as the ones brought by the Government. And yet I believe that some of these changes will distance us from the declared goal of the knowledge society and not bring it closer. And so it seems to me that some of these changes are therefore ineffective. I express more dissatisfaction and concern that budget increases are used for non-essential or non-strategic purposes. As the items on the strategic ones, I'm sorry, they're shrinking on the strategic items, and so I don't think even the amendments to this can help, so I'm not going to write them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12785	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12786	Mr. President, gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The vast majority of those present in this House were certainly involved in creating discussions and budgeting at various levels from municipalities, cities, counties of course and the state budget. And we are all aware of how much skill and strength must naturally and compromise to invest in this adoption. But we have also all participated naturally in the changes and additions of the budget at these levels and I have communicated with many colleagues and they have said that this is always, most often, about the reduction of income in those environments. And here we are today thank God we have the ability to increase income by two and a half billion and then I hear, "It's not good." So how is it not good? It has to be. It's kind of wrong for me. Much has been said today in discussions on redistributions by individual ministries, and let me, of course, welcome each of these structural aids 600 million, but let me just look at two areas specifically, which is the Ministry of Regional Development, Forest and Water Economy, where 200 million kuna is intended for therefore units of special state care and water supply. It is necessary to say that water supply is a basic civilizational fluid and that it is safe for the government's 2008-2011 programme to be waterline for each household to be safe, there is no need for a special comment and that water supply contributes to the quality of life in each environment. But I want to underline one more thing, contributions and health care. It is unnecessary to say that today is not the time for children to drink and nitrites and nitrates, and God forbid any other harmful substances so that I believe that this will contribute in that part. With regard to the Ministry of Health and mentioned billions and 400 million kunas, it is certainly necessary to say that investment in health has not been thrown away. It is an investment in the future of the state, in the economy, in demographic recovery and all kinds of development. It must have been done a lot in this area from the health development strategy 2006 to 2011 to the national preventive programme. It's worth mentioning in this place from mom's diagnostics, from detecting breast cancer. Since the discovery of colon cancer, diabetes, as well as natural intervention cardiology. Surely these things have contributed to our country’s taking on the World Health Organization’s standards of a very high place in terms of availability and quality of health care. The government's 2008-2011 programme also aims to consolidate the health system. And the implementation measures are known to have reached the obligations of HZZO and all institutions in the Republic of Croatia. Ensuring resources to cover the commitments made, health institutions older than 180 days and to ensure payment of so-called sickness benefits and maternity leave. And now here's really one big step in that direction of consolidation. So 60% of this, these rebalancing funds are almost going to the Ministry of Health. We've heard billions of dollars about the hospital system. 500 million means for these hospital budgets, new limits. We've heard this many times today from Mr. Secretary. And, of course, 500 million for recovery. 400 for the Croatian Health Insurance Office for the implementation of obligations to pharmacies and health institutions. Of course, we heard today and on the current morning of Mr. Minister that it is not certain that this will not cure the health system. But we also heard one very clear call that in this, this is a good step towards health reform and that in that part everyone is invited to participate in this health reform. All, therefore, of course of those employees who make their contribution truly diligently working in all areas but of course all of us here and those users of health services. We heard about tobacco products here a short time ago: "Because of the consequence of smoking in, it is spent on the health budget of two billion kuna." Two billion kuna due to the consequences of smoking. It is therefore certain that education should be done in that part and commendable that it is the Ministry, which is the Croatian Health Insurance Institute in this area for certain activities. Here's to the specifically expensive drug fund that is now, it's been a long time these days. By the way, 50 million has been increased by the Expensive Medicines Fund and so on. Well, in that part, it certainly is necessary to approach this, this step towards health reform, and that part should say yes to the rebalancing, but it should also be said to "yes" to non-smoking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12787	Thank you. Ms. Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12788	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The macroeconomic indicators talk about favourable developments in the real economy since the growth of industrial production, retail trade, growth in construction works are expected for 2008 and real growth in the gross domestic product of 4 and a half percent but also a reduction in unemployment. All of this led to an increase in the total revenues of the state budget by two and a half billion kuna. Excess revenue over the planned Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes this rebalancing proposal to introduce structural support to the population and the economy and to reduce the impact of energy prices on the increase of strategic stock stocks, to support the development of industry. It means an additional 138 million for regional development programmes 200 million for enhanced tourism development, as well as for promoting the knowledge and excellence of Croatian society, modernising the judicial system in order to create a better and business environment, but also for greater legal certainty and citizens and investors, which provides an additional 500 million kuna and very significant healthcare resources of 1.7 billion kuna. Under these funds, the government of the Republic of Croatia has found additional funding for regional development programmes and thus confirmed its commitment to equating regional development in the Republic of Croatia by strengthening the weak. I will only talk about this segment and try to analyze this particular part of investment in regional development, meaning these 200 million kunas give a review of the rebalancing for this area. Therefore, for regional development programmes, an additional 200 million kuna has been allocated for investments in the area of specific state care and development of local units, as well as for the development of water supply systems as a prerequisite for any development. So, additional funds go, but as the Government predicted, means strategies and programmes on capital projects, to bring the regulations of the Republic of Croatia into line with European Union regulations, but also to the promotion and information services of the European Union. It also goes into the programmes for the integrated development of the local community and there is a significant increase. So it's planned for 52% or for a very significant 92 million kuna. The funds also go to the exile return programmes still, though some forget it. So, refugees and displaced persons are increasing compared to the planned 10%. It also goes on residential care outside the area of special state care, but also on building facilities for social purposes, where the increase is 4 and a half percent. For the socio-economic recovery programmes, the area of special state care from the World Bank loan programme is also increasing our component by three times, and this is good because it is about capital aid to local self-government units, money donations, aid to farmers and craftsmen, small and medium enterprises, demining. But while I am here on demining, I will mention that the funds in the positions of the Croatian Mine Action Centre are increasing by an additional 20 million kuna. Additional resources for the development of water supply systems are also allocated under these funds. The increase is 39%. It is good that additional funds are aimed at this particular area, because the construction of these systems on PDS is a prerequisite for any development, particularly economic. I will only mention that in the Zadar County area in those areas where infrastructure projects have been solved, i.e. water supply we have extremely valuable business zones both in Polnik and in Stankovci. Where you don't, there's development going much slower. I will also mention here that even today a large part of Zadar County has no water. The hinterland of Zadar, Biograd, Benkovca, but also the second ring of Zadar islands is also waterless. Part of these additional funds goes both to these areas and to the system of Dalmatia and to the western direction, the waterway towards the Vira, as well as to the continuation of the island direction. It also increases assistance to local and regional self-government units for water and drain systems. It also grows from 10 to 47 million kuna. The funds are also targeted at protection, these additional ones are aimed at protecting water and seas from pollution by 20%. The local component of the Adriatic Sea protection project is also increasing, i.e. the Adriatic project. And here is only one part of the funding provided by the Government of the Republic of Croatia through the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy to areas of special state concern for economic recovery and development. A significant part of the other funds provided for in the budget, means the rebalancing of health, social welfare, education, structural support to the economy, tourism will also be felt by residents in the area of special state care with previously developed regional operational programmes, established development agencies and existing entrepreneurship infrastructures such additional resources will certainly produce good results and will contribute to the convergence of these areas and will contribute to the development of what is also the ultimate objective of the Government's programme and regional development. The Government of the Republic of Croatia also strengthens mechanisms to ensure that available resources are spent more effectively to support areas with developmental difficulties and this rebalancing is a confirmation of the consistency of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and responsibility towards regional development and residents in the area of special state concern. Because as soon as there is a possibility, some of the additional funds point to these areas. So I'm going to support this rebalancing proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12789	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12790	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. It is known that political theory speaks of the budget as the elemental instrument of achieving the programming of a political authority. However, changing budget items from 100 to 7 and a half thousand percent, watch out for 7 and a half thousand percent in this budget rebalancing proposal suggests either an absolute lack of planning or incompetence. Because it is possible that only 3 and a half months or 4 months after the budget we have adopted in the Croatian Parliament, there is a need for some items to be changed for such fantastic amounts. If it is true that the budget is a reflection of political programmes and pre-election promises and policies, let us ask ourselves how such fantastic oscillation and fluctuation is possible in the sphere of political ideas. It is also an interesting structure to fill a budget which, unfortunately, is not the result of economic growth but inflation, the increase in energy prices primarily. Let's just mention VAT on oil, imports of other people's goods, and mostly on loans approved by other people's banks. Among other things, it is interesting that the government plans to increase budgeting and disbursement here, I quote from this document: “Immigrants and natural resources”, because 350% of the planned revenue increases from selling natural resources in that head. So the question arises as to what kind of natural wealth the Government is selling and what will remain for generations to come, more so than some World Bank documents that predict that somewhere in 2030, Croatian citizens will own only 25-30% of the territory, so the Croatian country, in most cities and national parks. There, and this budget rebalancing speeds up the skating of Croatian capital and the entire economy owned by foreign banks and companies, and speeds up and skating the Republic of Croatia into financial debt and the state is indeed acting as a drunk richer because, for example, the budget provides for an increase in interest for approved and unrealised loans by 962%. What kind of message is that? It's important that the loans are taken, then we pay the interest, and we don't even have to think about their realisation. If you look at the item relating to bank loans received, and I repeat that other financial institutions are owned by other financial institutions outside the public sector, it increases from 75 million kuna to fantastic 5 billion 652 million kuna, which is an increase of the incredible 7000 531.1%. Let us remind ourselves that the IMF in its recent report states that it is time for governments of the Southeast European countries, including the Republic of Croatia, to stop overheating in foreign bank loans, halting deficits, external debt, loans in foreign currencies to reduce the risk of the financial crisis. However, only these few examples suggest that budget rebalancing simply speeds up the way to the financial crisis in the Republic of Croatia and already huge over-indebtedness. That the government itself is intuitively aware that something is wrong with the functioning of the state and the creation of a legal and economic environment that would affect the well-being of citizens and economic growth testifys to the fact that this rebalancing of the HItroRez projected an increased edition of as much as 500%. How is it that the government didn't know four months ago that our laws and regulations were too complicated and that the HitroRez should be improved, but that it is bringing him back to life from the near state of euthanasia with this budget rebalancing. Why wasn't that planned four months ago? Most of the time, the fact is that this rebalancing is not planning new projects, but alimony of the costs that were also known in the spring when the budget was being prepared. And these few examples of huge fluctuations between the items planned into the budget that we adopted and the items proposed by this rebalancing suggest as I said of catastrophic or no planning or perhaps even indolence and lack of vision. This budget is not reformal and is not focused on economic growth, and unfortunately there is no more important social component. In Croatia, industrial production is falling, the black capital market is booming and services that are simply alimented by legal uncertainty, imports are growing, prices are getting wild, energy is becoming unreachable to an all-wide range of residents, it is gathering food, inflation is increasing so that it is now at the annual level of 6.4% with growth trends, wages are stagnating, debt is growing, living standards are dropping, and a gross social product that also has a bad structure. With this budget, the government intends to increase the government's debt, state spending and huge imbalances of payments to abroad. Despite the fact that the state collects unexpectedly high tax revenues based on imports of expensive energy and food and the sale of the rest of the state-owned companies as well as on the sale of private property to foreigners, the government does not know how to use the fiscal income for a radical turn in tax and development policy. Croatian citizens are in charge of the maximum and in Croatia, there is neither a good living nor a reform that would lead to the improvement of society as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12791	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12792	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, I'd like to correct the two allegations I've been able to record. Namely, first this thesis that the program and ideas show a huge political fluctuation of oscillation indices of 7 thousand etc. Namely, that's not true. The government's economic policy and policy won support in the last elections. This policy has its continuity, and this budget best speaks of this continuity because fiscal policy is precisely in the function of preserving macroeconomic stability and increasing employment. And the other thing you said, and it's not true, so the state acts like, or the government is a drunk rich guy. So, you're just being denied this budget where we've managed to get the deficit to 1.3%, so as a state, we're not encouraging consumption, but in this situation we're trying to minimise inflationary pressure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12793	Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12794	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. When the first news came from the government's session on Monday that the government had adopted a budget rebalance on what was in it, I must admit I had honestly moved in. In the news, the science and education sector received 334 million kunas, such as a surplus of tax revenues, and that this would be distributed among other things, and that in this not very harmless amount for education and science. I must admit that my happiness was short-lived until yesterday, i.e. this morning, until I detailedly analyzed that entire budget, i.e. the budget rebalance for the area of education and science, until I realized that in the five items that are increasing, amounting to a total of 380 million kuna, actually followed by more than a hundred of those substitious items that are relevant for the functioning of the system itself for significant reforms in the system, have not actually been reduced by more than 50 million kuna for significant improvements. I guess that's what the people would say, big traffic, small profits. It looks all very good, but ultimately for what's important, we didn't get anything for what's important. What does that look like? What funds have been increased? For the administration and administration, the Ministry of Science has increased funds by 13.4 million kuna, for the development of the ministry's information structure, funds have been increased by 8.6 million kuna, for teachers' salaries in primary schools, funds have been increased by 26.3 million kuna, for salaries in secondary schools 14.3, transportation of students 39 million kuna and free textbooks 160 million kuna. In addition, an additional note has been made by many colleagues so far. Three or four months ago, when we were making a state budget for 2008, we knew exactly or those in the ministry needed to know, how much it would cost to transport students, how much it would cost for textbooks, and how much it would take to pay them. Nothing has changed in the last three months, except that the government, or the ministry, admitted that they weren't planning well. Some of our colleagues, I personally wrote amendments to the budget on those items saying that the funds are not enough. We received assurances with the refusal of our amendments that it was planned and more than enough. Three months later, we got confirmation that the government wasn't actually planning well and that she was actually incompetent in a business that she was doing. What's interesting in this budget is that the growth of funds that no one has noticed so far, 52 million kuna for sport and it mainly for Olympic sport. We had a debate here some time ago about the Olympic Committee report where we agreed somewhere that we should reduce financial allocations for this professional sport, public budget, and that if there are extra funds we should go to recreational sport. We talk here, we adopt reports, we consensually agree, the government doesn't seem to hear us. For salaries at all universities, funds grow by 40 million kuna and what here may be the only thing that is new, which may well have not been known, and should have been known 3 years ago, and not 3 months ago, these 30 million kuna funds that have been increased to support the second stage of the Bologna process. At the expense of all the resources being reduced, and why I said that the budget resembles what, big traffic, small profits, interest subsidies for teachers' apartments are reduced by one million kuna, professional training and education of teachers minus 400 thousand kuna, in primary education, development of education systems minus 23 million kuna in total, precisely those 23 million kunas are capital investments in education, so what with school construction, which is with one shift, we have no idea of 23 million kunas reducing capital allocations. The production of national curricula is reduced by almost one million kuna, the project of basic education reform is reduced by one and a half million kuna. A million and 500 thousand kuna. Are those important items? They did. Should they be increased? You should. Are they increasing? No, I don't. What does the government suggest? Their reduction. In secondary school for almost 50%, funding is reduced for the creation of a network of programmes and for the creation of secondary schools, for the development of a decentralisation of education, for adult education projects as if we do not have almost 40% of the population who have only primary school or school base, the provision of professional services in the system of secondary education is the same for 50%, the development of a curricula model for secondary education 650 thousand kunas, the revision of the existing production of new programmes in the system of half a million kunas. It is now related to these records, where our children complain that they are enrolling programs that are more for non-existent occupations at all, but not our ministry for us half a million kunas less for the revision of teaching programs. Co-financing of lifelong learning programs, same half a million kunas. In higher education, interest rates for apartments for scientific recruits, assistants minus, capital investment and construction in higher education minus 11 entire 800 thousand kuna. Today, tomorrow you have protests from students, because a single student loan has not been built, except for a river that has been launched for two thousand years, and some years, has not been built, and we are being told by our government that knowledge is important to us and that is why we are reducing almost 12 million kuna funds for capital investment and high school construction. Direct capital investment in public institutes minus 3 million kuna, funds for the National University Library minus 1 million kuna, computer communication infrastructure in high schools minus 2 million kuna. Technology research activities minus 2 million kuna, development knowledge of small and medium-sized companies minus 1.1 million kuna, for bilateral and multilateral scientific and technical cooperation minus 2 million kuna. In the Agency for the Education of Adults Development of adult education minus million kuna, investing in deficit interests minus million kuna, the Agency for Professional Education, although it is the sector that needs the most reforms, the sector of vocational education minus 2.5 million kuna, the programmes of projects of scientific research activities minus 1.5 million kuna, the National Centre for External Action, this may be my favorite item has a total of 3 million kuna less, and the item called Preparations for State Graduation and national exams 1 million kuna less. So two months ago, the kids went out on the road because the state graduation project wasn't prepared and the ministry admitted it and delayed the graduation. What the government is proposing to us, 1 million kuna minus at the preparation point for the state's graduation. So the ideal situation can't be reduced, not when the government admits and knows it's not ideal. Agency for Education and Education, for the professional training of teachers and teachers minus 307,000 kuna, for the training of directors minus 236 thousand kuna. While at the same time next week we will get a new Education Act that provides for both licensing and teachers and directors and a different way of professional training and other obligations, but we are not reducing resources. All these important things that I said, they're not my interpretations, I was just reading directly to you the figures the government proposed to us in the budget. And those, when you look at those 334 million kuna increases for education in that light, then you see that actually in these important reform things these funds are less than 60 million kuna. I repeat, growing, I don't think wages are growing, but wages remain as they were under that agreement that they were, but since there weren't enough planned salaries, the transportation of students, free textbooks, everything else minus, minus, minus. And all I said was some of the important and larger items. One of our colleagues when we discussed it yesterday, said the ministry was working in a way that actually only financed and paid for the cold drive. This budget is a clear confirmation of this thesis. And to make things better, even that cold drive doesn't work. Because if the cold drive was working then children wouldn't have to protest to postpone their national graduation, students wouldn't protest for Bologna or today and tomorrow for accommodation in dorms. And let's not talk about what's hiding under the top of that big glacier. So I can't support this budget rebalance. He is not focused on Croatia becoming a country of knowledge. That's what I was talking about when, we were bringing the state budget to the knowledge society, the knowledge-based economies are more important than... money in cold drive that "by the way" in Croatia doesn't even work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And secondly, I intended to submit several amendments to the rebalancing of this budget, especially this item being substantially reduced, but the experience of learning with this government says that it absolutely all refuses either justifiable or unjustly. Of course, for them, all of our amendments are completely unwarranted although we see in the rebalancing that 90% of these things are later accepted because they are simply necessary because we opposition MPs, especially those who follow some areas, are still not as ignorant as we are trying to show up from the Ministry. And that's why my closing sentence. If we really want to become a knowledge society, if we really want to become a state of knowledge, then we should also be strategically committed to investing in education and not only to pile up, pile up, pile up, and then we don't see trees from that forest, but it's in the very structure of financial separation that we need to see a clear trend and a clear path where these resources are going and which are actually reforming and changing water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12795	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by Mr Nevio Šetić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12796	I thank Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, I must correct a quote by Mrs. Lugaric, who says big traffic is a small profit. We didn't get anything for what's important in education. Everything is minus, minus and minus. Well, this is the approach I have to correct, because at the very least we got 334 million kuna, which isn't exactly whether or not. And on the other hand, I want to say that we've been given over the last five years since the Croatian Democratic Community led the budget formation, we've got about seven and a half billion to 12 and a half billion. So that win should be added up. That's why I hold that on such a formalistic approach it's impossible to get a clear vision like the lady said.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12797	And Mrs. Representative... what are you telling me? What kind of signs are these now? ... Here you go. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12798	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's a thank you for giving me your word. And I will also correct the incorrect quote above all this big traffic, small profits, minus, minus, minus. But I'm also going to tell my colleague Lugaric that it's incorrect that funds have been seized on development items. They're redistributed. Because if it were taken away then they wouldn't be here and here they are because of the dynamics of the budget. I'll remind you that about 65 and a half million kuna have been provided for the school construction and equipment of school facilities here, and I don't have time for that, but look, there's a new item called the State Procurement Register, which costs three million kuna at the National Centre for External Valuation. So there are some newspapers.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12799	Replica Mr. Agent Iron Flego.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12800	It seems to me that my colleague Lugarić has seen a whole series of elements. After all, I agree with you in a lot of cases. What I don't agree with is that we haven't built a single student bed. In 1963, we reconstructed a home in Sharengrad and built 65 or 67 new beds so I would like to make it right. And as far as I'm concerned, you'll probably know how to explain to your colleagues and colleagues what they've done with their failures.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12801	In Charengrad 1963? 1963 in Charengrad [[Intruder: 2003.]] Well, I was in Charengrad in 1963. ... [[The intruders don't understand.]] I know, but I'm saying I was in Charengrad in a student dorm in 1963. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No, no. [[Intruder: If I said 1963 then]] You didn't say. I'll do it on the way. Reply to the replica of Mrs. Marija Lugaric. ... Yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12802	Dear colleague Flego, unfortunately these students and those homes who, in the end, turned out to be Vice President Shakespeare was not reconstructed until 1963. These many others who were built at that time or later have not yet been reconstructed. So that's why these students, among other things... Someone from HDZ who doesn't like what I'm saying. [[/Intruder: Who?]] So they're very... [[/Intruder: Don't do this right now. Don't judge it so easily.]] What? [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] I do not in any way accuse lightly, and I am glad that in fact the reactions that were in my statement have in some way confirmed the thesis that it is actually a big traffic and a small profit. [[Invader: Do not make it easy to accuse.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12803	Mr. Representative Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12804	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and Mr. Secretary. For the last 15 years, I have participated in the creation of a budget or through executive or legislative authority at various levels of local self-government and I hardly remember any of the sessions and that the opposition and those who rule agree on the draft adoption or budget rebalancing, and certainly this session today is also a confirmation and such a thesis. But definitely and indisputable is the fact that the global currents related to the situation are very much mentioned by energy and food indisputably and qualitatively and quantitatively determines the course of a large number of government budgets both in Europe and worldwide. We heard a lot of how quality and less quality statements and comments related to the current state of affairs, and even this last one concerning inflation, inflation in Europe, which is mentioned by individual colleagues that right now I am not apostrophe in one part is not true because yesterday's inflation information in Germany is 4%, and we mentioned 3 more recently, hours ago. It actually means that these trends in world energy are something that worries the whole world, so certainly this small country of ours and the troubled state is not exceptional. The very fact that within such a state and clearly, and we are aware that when we talk about the overall standard of life we are lagging behind Europe and making efforts to catch up with this Europe as soon and quality as possible then on this topic today and on this budget and rebalancing that is set up, we can express our satisfaction, because it reflects on the one hand the real state of Croatian economy, and on the other hand it creates everything that assumptions for further development. And that's the fact that the real sector of the economy is still growing, as is a large part of all the macroeconomic indicators that talk about it, and that I am not, in particular, repeating them because they are not necessary. Perhaps I will only look at one synergy of the action of different factors of the state budget that make up one common, and when it comes to what is one of our fundamental objectives, which is an increase in Croatia's GDP, i.e. on the basis of this and a greater overall quality of living and standards. The fact is that a large part of the measures of the Croatian state are currently aimed at increasing production, strengthening economic activity, and based on this and qualitative shifts in everyday life. The fact that the number of 30,000 people associated with a quality shift in employment is something that is a fact. It had to come to him in a certain way. With that happiness or misfortune that I work simultaneously in local self-government with a high dose of qualification, I can say that all those measures that are linked through the measures of this country contribute precisely to this further increase in employment. We had one topic two days ago related to free zones, but the fact that in our Croatian state is this moment is either made or are in various stages of production, and I believe somewhere around 3 hundred economic zones of different purposes, different qualification and ine structures of production, services, trade and the like. I dare say that just a large part of the local self-government that the Croatian government has been empowered by measures and decisions to start with a decision on land allocation, starts from co-financing of spatial and in-house projects, while at the same time putting space-plan regulation into new legal frameworks creating or creating the necessary preconditions today to bring the economy up to new feet, on a healthy path and on something that in the 21st century actually makes the whole approach. It is true that a large part of the Croatian economy, especially the textile, leather industry, from which I come as a working intensive industry in the modern, primarily European economy, does not have a qualitative shift towards new big-earned steps. Because we all know more or less what a labour intensive activity is, and therefore I welcome the measure right through the government measures that further encourage investment in these branches that are traditionally in a difficult situation and I believe that this measure will also find some qualitative shifts. I will say further, that in the context of both new technologies, new approaches, and I am more than sure that in the time ahead, the new business and economic zones will be the development generator that is in place to step into the employment of young people, as well as the possibilities of retraining. It is important to say, yes, and that is something that is important to all of us as an important task precisely to the system of education, education and retraining of existing personnel, and new knowledge that is suitable for 21st century technologies is a prerequisite for us to raise our economy and our economy to an even higher level and to make it more qualitative as possible to bring it to the level of Europe itself and developed European countries. When I talk about this part of support to the population, I can especially commend part of the measures that go towards subsidies to the very most socially endangered part of the Croatian population. I can say here that a large part of the local units, cities and municipalities are in the same way complementary to their measures and activities so that together as a Croatian state we show our sensitivity to the most vulnerable part of the Croatian population at all levels and levels of decision-making. Ladies and gentlemen, given that in a large part of the debate we have said what I believe to be important or what we have from the position of how the opposition or the ruling mended the situation of things I can only conclude that this draft budget, the change of budget for 2008 will be accepted and supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12805	Thank you. Mr. Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12806	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. So to discuss changes and additions to the budget on rebalancing is always a debate on the government's overall economic and social policy, and this is also the opportunity and obligation of each representative to present to citizens his assessment of trends in the economic and social state of the state and society, referring to government promises, citizens' expectations and real opportunities of society. The objective, the rational goal of each responsible policy, in particular economic policy, is a better standard of living for citizens, and for the assessment of this policy, longer periods and trends, rather than just statistical current data, need to be seen economically. Of course, we need to see where we come from and how we went through that history. To illustrate this, allow me to include in my debate a quote of a privatization globalised economic pattern that has spoken nothing less than Nobel Prizeor Edward Prescott, and I ask you and the citizens to try to identify through the association which state and what policy it is. He says: “The basis of such a pattern is to bribe politicians who leave telecommunications, national oil companies, energy plants, management of other vital infrastructures, and this is always the case in secret contracts. In parallel with this process, the capital market is opening up, which means that the most frequent and strongest sale of national banks is then forced to move to the price market, and politicians can charge it all through their accounts in foreign banks. The sale of national wealth leads to impoverishment of the population, and politicians often only promise. I don't know what that reminds me of, but I'm sure the citizens know what they're associated with, what state and what policy they're talking about. In the case of the budget itself, all day long and in the text of the reasoning of the budget rebalancing macroeconomic framework, the table only lists selective macroeconomic data that are positive for the government, and in this data there are no major indicators for cities. Life cost growth and drop in living standards, inflation growth up to 6% or 8%, economic uncertainty of citizens, external debt of the state, public debt of the state etc. Is this the perspective of Croatian citizens who give them the right to evaluate that the government is leading the country in a good direction? I don't think so. If these economic indicators that the Government has given us selectively add that the standard of living is in decline, it does not need to convince citizens, they know best and feel that social intolerance or the social threat of a large part of the citizens is not to be assured, but that the social insensitivity of the authorities also does not need to convince them. Many countries in Europe, with a better economic situation and lower social pressure, are setting up headquarters in their governments to protect their citizens' short and long-term standards. Whether it's about hitting that standard through the price of energy or food. We have an even more pronounced impact because we do not forget how many citizens of the Republic of Croatia live with an average pension, about 900 thousand live with an average pension that cannot cover a quarter of the basket union for a four-member family. The government doesn't say anything about external debt. I'm afraid it is, not to call a prophet, that silence on external debt does not lead us to a situation in 1999 when gross domestic product growth and not the possibility of borrowing on the international financial market will occur. If a smart man thinks, he doesn't care about the current situation but what is waiting for him, and in the sake of our government, not to worry about what is waiting for us, nor to show what the situation is right now, I repeat that the table from the macroeconomic framework is completely selective. She's hiding the real state of things. We don't have the right to hide from citizens that the trend of living standards falls every month more and more, that is union so-called. The basket is gathering without the government offering a perspective on how it will solve the problem. We still have import policy on stage. Import policies and consumer loans. We are directly working for the benefit of wealthy bank owners, not taking care that one day they will certainly come to collect such a policy while we still have something to sell. But it's a irrational economic policy. Finally, I would like to mention and warn once again that social measures are unsustainable and inefficient when it comes to energy collection, especially electricity. The measures are socially absolutely insensitive and incomplete. They are not affected by the real intention because they will not facilitate the social situation of those we call upon, and these are the poorest. In fact, these measures only suit single families... Or families of two members who usually work and eat in the cafeteria where they work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The government should also have to come up with long-term measures to protect living standards when it comes to particular energy, because there is no substitute or possibility of family or citizen alone. In other words, such a measure or such measures by the Government of the Republic of Croatia say that the government did not welcome what it knew had been coming for several years, the impact of energy prices and food prices in this context is indeed impossible to accept this budget rebalance whether it has increased by 2.5 billion kuna from VAT collection or a reduction in the grey economy or a rise in production. It does not affect the purpose of politics, which is to protect the standard of living of citizens and without such a policy, no government can count on support from citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12807	Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12808	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I estimate that the budget is an economic policy instrument and that, indeed, as one of the important instruments, it can have a huge impact on social movements in the Republic of Croatia. And of course the instrument would be properly used then it is important to know and to evaluate the macroeconomic framework or environment in quality. And kill when we observe it is part of us from the opposition, meaning SDP and the differences from the proposal and, I would say the assessment given by the Croatian Government and which is here before us. The important difference in this assessment of the macroeconomic framework is that the government thinks they're positive movements in the economy sector and that's an important assessment to know how you're going to use the instrument, and that's the budget. When I talk about the SDP, grading the six months it's been this year, we still can't agree with that grade. We believe that in this assessment it had to be stated that the unfavourable rate of economic growth was lower than it was last year or the decline of that rate of economic growth compared to the developments in the last few years. In particular, an important rate of economic growth is if inflation is this high in 6 months and we really have inflation that we expect at an annual level of 8%, fighting that inflation is very important, and we have a lower rate of economic growth than the past. Therefore, the assessment is not a good situation in the economy sector. It is also important to note that we have a double lower export of goods and services than we have imports, which means insufficient own production, unfortunately too much imports, and the worst assessment of inflation has a significant impact on food and energy, and we need to indicate the enormous imports of energy. Imports of food, according to where the strongest inflation strikes are, we have the largest imports. All that data we can't say is that we disagree. We all agree, but that is whether then a possible assessment of the economy sector is okay. It's not. And in that, as SDPs, we're trying to find a reason to say that the budget rebalance itself might have to look something different than we're talking about here. I won't even mention the problem of an enormous external debt here because it's not a characteristic, I'd say these six months, it's an inheritance from before, but it's evident that he has an impact on the assessment of the situation in the economy too. Also when we talk about economic growth, it is not only a problem of lower achievement but also of the past years, but also of the structure in which it says that the problem of existing growth is that it is too self-oriented and too little investment, too little development projects. And of course when we approach an analysis of the macroeconomic framework, this is why we have a government proposal of rebalancing in which the surplus that appears and assumes in relation to the original budget that by the end of the year will be about 2.5 billion on the one hand, based on VAT, on the other, on the basis of the growth of the contribution, that it is only redistributed to, I would say uncovered items based on the basic budget because the good part of the health care is, that is, the cancer wound that was not sufficiently covered by the budget proposal itself and the adoption of the budget. And since we as SDPs estimate that the economy sector is problematic, we felt that something should change significantly at budget savings in 6 months, and we should do everything to help the economy through a higher growth rate, to try to raise the economy through investments, to try to raise the rate of economic growth, to stop imports, to increase exports, and to slowly turn to the energy balance. And we don't see it in the budget, so we're assessing, I'm sorry, the budget rebalance, so we're assessing that it's not a quality way of looking at the state of the economy, so there's no quality solutions in this rebalancing proposal. Of course, there's a question left in the SDP from where? So that's why we're assessing some of the government's activities so far and the basic documents that haven't been good enough. Here I particularly highlight the Croatian export offensive where we had to get the data, and what it received as a government project, to try through exports, I would say reduce in some way imports and goods and food and energy, and on the other hand to try to reduce through this action programme the rebalancing between imports and exports of goods and services. We have no analysis, no effects, but it is evident that the deficits by trade are increasing and higher on the burden of the Croatian balance of payments. And, of course, again I want to point out, one of the shortcomings in early January, we had a government programme for the four-year term, the biggest lack of the government's programme was the energy view of Croatia for the next 4 years because simply according to this document the government was all dumped on imports of gas, oil, derivatives and electricity, all and so the transport routes were resolved to sort of remove the barriers to imports and it was the biggest disadvantage because we did not turn to our own energy sources, we did not turn to the possibility of creating, I would say the assumptions for investing in our own energy sources. And yet, worst of all, I would say the message Prime Minister Sanader sent, it was that somewhere in the fall we would finally get the energy policy of the Republic of Croatia, which, I would say, is too late when we evaluate such a difficult situation in the first 6 months we have in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, we also lack deep talks and analysis with the businessmen to listen to the businessmen and what should be done in these fiscal measures, in these policies to boost exports, to reduce imports so that the Croatian economy is competitive. And it is evident that we may have been able to make fun of the SDP in February of the proposal on how to reduce the contributions to the salary but we see that the businessmen are increasingly assessing that we are uncompetitive because of the high rate of contribution in the payoffs, so basically the work is caused by the incompetence of the Croatian economy. But here's too much of me being a man in the economy on a macroeconomic scale and what's the basic thing a citizen gets with this rebalancing? Let's ask ourselves that question. Do we even have an estimate of whether to raise real wages? We SDPs say no. We won't have it for the first time. In 2006, we had everything close to 1%. This is gonna be a record. We won't have that either. Inflation is so great that this budget rebalance does not ensure real wage growth. Are we gonna talk about pensions? It'll be hard to keep 40% of the average wage and probably won't provide even 50% of the costs I'd say for normal living. The problem of health care will continue to accumulate and despite these I would say the funds paid. So when we're talking about a citizen who's going to have to wonder what's bringing him a budget rebalance, I think he's got a situation worse than a businessman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12809	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect alleged Mr. Representative Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12810	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's what I'd like to correct is the inaccuracies of my colleague Linic, who says there's no increased investment in the economy. On the contrary. Entrepreneurship promotion programmes in 2008 allocate 48% more budgets compared to the previous year. If I didn't compare it to some earlier periods, we wouldn't be back in the past what a percentage would be. Special attention is also paid to the development of export-oriented companies. Significant funds are also allocated to entrepreneurship infrastructure. Further encouraging entrepreneurship zones. Connecting entrepreneurship and research activities to entrepreneurship-enhancing programmes, investment in 2008 compared to 2004 is two times higher. I think that says enough with an additional 138 million kuna invested in industry, textile, leather, shoe rebalancing from these increased funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12811	Thank you. We're moving on with an individual discussion. It is next to the honourable representative Marin Brkarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12812	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here's something I'm going to say about the very proposal for amending and supplementing the 2008 state budget for the reason it's visible that these changes result in revenue growth, a fact of two and a half billion kuna. The fact that this revenue growth is not related to economic growth but to price growth precisely because the billion and 300 million additional revenues in the budget are the result of value added tax but this is one of the reasons why the revenues are planned for two and a half billion. It would certainly be much better if it were the result of economic growth, exports and everything else that would be useful if it were happening but it is normal that we are under the influence of the global energy crisis. Here is also today the information that the price of the oil barrel is $146 on the world market and that this price will rise. Well, here's my proposal, given that the Minister of Finance said it would be good for the opposition to get proposals. But here's the proposal and it's been made. I think it would be good to think about reducing VAT on food, first of all, for the reason that this reduction of VAT on food can affect the reduction of basic food products, we can say union baskets. And on the other hand, it can stop the rise in prices that will normally rise under the influence of energy prices so that this is one of the measures that Prime Minister Sanader has taken as one of the measures that the government will consider in the current hour when such a question is asked. The second thing that I can support in this budget rebalancing is the direction of a billion and 400 million kuna towards health care for the recovery of health care, given that health care is, as we say, a financial collapse and this at least partial recovery of the health care system will certainly give us one space to come up with a solution with what we know from 1.4 in healthcare, which I also estimate is good because for the first time a good part of both general hospitals and clinical hospitals operate without creating losses and I personally hold that these limits are normal after this period to 1.8. should be reviewed, corrected. So I think the health care system along with reforms I would say both primary and secondary and tertiary healthcare can do a positive job. Normally, if we don't do these reforms, we'll face some new resolutions because we know that these resolutions have already been implemented several times. Reform isn't, and then there are such failures. And the third thing I would point out is six million kunas aimed at subsidising electricity prices. I personally believe that the proposed model of two thousand kilowatt hours is not socially fair. It is not fair, it probably does not need to be explained but one-member, one-member households will be saved under these criteria in relation to which it may not be necessary to call support or non-payment of a higher, higher price and four-member, five-member family or household will not be able to achieve it in view of the number of households in need of such a subsidy. And it's my suggestion and I suggest that these funds be directed towards municipalities and cities. The municipalities and cities already have their social programs. I'm not going to talk about them because the exact criteria for supporting them have been developed. They have a register of social security users, which was built together with social care centres, and I think that this way through municipalities and cities can mean local self-government in the most qualitative way and, most justly or justly, to those citizens who need such support and in the electricity subsidy. It can also be considered to amend the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government and to reroute part of income tax towards municipalities and cities with this very intention means directing towards social programmes which would allow the state to allow this part to intervene and these interventions may often not be socially just with those 2,000 kilowatt hours. And finally, what I would like to do in some way is argue that more equal regional allocations of funding from the budget are being made out of the state budget, because I am certainly saddened by this budget rebalancing that the modest budget-oriented funds are, in any case, reduced by the basic budget of the Istrian County. Three million were reduced for the House for mentally ill persons in Pula without an explanation. It reduced 7 million and 200000 kunas for the construction of project documentation in Pula and reduced a million kunas from 4 million kunas to the youngest university in the Republic of Croatia, means the University of Pula right for projects of student standard. It just seems to me that these are the bad messages of this rebalancing towards Istria. We'll try, maybe there are mistakes in making the budget. We will try to amend this, or return it to those financial sizes that were in the basic budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12813	Thank you. We have one replica, distinguished representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12814	A colleague mentioned social justice, and it is quite noticeable that this syntagma of social justice was mentioned today when we talked about this rebalancing. I completely agree that this way of subsidising around electricity is not socially fair. It'll turn out that we're still punishing multiple families, families with more children. I think there must be other criteria. They'll have to consume electricity. It was often mentioned in Dalmatia, winter in Dalmatia, heating with electricity. Don't associate the birth rate, the increase in the birth rate in Dalmatia by not having people warm up to be sarcastic. Indeed, try again in the government to think about whether this is how you bring multiple families, families with more children into one discriminatory position. And there's one more thing I don't get. There's a multi-purpose helicopter service programme here with a million kuna scheduled to be reduced by 500,000 kuna. Then the system of setting up a multi-purpose helicopter service is also reduced by 500,000 kuna, with an estimated million kuna. So for this program related to helicopter services and their multi-purpose purpose, it's shrinking by a million. I think it's hard to understand, it's really hard to understand as many things are difficult to understand here. Once again, I appeal to the promoter to consider first of all the social sensitivity in these proposals that have been found here because it may be true that in words we all advocate the demographic restoration of as many children as possible, and then those families come to the worst blows. The cart can't even cover 80% of the needs anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12815	Bring the end. Thank you very much. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Marin Brkarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12816	Very short. Here, I was talking about a social programme, or a new model, because the minister said these 600 million kunas will be reserved in the state budget on the distribution model or way we can normally talk or talk to the government, but certainly also parliamentary representatives. I absolutely believe that on the trail of social programs of municipalities and cities, in the city register that exists in every municipality and city that is made especially for people who need help going to the distribution of these funds, because it is then that those who are truly the most socially endangered and they will not feel this price attack to call it that, a electrocution, and this model may not be, not perhaps, but certainly not just. This is the second part I wasn't talking about, so I'm leaving it around the helicopter service. She's definitely needed.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12817	Thank you. We're going towards the end of an individual debate. And we still have the honourable representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12818	Sugar at the end. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here, I think Mr. Minister is here today all day long to thank him. First congratulations on that award he received in America and his associates, too, who certainly contributed that this award came in to say our Croatian hands. I'm sure when it comes to rebalancing, then it should be said that there is an economic expression, and I'm not an economist, so don't let people who are in the profession resent me. There's also a imbalance. However, when we talk about rebalancing then, in any case, as we see and from the attached, it is a redistribution to say one excess that came from the surplus tax first of all, and by the basis of inflation, particularly inflation, which is driven by the price of energy. To study everything that was redistributed to say or this book, to study these 315 pages was too little time for that. So during the day, two how these materials got into our hands or on the benches, so some things are hard to actually see. But I have to say that I have seen here that, also as observed by a colleague from IDS, there is a slightly uneven relationship between the regions, so as an example, I have to say an unbalanced relationship between the regions, and as examples, I have to say that, someone has already stated that an additional 100 million kuna has been invested in the road construction item on the islands, and in the Ministry of Regional Development we have one item where an increase of 277%, that is the PN Donja Neretva. In any case, it is good that in the 21st century, finally at the Ministry of Regional Development is concerned, there is also a concern in the budget for water supply, which is actually a civilization achievement and somewhere around Christ or later from the time of Christ, is it? But in any case, the drain and so on, along with the water supply that should go parallel. The most important part of this is to say the surplus that came from the way I said it was assigned to the Ministry of Health which is how we saw it in the budget discussions at the beginning of this year or a few months ago, which was thought to be missing funds to execute all the things our health care and social care services are concerned about today. I wouldn't want these funds that will be invested in health care not to bring some changes in health care so that it wouldn't be health care like shipbuilding to invest money all the time and, as it is said in shipbuilding restructuring and that it's actually a bottomless bag. I believe that in health care, there is a need for root reform, a root reform that will definitely regulate all relations and what it looks like in other Western European countries and in civilised countries in the European Union. When it comes to social tensions and population problems, then we must not forget that this inflation that is now po, officially around 7%, is going to boost interest growth. You know that here in the paper is also written that with the debt of the state that there are also debts of legal and physical persons, borrowings from commercial banks. For example, the city of Zagreb owes €1 billion. We were about seven billion kunas. The city of Rijeka is 100 million Euros not to talk any further about our cities. What happens if commercial banks increase the interest rate based on a contract that per so-called. fluctuating interest, about the interest rate related to the Swiss franc or EURO? Will our people be able to return these interest to a different amount than ever when the contracts were forged? In addition to all this increase, the increase in electricity prices is going and that these days it has been announced that Croatia actually, that Croatia has exhausted to say the electricity it received through the contract with Bosnia and Herzegovina. So the contract that was with Bosnia and Herzegovina expires in June ended at the end of June of this year. And based on the invested, invested capital in the construction of thermal and other plants in Tuzla and so on. Isn't that relevant, isn't that fact about the increase in electricity prices in Croatia? I'm not going to go into how, not not to go in, I'm certainly interested in helping the poorest to overcome that blow to their standard when there's an increase in the price of electricity. Is this the time the minister said he had data from HEP that 47% of citizens meet those two and a half thousand kilowatts or is the way some... The units of local administrations and self-government have more precise information on who needs to be helped in this regard is difficult to assess now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But in any case, we need to discuss it, so maybe we should see what's the better model? As my colleague here said, my regionalist and we will most likely submit certain amendments to some of the things that we have in Slavonia and Baranja, and here you see I have read this so-called For example, the funds provided for by the county road administrations remain on the 240 million kuna. So regardless of the increase in energy prices and everything else, so 240 million kuna is intended for "the bile" let me put it this way, the county road administration. And he swears no more. Not a single word of it, though. And I wonder if that's enough given the role of county road management in our midst? In any case, when we talk about price, prices and inflation, then we talk about that in the Republic of Croatia inflation reaches some close to 7% and say food 10.2%, however, if we asked our housewives who go to the spectrum, I am convinced that they would say that it is far more than this, although the figures and statistics are inexorable but they are inexcusable. In any event, if we were to come slowly to this proposal or to the fact or to think about that VAT on food might thus be reduced in order to actually do so, in this segment which is most needed and most sensitive in some way to mitigate the social status of the Republic of Croatia. Here's what we're going to do. We're going to write some more amendments, and we're going to keep doing that. in connection with the implementation of the budget and the amendments and additions to the State budget for 2008 and we will think a little more. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12819	Thank you. We have one replica. Honorable representative of Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12820	Mr. Vice President, well, I heard in your statement that you are concerned about the even or evener development of all parts of Croatia. Well, here I assure you you don't, don't worry. We've got time. Since the revenues of the state budget that we are rebalanced are increased as explained in the reason that VAT revenues are now not being cut down by the end of the first 5 months of this year and as this government expects, in the movement of tourism consumption, personal consumption and inflation by the end of the year, too, and we are not going to clearly reduce inflation, and we are not going to increase or reduce the price of food, and we are not going to, and this is obviously this rebalancing because such measures do not have to reduce the imports of energy in the budget. So, even by the end of the year, despite the belief that this time the ministry projected well and projected how much of that revenue would be, I'm sure at the end of the year, we'll have rebalancing once more, and then here we might come from the local neighborhoods with our ideas somewhere to the government, and then we'll share that money not in consumption, but in the development of regional landscapes.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12821	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12822	Mr. President, dear colleague. This isn't really a replica, but I just think that you were aphidically talking about what I was saying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12823	That's what ended the discussion. Does a government official want to take a word for it? Yeah. Dear Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12824	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Let me first of all thank you for the debate, and if I may humbly conclude what we have discussed here today. There have been many proposals to increase the expenditure side of the budget. It was from many discussions. There have been suggestions, and of course we're thinking about taking care of the economy. However, the worst message that could be sent to both the local public and the global financial public at the moment would be to increase consumption, i.e. increase in deficits. As many say, the growth of interest is the next danger that can hit us in the fall, and then you can imagine under what conditions the state could be in charge of financing that deficit, and ultimately these interest bonds are again paid by taxpayers. It is again a burden for citizens and Croatian economies, because at this point we are paying 5 billion kuna per year, which is the cost of the deficits from previous years. And believe me, no matter how many of the members of Parliament's attorneys, it was also the debate that ended up being among our fellow ministers. Normally, each minister wanted to do something more in his ministry and believe that there is no better thing for the finance minister than when he is in a position to base good macro-economic indicators and good budget filling can suggest a tax reduction. I guess that's the nicest thing that can happen to the Minister of Finance that he has an orderly budget and that he can suggest discharging the budget. So believe me, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, this is something that's real right now can be done. For four years now, I have been saying from this pay phone that the contributions are the most burdensome of the economy, which is the most burdensome of the labour price and which reduces the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. At the same time, however, we also discussed health problems here today, and these health problems will either be financed from the contribution or we will finance from some tax revenues or we will have to increase the deficit. There's no third option. At this point, the pension contribution does not cover nearly the cost of pensions. So we can't talk about an increase in pensions, and we can talk at the same time about a reduction in pensions. We need to make it up again from somewhere. However, a realistic question is now being asked, Can this be done at this time? At this point, if raising the deficit by 1%, 0.5% of what I'm saying would be such an aproximately good message. Would the increase in consumption at this time be a good message to both the Croatian public and the economy and the financial world would certainly not be good. We agreed two years ago on a salary policy with both state and civil servants' unions and public services where we defined an increase in the annual base 6%. So I know that given the situation, it's not enough. But I repeat, bad messages can cost us far more, can far-reachingly list the severe consequences of Croatia and the Croatian economy than we might think at this point. But I repeat, when you exempt interest from the expenditure side of the state budget and put only the deficit of the central state, then you will see that at the moment Croatian economy and Croatian citizens are fully financing the costs of Croatia's state by paying their taxes. But these 5 billion interest rates, which are the borrowing costs of the previous years, simply eat that excess income and you can imagine that no such firm fiscal policy has been conducted what these costs would be today. I don't want to talk about who had the deficit at all. Everyone, at the moment he was in power, thought the most economical way he could and the expenditures and revenues planned according to existing opportunities. I sincerely hope that this crisis will be a little and excruciating and that although many financial experts unfortunately predict that it will take a long time. But that the conditions for the 2009 budget will be at least something better than they are now. Thank you again for your constructive discussion. One part of your proposals and remarks will certainly be considered when making fiscal projections in the next three years, and fiscal projections are also the basis for budgeting for next year, as well as projections for two years, and as you have seen yourself, and we will discuss this when we discuss the Budget Law, what the budget should look like in the future, and you will see that we have gone a step forward and then we will be able to discuss some other parameters of how the Government and individual ministries and users of the state budget. Thank you again very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12825	Thank you. I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12826	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we move on to - Proposal for an amendment to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008 as well as to the following decisions: Decision on granting consent to the amendments and additions to the financial plan of the Croatian Waters for 2008, Decision on granting consent to the amendments and additions to the 2008 Financial Plan of the Croatian Roads, Decisions on granting consent to the amendments and additions to the State Agency's financial plan for ensuring harmful roles and resolution of banks for 2008, Decision on granting consent to the amendments and addition of the 2008 Financial Plan of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund for the year 2008. The debate is closed. The review of the amendment is divided into benches. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to show up on the amendments. Minister of Finance, Mr. Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12827	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12828	Here we go, 1st Amendment of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12829	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12830	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 2, Mršić's representative on Article 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12831	The government doesn't accept for two reasons. One thing is that we believe that the proposed funds are sufficient, and another thing is that if the amendment of Mršić's representative is accepted, this amendment means automatically shutting down the security intelligence agency because virtually the proposed amendment abolishs the full funds. And that amendment for one reason, therefore, is sufficient, and on the other hand, we find it unreasonable as regards SOA and the Government cannot accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12832	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12833	So I would like to conclude that there is no kuna on the increase in the budget of 2 and a half billion kuna to increase funds for local self-government and decentralised functions of local self-government. Turns out the gas is rising, the price of gasoline is rising in the state, but local self-government and schools, for example, are not growing. Either the price of electricity or the price of electricity will rise to the state and citizens, but schools, hospitals, homes of pensioners did not increase that price of electricity. So obviously, in the final calculation of the budget, my amendments are always accepted, so always the execution is about as much as I asked, but I think it's good to find out that out of 2 and a half billion kuna in the state budget there's no longer a kuna for local self-government. I'm giving up the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12834	Thank you. This amendment has been withdrawn. Mr. Representative Andrew Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12835	Mr. President, on behalf of the club, I suggest a hand-to-hand vote on amendments for speed.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12836	Thank you. We're going to the 3rd Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12837	The government does not accept for reasons why it considers that the funds are foreseen in the state budget planned under the law. And secondly, this amendment does not accept at all that income tax revenues in the first six months recorded annual growth of 21, despite the fact that the majority of income tax returns were made in the 5th and 6th months, so that income from income tax base in the second part of the year would be far more significant. And we therefore believe that the funds provided are sufficient and that we do not accept this amendment for that reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12838	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12839	I don't know what it took for Mr. Minister to now mention income tax revenues when he too knows very well that the County of Istria on profit tax lost 27 million kuna, and this is an amendment concerning the arrangement of the municipal building in the Municipality of Lannister. Now, how much income tax has contributed to their budget revenues in the middle of not more than 400 inhabitants, so maybe there's a working relationship of about 150 or 200 people, another time, but even if it's a 21% increase, it's only a few thousand kunas. The municipality of Lanisce is the largest municipality on the territory of Istria, I would say it numbers only 400 people, the age limit is almost 60 years. It's a municipality without some major industry, regardless of all those who want to work and work. It's a municipality that passed one terrible Calvary during World War II, which after World War II was one of the reasons why the number of 3 thousand and 500 inhabitants would not be halved, but would be reduced to only 400 people living up there at the moment. And if we are not ready to help this municipality in the county of Istria or the state of Croatia, then in a year or two or three, we will simply record a further decline in the population, and this will raise the question and the existence of citizens in that area. With all this in mind, having in mind the ministry's desire to help these environments, and just now we've discussed areas of special state concern, and the Lanisce municipality is exactly that, the area of special state care, I think the MPs will accept this amendment and give us support for one and the municipality that is certainly one of the poorest in the Republic of Croatia by budget capacity. We are looking for 500 thousand kuna for the construction of the municipal building in the Municipality of Lanisce and I ask the representatives to vote in favour of this amendment and give us support.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12840	Thank you. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 4th Amendment of Ms. Maria Lugaric? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12841	The government doesn't accept for two reasons. One is that the funds provided in the position of the International Chair-RH Agreements are secured in the exact amount provided for by this agreement, and the other which is not suggested from which items would remove this rather than be proportional. Since you have a lot of items with different budget users, servants, promotions, information, that you can't, according to some free intentions, take off any money, you have to suggest.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12842	Thank you. Mrs. Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12843	Dear Mr. Minister, if the exact funds were planned, they were planned somewhere at last year's funding level. Since it is possible, in the last year's budget, that 35% of the funds, therefore of 305 million kuna, will be transferred from the budget stock to the Roman Catholic Church. In order not to make it possible for the Government to re-election and in the technical mandate, in fact, in the closed cabinet sessions untransparently allocate the funds that are in accordance with Article 45. The budget law intended to finance expenditure in the elimination of the consequences of natural disasters, epidemics, ecological accidents or extraordinary events that could endanger the environment and other unpredictable accidents, and the church is not an elemental accident, I think we can agree there, I only ask that the funds increase to the level of those spent last year. No more, no less, because international contracts need to be respected and I think that, as with all other items in the budget, so should this one have the means planned in accordance with, if nothing else is necessary for the implementation and for the extent that it has been spent in the last financial year. On the contrary, if you do not accept it again, the Government will grant funds to the closed cabinets non-transparently and contrary to the Budget Act. Thank you very much. And please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12844	Thank you. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. On behalf of the Ministry of Culture, State Secretary Mr. Šikic. 5th Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12845	The amendment is not accepted. The Ministry of Culture, in accordance with the Law on the financing of public needs in culture, calls for funding of the programme. The implemented programmes shall be valued by the Council for certain activities in accordance with the Law on Cultural Councils. The aforementioned programme for the reconstruction of the old town's core in Gračišje was not reported on the registered call, so the Ministry of Culture could not even evaluate it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12846	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS, Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12847	Perhaps no strategy has been reported simply on a new one, so let's call it that, the budget, so I don't see why such a representation initiative that you can consider not to be accepted. It's a little bit closer to my dialect and everything. Gračisje is a town that has not neglected the county of Istria, I claim neither the Republic of Croatia, but no matter what, one small town of exceptional beauty, culture, mountainous area and I think such an investment would help the attractiveness of the environment. So many MPs understandably ask to support this amendment by voting for the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12848	Thank you. Who is for this amendment... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He didn't get the necessary majority. 6th Amendment of the same club IDS.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12849	The amendment is not accepted. That programme was registered on the call and the ministry provided 250 thousand kuna for the restoration of the church of St. Strewn in the Lobster.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12850	Thank you. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12851	I am pleased that the ministry has provided certain resources, understandably they are insignificant. We wanted to believe that you would help with more significant financial capacities, but here we thank you for those 250 thousand kunas. We are withdrawing the amendment, but we would like to take your word for it, that you will continue to follow the project neatly.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12852	Thank you. The amendment has been withdrawn. Seventh Amendment of the same club IDS.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12853	The amendment is not accepted. The programme was reported to be called and the ministry provided 800 thousand kuna in accordance with financial opportunities for the rehabilitation of Motovljin Walls.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12854	Mr. Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12855	Nothing. I'm glad there's progress in that direction, that these walls are being rescheduled. To talk about Motovun, Dubrovnik one central Istria or 'let's say continental Croatia is not necessary. 800 thousand kunas are insignificant means, they come in handy. Here's my thanks for them. In that sense, we withdraw the amendment. But we want to believe that together with the county and the municipality in the hill-mountan area and the county, we will simply continue to resuscitate what may be the most recognizable part of Motovun.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12856	Thank you. Is the amendment withdrawn? Thank you. [[/Intruder: Yes, it is.]] The amendment has been withdrawn. Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. State Secretary Milivom Mikulic on behalf of the ministry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12857	I thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12858	8th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDS.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12859	So the amendment is not accepted. On the grounds that the sub-project in question is not nominated by the unit of local self-government for the implementation of this project. Namely, according to the programme of integrated development of the local community.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12860	Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12861	I don't agree that a detour around Novigrad is something that is, it's dominant in the interest of a local environment, but it has to be the only business of the local environment, and when it comes to Istria and financing by the local environment, it's exactly the opposite of what I'm saying is that right now I should think about going into the construction of that bypass, which is more about building a road from Novigrad towards Pontaforton and worse towards Buzet. The funds we propose actually from 15 million kuna on the budget of the Croatian Roads or on the capacity of the Croatian budget are not such that they can be met and in so much I ask the representatives to support this project with their vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12862	Thank you. I am voting on this amendment. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Nine. A representative club, also an IDS.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12863	The amendment is not accepted. In addition to explaining that for the programme of integrated development, the city of Buzet has nominated three sub-projects, including the reconstruction of the city's 3 million-dollar municipal infrastructure. Further implementation of the programme by the end of 2010 as planned to complete this programme, the project implementation unit with the representatives of the city of Buzet will analyse the nominated requirements and consider the possibility of inclusion, as well as the time of implementation of the sub-project.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12864	Thank you. Mr. Agent Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12865	Yeah. Now we've heard from the secretary of state that they're going to consider an initiative like this when, say, local self-government hasn't nominated something, then it's clearly not accepted. Those amendments are denied. In this particular case, the city of Buzet has nominated these projects, but is not accepted. I'd dare say never since the '90s the city of Buzet from the state budget has won. We haven't won a single kuna. Channeling in the old city of Buzet is being added or relied on one of the Roman times, or Venetian times, time for a thorough reconstruction. In the last 15 years, only one sewer ring has been dug around Buzet, and now it should normally connect to this network inside that old town. I want to believe that when the ministry has no ear for this initiative and I repeat that since the 1990s the city of Buzet from the state budget has not received a single kuna, then I want to believe that by its vote, the representatives will support this colossal need of the citizens of noodles.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12866	Thank you. I am putting this amendment to a vote that the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 10th of the same club IDS.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12867	The amendment is not accepted because the State budget from the requested position does not finance the construction of a secondary water network.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12868	Thank you. On behalf of the club, Mr. Cain. Here you go. Mr. Brkaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12869	Here, I'd just like to say a few words. The fact is that in the Ministry of Regional Development there are almost all regional water pipelines in the Republic of Croatia, meaning regional water pipelines in the counties and the fact is that the waterway, meaning the regional water pipeline in Istria County, is not treated the same way. This area means the construction of a water line or a main pipeline network in the Holy Marine area, so according to Ravni, it is certainly a highway, not a secondary but a highway pipeline, and we think that I would say under the same conditions should be co-financed because it is not a whole area. So we're only looking for co-financing of the water network or the construction of the Master's Waterway from St. Marine to Ravna with the support of the Raša and Istrian County municipalities. I suggest we vote on the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12870	Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 11, same club IDS.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12871	So the point is the same. The amendment is not accepted with the explanation that an idea project has been built for Plomin 2 water storage and a local authorisation procedure is under way. The project will be considered for co-financing after the construction permit is completed.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12872	Mr. Representative Marin Brkarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12873	Here, I thank you. Of course, it is necessary, it is the municipality of Kršan and we will be glad to include the Ministry together with Croatian Waters in this project. The fact is that in the process of leaving the local permit and we believe that in this part of the year, the construction permit will be established and we also believe that the ministry will co-finance this project together with the Croatian waters, since the municipality itself has financed a 26 million kuna water line project, means much more than the possibilities of the municipality and the construction of the Plomin water supply and also the Kršan waterway, in a way that would help the municipality of Kršan, which has no fiscal capacity to finance the indicated investment on its own. Here, I am withdrawing the amendment given your words that you will help.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12874	Thank you. This amendment has been withdrawn. Thank you very much, Secretary of State. On behalf of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure Secretary of State Željko Tufekčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12875	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12876	12, IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12877	The amendment is not accepted. In fact, the railway infrastructure is being built, maintained and updated by the National Programme of Railway Infrastructure adopted by the Croatian Parliament and the funds for the implementation of this programme are planned in the 2008 budget for four positions. As part of this national programme, funds are planned for the preparation and construction of a tunnel to connect the Istria railway network to the rest of the railway network in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12878	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS club, Mr. Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12879	With this amendment, we are clearly asking for this project documentation to be drawn up for the train tunnel Istria-Cicaria or Istria-Učka, whatever we will call it with the lines of Lupoglav there towards the Matulas and therefore we suggest that this year we secure an amount of 20 million kuna. Simply, the construction of the tunnel would allow Istriani railways to integrate with Croatia, they would create a prerequisite for the shortest time period and, if we provide these funds, to build this communication which is of great importance for the County of Istria but I argue far greater for the Croatian railways, because through that tunnel they could fully integrate into Europe and I hold that a good part of the burden from Barcelona and across the south of France, northern Italy could be transported further to the Central European or Eastern countries of Europe. If there is money in the state budget for building one bridge over Peljesac then my dear gentlemen should also be money for building Učka or Cicaria railway tunnel. In 1993, late Croatian President Franjo Tudjman laid the foundation stone. In the meantime, everyone forgot where it was at all, which is where nobody knew. But what we all do very well with that stone foundation but also what we all know very well that since 1993, the railway link between Istria and the Primorje-Gorski County and the Croatian Railways has done nothing. We are the only space in the Republic of Croatia that de facto bypasses the railway transport with Croatia via Slovenia. This is an unsustainable situation, and if you want to help the most dynamic Croatian economy, then construction of this railway infrastructure is necessary and should have started yesterday and I don't know any imaginary ones in 2010, 2011 or 2015.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12880	Thank you. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 13th Amendment of Representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12881	The amendment is not accepted. As in the previous amendment, the problem of resolving rail-road crossings has been addressed as part of the National Railway Infrastructure Programme with planned 315 million kuna for a period of 5 years. Equally certain funds for the same purposes are planned in the financial plans of the Croatian Roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12882	Thank you. Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12883	So I asked 20 million kunas to denivalize the railway-road crossing on the D-22 St. John's Frog – Cross. So it's a state road where a number of Chrysians have to stand at the ramp 40 times each day to overcome that obstacle. This is my eighth amendment, or eight times I write the same amendment, and eight times I get a similar explanation. So I'd really beg to finally say when it'll be? Will it be 2013 or sooner? I must say that the memories of the election campaign are very fresh and your party colleagues have promised to start building this spring. Spring's over. We set foot in the summer, and you don't promise them even the end of the year. You promise them only in 2013. I'm withdrawing this amendment but once again, I'm warning you that for the fifth year you promise the same thing and that you promise them it'll be over in five years.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12884	Thank you. This amendment has been withdrawn. 14th Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12885	The amendment is not accepted. In accordance with the Law on the Seaports and the maritime good classification of the port of Rabac as a port of county importance and financing should primarily be secured from the county budget or from the state could only be provided for part of the co-financing for that investment. The same is how the Rabac port administration was shown to the ministry in its 2008 priorities, and priority was given to construction, construction of the port, coastal wall in the port of Bristova and for which the Ministry provided funds and works on the investment in question are completed.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12886	Thank you. On behalf of the Club, Mr. Representative Marin Brkarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12887	Here's a very short one. The fact is that the county and the city of Labin together funded the construction of a coastal wall, or itself, to say the beginnings or roots of the harbor. They've invested significant funds and the fact is that we want to continue this investment and we're certainly looking for a Ministry's subport. I would also point out that it is the only port although the port of county importance on the eastern coast of Istria, which is unprotected. Unprotected normally from waves means safety is that for both domestic animals and foreign vessels using that port. So here I pray that the Ministry gives a single subport means in co-financing of the joint construction of the harbor and withdraws the amendment in the belief that the Ministry will accept what is said and accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12888	Thank you. This amendment has been withdrawn. The 15th Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12889	The amendment is not accepted. As in the previous amendment, Pula is a port of county importance and should be financed from the county budget, however, the ministry has demonstrated its readiness to participate in its financing, but subject to the development of a tripartite agreement in which the Ministry of Finance would be involved by the Istrian County and the city of Pula and the holder of the project in question would be the competent port administration of Pula.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12890	Thank you. Mr. Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12891	What do you say? City, I don't support this argument for sure. The city of Pula is an extremely important industrial city in the Republic of Croatia. You all experience Istria as a tourist destination but the first economic branch in Istria is exclusively industry. Ours, only the export of the city of Pula is larger than the total exports, say the Primorje-Goran County. You're leaving us without a railroad, without a bow, without a sanitized bow. Now it's said that the harbor is of county importance. Okay. And so we can treat these relationships. But when the Australian-Hungarian monarchy built this harbor in 1870, it was the most significant, the biggest investment at the time of their budget. And now that a county of Istria that has a budget of 230 million kuna, and through tax, through profit tax rates that is now centralized, you have reduced our revenues by 27 million kunas can enter the sunbathing of one so for Pula, for Istria, for Croatia's significant project. There is simply no city of Pula or County of Istria of that financial capacity that can realise that content. One word you can't, gentlemen of Istria, just take and don't return anything. I think someone, that someone would have to understand that simply those spaces of which we all have a clear history, and we who live downstairs, and those who collect revenues into the state budget can't develop with autonomous means alone. We could if this relationship between the state and local self-government were 86% in favour of local self-government, 14% of the state, but today the situation is reversed. And she became intolerable. I ask you to include this very important project for Istria, for Croatia and to help both the mayor and the people in the County of Istria. And please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12892	Thank you. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 16th Amendment of Representative Zvonimir Mršić?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12893	The amendment is not accepted for the reasons why the national railway infrastructure programme for 2008-2012 created certain assumptions for the development of public rail infrastructure for the introduction and efficient development of intermodal transport as no doubt an optimal mode of transport of goods. The same railway infrastructure programme provides for initial means to encourage further development of combined transport. The construction of concrete logistics parts of that system such as terminals, industrial colossals and so on, which are not public railway infrastructures, should be subject to a specific programme based on which a complete system of such logistics centres and locations in the country will be established and a way of financing their construction based on the general policy of further development of the economy and the transport of goods in the country and its environment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12894	Thank you. Mr. Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12895	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12896	The amendment has been withdrawn. We're going to the 16th Amendment of the same representative, Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12897	The amendment is not accepted. The construction of the implementation documentation is under way for the rehabilitation of the Botov laundromat and the implementation of the project is planned by means intended to implement the national railway infrastructure programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12898	Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12899	So this is mine, eight times the same amendment, and eight times you're telling me the same thing, right? So you didn't tell me today when the car wash in Botov would start? There were a few of my parliamentary questions. It was always gonna be that year. That year's over. Today we still don't have any project documentation. I'd like to know when the repair of the Botov car wash will begin and the guarantee is that we have a budget item as well. Obviously there's no budget item, so it won't be this year, then give it clearly and tell the citizens. So neither this year will the cargo car wash in Botov be rescheduled. I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12900	Thank you. The amendment pulls her back. The 18th amendment of the same representative, Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12901	The amendment shall not be accepted for the reasons for its management, including the construction and reconstruction of the State Roads concerned, shall be competent under Article 54. Law on public roads of the Croatian road. For the specified road design is ongoing and will likely be included in the next four-year plan of Croatian roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12902	Thank you. Mr. Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12903	Now I don't understand anything. So, Deputy Prime Minister said that the fast road Gradec – Križevci – Koprivnica – Gola will start building this spring. You are now claiming that the design is ongoing and that it may likely be involved in the next period. I would ask you to agree within the Government whether or not they will, whenever they want and how they will, and I ask that we make this amendment known by voting, because I demand that the budgetary item be finally secured, not that we face only promises every year. We're no longer on the state road from Vrbovac to Koprivnica on the road, but on the plowing. It is no longer worthy to be called a state road at all, especially for this traffic intensity currently taking place on that road. And your explanation that it may not be included until the next four-year period. I don't think it's a satisfactory answer, and it's particularly out of line with what we're still talking about with HDZ meetings, which is that we just need to go to the construction site and look at where the badgers are. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12904	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 19th Amendment of the same representative, Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12905	The amendment is not accepted. The explanation is the same as in the previous amendment. So it is required in the jurisdiction of the Croatian Roads and will be discussed in the next four-year programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12906	Thank you. Mr. Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12907	I would like to remind you that a cabinet meeting was held on 20 June 2006 and that at that session, the government concluded that a cost-effectiveness study of building a sub-level highway in the profile of a fast road outside the settlement corridor would be carried out. Therefore, your explanation is not in line with the government's conclusion at a session in Koprivnica. The study should have been completed long ago and should have provided a budget item for the construction of a sub-level highway long ago. The Podravska highway is currently a road of death in Croatia and I think that people living along the Drava River from Varazdin to Osijek and teaching to Vukovar and Ilok deserve to have a fast road outside the settlement corridor, not only have some or two cities, which is either 3 towns of Varazdin, Virovitica and Osijek. So I ask you, when you consider amendments, to look at what the Government has adopted before, and it has concluded that this must be included in the budget, so I ask that this amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12908	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 20th amendment of the same representative, Zvonimir Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12909	The amendment is not accepted. The explanation is the same as in the previous two amendments. So it is in the jurisdiction of the Croatian Roads and will be discussed in the next four-year programme of Croatian Roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12910	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić. This amendment has been withdrawn. 21st Amendment, but please now Mr. Željir Janjic, State Secretary. Thank you very much. The 21st Amendment of MPs also Zvonimir Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12911	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. The amendment of 21st Zvonimir Mršić is not accepted because the amount at the position of the activity 578004 education and education of children with developmental difficulties is sufficient to finance planned programmes and activities for 2008. In addition, where you propose a reduction you cannot accept a reduction in funding from this activity, which is to encourage the public needs of the Croatian Olympic Committee sport programme, because investment in preparation for the Olympics is necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12912	Thank you. Mr. Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12913	So, I have asked the amendment to set aside two and a half billion kunas as much as the increase in the state budget of only 2 million kunas for the education of children with developmental difficulties. It is certain that 8 million kunas will not be enough because it was not enough last year, and it is obvious that all these great gatherings that have already taken place and which will take place in the future will not apply to education. It is likely the government's decision that schools don't pay more electricity prices, more prices of other energy, no food, nothing will collect them. I am sorry, therefore, that 2 and a half billion kuna could not be found for children with developmental difficulties. I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12914	Thank you. This amendment has been withdrawn. 22nd Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12915	The 22nd Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club is not accepted for the reason that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has already provided a million kunas from the current budget reserve for 2008 for the cost of designing the new building of that school. At a time when the town of Pula, which is the founder of this school, will have a building permit for the school of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, will consider possible co-financing of this facility.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12916	Thank you. IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12917	Mr. Secretary of State, I don't know if you noticed what you said you were going to consider financing that facility, not that you would finance that facility. Well, you don't think one of the foundations of a burned-out school can be built with a million kunas. So now they are, let's get some initial funds to get to the project. These days, the project documentation will be completed, but it is necessary to proceed as soon as possible to the realization of this primary school, which burned to the ground on 26 February 2008. It is a school called Veli vrh in Pula, attended by over 4 hundred students in 16 classrooms. The school was built in the early 1980s, and it was as if it was built out of cardboard and normally when there was a fire it was completely burned. I really ask you, not to consider whether you will help this school, but to, but now again, how when we do not have budget rebalance and if these funds are not provided in the rebalancing process means that they are immediately entered into co-financing with the city and with the County of Istria. If we go into the realization of this project content... The necessary city of Pula in the second half of this year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So all the burden falls on the city of Pula, in the County of Istria, and the question is, what is the relationship between the central government and the County of Istria, whether the construction of that school will also be represented by the budget for 2009. So much, I really ask all MPs from the ranks of the majority and the opposition, mostly I ask representatives from Istria to support the construction of a primary school in Veli Vrh in Pusla. We're looking for 30 million kunas, it's about 50% of the necessary funds, but it's a minimum that the state should monitor one of these content. What are you yelling at? Huh?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12918	Thank you. Thank you very much. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. 23rd Amendment of Mr. Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12919	The 23rd Amendment of the Representatives of Zvonimir Mršić The Government does not accept the obligation to finance, build school sports halls in the area of Koprivnica and Križevci County as well as in other premises, following the amendment and addition of the Law on Primary and Secondary Schools from 2001 to the county budget and the budget of the town of Koprivnica as the founder of primary schools. Otherwise, insufficient funds for these purposes which, up to the level of the minimum financial standard established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia after the adoption of the budget, cannot be provided by local administration and self-government shall be provided by the Republic of Croatia through support and assistance from the State budget, i.e. It's a balancing fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12920	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12921	So this is partly exactly what you say, however, the Government of the Republic of Croatia in some cities directly finance the construction of some halls. In addition to public private partnership halls, at least two halls are financed directly from the state budget, it is a hall in Zadar and halls in Osijek. Therefore, I do not see any reason if at least two cities in Croatia can be built halls, directly, against the law as you claim, why can't 10 million kuna be provided to help build several halls in the area of Koprivnica-križevci County, is part of them in construction, as is, for example, a hall in Novigrad that cannot be completed because it has insufficient funds and the Ministry does not want to help as you have said because it has not executed this transfer. So obviously we're not all equal and equal in Croatia, we're building halls somewhere and there's not even 10 million to build more halls. And I'm gonna give up this amendment because it's no use.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12922	Thank you, this amendment has been withdrawn. The 24th Amendment of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12923	The amendment of 24th Zvonimir Mršić is not accepted because the amount at the position of the school space adaptations for the availability of children and youth with disabilities is sufficient to finance planned investments for 2008. Otherwise, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports spends this type of investment over a long period of time so that each year they co-finance the installation of elevators and ramps for disabled persons in 20 to 30 primary and secondary schools annually. In accordance with the requirements of schools and their founders. In addition to that amount in the state budget, founders also provide equal funds to those secured in the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12924	Thank you. Mr. Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12925	So I'll explain the 24th and 25th amendments because they're similar. It is that I have asked for more than 2.5 billion kuna to be collected from VAT, to allocate 700 thousand kuna more for the installation of elevators and the resolution of architectural, architectural barriers in primary and secondary schools and to enable children with difficulty in developing and disabled people to have access to education. With an estimated 300 thousand kuna for removing architectural barriers you can remove 4 or 5 barriers and for 700 thousand for elevators you can install 3 lifts, if you add that much more from the founders then it is 7 lifts a year. I thought, and I still believe that out of the 2.5 billion kuna, it can be singled out that this year we have twice as many elevators as you have predicted, but apparently some other priorities, are not priorities to make our schools available. Or we'll probably make our schools available by 2024. There's no reason to raise our hands for this, there's no political will here to single out a part of the money for people with disabilities in education.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12926	Thank you. So Amendments 24, 25 and 26 have been withdrawn. Thank you very much. 27th Amendment of the same representative, Zvonimir Mršić. [[/Intruder: Not 26.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12927	The 27th Amendment of Mrsic is also not accepted, as the obligation to finance the construction of the equivalent school in Koprivnica following the amendments and the addition of the Law on secondary education is also in the county budget, therefore, capital investments that have been decentralised. Otherwise, as I had previously said, if the insufficient funds for the minimum financial standard from the State budget were intervened from the so-called so-called. the balancing fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12928	Thank you. Mr. Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12929	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12930	This amendment has been withdrawn. 28th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the CNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12931	Amendment number 28. The club of representatives of the HNS is not accepted because the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports under the capital project K580015 is already conducting the construction of the technical school of Split, but the building of the hall to which the amendment applies, I will remind you that it is the amount of 7 million kuna that is sufficient this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12932	On behalf of the CNS, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12933	I'm sorry to say we don't agree with the argument, namely, this is a problem the ministry hasn't been able to solve for seven years. And contrary to all the decisions of the people living in the area, but the interests of the six schools in which 6 thousand children are forced are wanted on one space which has no spatial planning documents any conditions for building a school to push from the city of the school, from the city of the sports hall, on the bustle of existing sports grounds. So 6 thousand children need this area preserved with a gym and not in that place a crafty technical school. Therefore, if for 7 years in the state budget it was envisaged and had the means to build a sports hall for the needs of 6 secondary schools we have no reason to delay the whole thing until further inclusion of a crafts-based technical school that cannot be built there anyway. Please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12934	Thank you. Who is for this amendment that the government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 29th Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12935	The 29th Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club is not accepted. Because financing these halls is primarily a commitment to the budget of local administration and self-government. I will remind you once again, therefore, by amending and supplementing the 2001 law, precisely since 1 July 2001, capital investments have moved on to founders, and if they do not have enough funds, then from the Harmony Fund is being settled to a full amount. I will also say here that the Republic of Croatia has understanding for the needs of local administrations and self-government when the funds are not enough for the construction of a number of facilities and in this part, so through the loan of EIB2, the European Investment Bank, the Ministry of Regional Development, Forest and Water Economy, implements investment in the construction of more than 100 schools and sports halls. At this point, the EIB2 programme is closed and cannot be expanded.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12936	Thank you. Mr. Marin Brkaric. Here you go, on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12937	Here, very briefly, we are not satisfied normally with the explanation, we are not looking for funding, it is about the school-sports hall as a whole, but the joint funding of the ministry together with the county and the municipality of Kršan, and the reason why we are looking for is that it is a municipality where there is not one school-sports hall with two primary schools and more district schools and such a project is necessary and necessary, a project documentation of the localized permit has been developed and we certainly ask that the bar co-financing be accepted, I would say, not financing entirely, means joint financing of that one project. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12938	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He wasn't accepted, he didn't get the necessary majority. 30th Amendment of the same club IDS?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12939	Amendment 30. The IDS representative club is not accepted with the same explanation, perhaps clarity is in order to say. Therefore, since the state budget cannot be built, but from the budget of the founders of cities when it comes to primary schools and counties and the city of Zagreb when it comes to secondary schools, but all these loans that we have so far had from CEB to the last EIB2 and the World Bank loan, therefore, since they are interstate contracts, then from these funds can. If new opportunities are opened in the future, of course that possibility will be opened, not at this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12940	Thank you, on behalf of the IDS club, Mr. Representative Brkaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12941	So very briefly, the explanation would be the same as before and mine, it's the same school-sports hall in Pazin, the county headquarters. Certainly we, if nothing else, expect joint funding between us, the city of Pazin, the Istrian County, and the ministry itself. In that direction, I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12942	Thank you very much. This amendment has been withdrawn. 31st Amendment of Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12943	The 31st amendment of Mršić's representative is not accepted because, in accordance with the contract signed on construction and dynamics, the planned funding is sufficient to build the hall within the planned deadline. Thus, the mentioned hall will be ready to join the World Handball Championships in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12944	Thank you. Mr. Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12945	So, I'd rather you told me which legal basis you used in the first place to arrange for the construction of this hall because it's the law on basic and secondary education that is blocking you. But by the way, you signed a contract that the Hall of Osijek, the City Garden, will be completed by 20 November of this year and that the total amount will be 163 million 504 thousand etc. Plus construction of access roads, sewerage, public lighting and other 7 million. The payment deadline is 60 days after the temporary situation has been delivered. 90 million kunas cannot possibly be enough for you to pay 170 million kunas and here you either have to accept my amendment or you claim that the hall will not be completed within the deadline or you will not honor the contract you signed. So, you signed a contract on 163 million kuna, the payment deadline is 60 days after the temporary situation was delivered, and you can't possibly pay it with 90 million kuna. I ask that this amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12946	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thanks, he didn't get the necessary majority. The 32nd amendment of the same representative, Mr. Zvonimir Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12947	The 32nd Amendment of the Representatives of Zvonimir Mršić is not accepted because the 2008 State Budget provides funds for the diet and accommodation of students. I will remind you that these funds are provided within the university, and the Higher Education Administration will, according to the rule on improving student standards, examine the possibility of new items in the facility for nutrition and accommodation of students in a said manner.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12948	Thank you. Mr. Zvonimir, Mr. Lobster.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12949	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12950	Amendment withdrawn. Thank you. 33rd Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12951	The 33rd Amendment of the IDS Club of Representatives is not accepted because the planned funds are agreed and sufficient to finance the regular business of our university in Pula.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12952	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS, Mr. Representative Marin Brkarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12953	Well, I couldn't accept this argument given that we were in contact with the University of Juraj Dobrila in Pula to find that the funds were insufficient, so the funds were insufficient, they decreased compared to last 2007 as we said in the explanation. So they're shrinking to a percentage of 24%, so the energy costs that last 2007 amounted to 302 thousand 665 thousand kuna, that's really spent energy, this year it's planned to 74 thousand 823, which is a 24% index. In addition to opening up the university’s new 3,000s and putting into functions the new 3,000 square meters, I see no reason why the funds are less than spent in 2007 without counting the increase in energy and everything else needed. Please vote on the amendment and if it were, I'd say make this right.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12954	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thanks, he didn't get the necessary majority. 34th Amendment of the same club IDS.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12955	Amendment 34. The IDS representative club shall not be accepted with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12956	I mean, I have to repeat the same argument, it's the same about the cost of 2007. I believe it may be some kind of mistake in the ministry, but it is spent on municipal services in 2007. These funds have been reduced by 74%, so it is impossible to spend in 2008 less than in 2007, and I think it is necessary to correct that. Please vote for the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12957	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thanks, he didn't get the necessary majority. The 35th amendment of Mr. Zvonimir Mršić's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12958	The 35 amendments to Mršić's representative are not accepted. In particular, funds to promote the construction of student standard facilities shall be provided through the items of the budget relating to capital investments of each individual university. Within the framework of the planned funds and approved capital projects, each individual university will make appropriate decisions. The amendment is rejected because it significantly assumes that a university in Koprivnica is already established and exists as a separate higher education institution. Since the assumption is not true, no funds can be planned for these purposes.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12959	Mr. Representative Mršić, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12960	I'd just like to draw your attention to the Secretary of State, because you're a representative of the government. So the town of Koprivnica more than a year ago asked for a military no longer in office to be assigned to the town of Koprivnica and to join the establishment of a university. Unfortunately, we haven't received any response to our request one year after our request. Obviously, someone's interested in being an ambrosia and a rat and not a university, so we'll wait for another time, but it won't keep us from making Koprivnica a town of knowledge. We will withdraw this amendment. There is no will to encourage education from the state budget in Koprivnica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12961	This amendment has been withdrawn. 36 amendments to the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12962	The 36 amendments to the IDS Club representatives are not accepted because former military security funds are allocated for the adaptation of the student home and restaurant and for the design of other necessary and accompanying content.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12963	Thank you. On behalf of the club, Mr. Brkaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12964	Well, it's very short. The fact is that the funds in the budget for the Pula University business facilities were planned for 4 million kuna and are now being reduced by budget rebalance, and we know that the rebalancing is growing by a million kuna. So for the University of Pula’s business facilities, less funds are being allocated, i.e. from 4 million to 3 million kuna, means a million kunas less with everything I have said in advance, means the funds are being reduced for both energy and student standards and for municipal fees compared to even what was spent in 2007 which we will not allow this university to operate normally. I propose that, or I ask that the amendment be voted upon and accepted exactly as we have proposed, means that the funds remain at the same level as they were in the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12965	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 37 of the same club IDS.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12966	37 Amendments to the IDS Club shall not be accepted on the grounds that the planned funds are sufficient to cover the existing contractual obligations arising from the capital investment programme at the university... in Pula. [[You don't understand.]] In 2007, 8 million and 928 thousand kuna were invested in capital investment at the University of Pula. After defining the next steps of investment in university development, of course the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports will propose and provide sufficient resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12967	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Brkaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12968	Very short. It's the same explanation. The fact is that the County of Istria has allocated part of the General Hospital Pula, the old facilities for the accommodation of the university and the funds would be necessary. The fact is that this proposal that you've just said means, or by proposing budget rebalances, the funds are also shrinking in that position. So compared to 4 million, you're reducing them to 3. I'm asking the vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12969	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I thank the Secretary of State. I'm asking Minister Darko Milinovic. Mr. Darko Milinovic, Ministry of Health and Social Care. 38 amendments to the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12970	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted because the Law amending and supplementing the Social Care Act has increased the basis for social benefits from 400 to 500 kuna with effect from 1 November of this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12971	Thank you. In the name of the club, Madam Representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12972	Thank you, Mr. President. We propose replacing the funds that are intended to resuscitate the increase in energy prices, but also the total price rise this year, which are planned at the Ministry of Finance, worth 350 million kuna. I mean this one that refers to an item that applies only to the transfer of citizens. We think it is smarter and better and more rational that they are planned at the Ministry of Health and Social Care and that through the centres of social care it is directed towards families of poorer property, not to transfer to companies, for example. for subsidies for electricity to be given per consumption, not in the property condition of the family. The World Bank has also made a negative statement about this. We think this would be more rational and get the point. That's why I'm asking us to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12973	Thank you. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 39 amendments to Mrsic's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12974	The amendment is not accepted because the necessary advances guaranteeing the real justification for inclusion have not been made. The building offered at a price of 1500 euros per square metre is unacceptable for the Ministry of Health, as the ministry of health of the new building works at a price of 600 to 900 euros. We are in the process of negotiating the price and therefore is not included in the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12975	Thank you. Mr. Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12976	So it's about buying space for the Center for Social Care in the Križevci. These are 2 million, these are the funds that should be sufficient, because in negotiations with the construction company "Worker" from the Križevci who built the space, this space worked in accordance with the needs of the Centre for Social Care, the Križevci. I allow further negotiations to be carried out and to protect the interest of public money, but I think it is enough for you six months until the new year to complete these negotiations and pay "Worker" this year because he made that space in the middle of last year, which means that a year and a half ago and two years ago will wait for money which is not such a big problem. The bigger problem is that people who work at the Center for Social Care in the Križevci are working in completely inadequate conditions, and the new space is buried and only needs to make a contract and buy that space. I suggest that the item remain, and that you in the negotiations, end the negotiations by the new year, so I guess that's enough. I give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12977	This amendment has been withdrawn. 40 amendments to representatives Josip Lek, Nenad Stazic, Bruno Kurelic and Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12978	The amendment is not accepted because K618364 has already created contractual obligations.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12979	Thank you. On behalf of the representative, Mr. Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12980	The Honored Ministers, after the vote in this House, will continue the debate on the Law on Areas of Special State Care. This amendment of ours concerns this particular area. In the Municipality of Vojnić in Široki Rijeka, I do not know how familiar you are with it, there is a home for older and powerless persons, the only one in the area of the municipality and surrounding settlements. It's an area of special state concern, there's a lot of people with no electricity, most of them no plumbing, there's no adequate roads, there's no infirmary, there's no store, there's nothing. The first such home, a similar home is in Karlovac, 40 km away. With these assets that aren't large, 256 thousand kuna... 20 people from this area could be placed in that home in the broad river. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here we have listened to the reasoning of this Law on areas of special state concern that the Government is investing special care in these areas. Here's a chance to show that concern. Accept this amendment, otherwise what is said on behalf of the government and what your colleagues of HDZ have said, defending this law will be an empty story. With 256 thousand kunas you can help accommodate 20 elderly, powerless, sick people from the Vovic area. Are you gonna do it or not? I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12981	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 41st Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12982	The amendment is not accepted because both the obligation and the obligation of the Istrian County was settled in December 2007 where the remaining funds amounting to 8 million kuna and 200 thousand kuna were sufficient to settle the remaining obligations of the ministry which included the remaining commitments of the Istrian County for which it did not provide the funds in its budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12983	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS, Mr. Representative Brkaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12984	Here, very briefly, it is about the House of Mental Diseases "Villa Maria" in Pula, whose founder is the Republic of Croatia, and the fact is that both the city of Pula and the Istrian County and the Ministry funded this building. The minister said the funds would be sufficient. If it's enough, we're withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12985	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? And you're pulling back? This amendment has been withdrawn. Thank you very much. 42, IDS Club, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12986	The amendment is not accepted because the necessary advances guaranteeing the real justification for inclusion are not completed, the project is not completed.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12987	Thank you. Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12988	I mean, I don't know what could be more real and justifiable than building a home for older and powerless people in Umag. It's a city that doesn't have that home for old and powerless people, the realization is just in progress, it's started to build, it's about digs for foundations and so on. And I really can't understand one of these reasons, I can't understand, I can't understand, I can't understand, and I'm asking the MPs to support building a home for older and powerless people in Umag with their vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12989	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 43, Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12990	43rd, right? The amendment is not accepted because the necessary advances guaranteeing the implementation of the project have not been carried out.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12991	Thank you. Mr. Representative Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12992	Would you... If they did, they'd get the money. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay. I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12993	This amendment has been withdrawn. 44th Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12994	The amendment is not accepted since it will not be possible to deliver the implementing and project documentation in 2008 and therefore sufficient resources are provided for.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12995	If I care about any amendments, then we care about funds for the General Hospital in Pula. In fact, the budget for this purpose provided 15.3 million kuna, eventually 7.2 million kuna. In one word, you took away 7 million 760 thousand 344 kuna. Why? Because the paperwork isn't finished, so we'll be able to finance that money with 7.2 million kuna. But why are you taking these nearly 8 million kunas from us? If you want, if you have good intentions, Mr. Minister, then direct that money to the 8 million kuna that remains on that item for the purchase of some CT, some x-rays, some other equipment, arrange the cooling, arrange the air conditioning at that general hospital, arrange one operating room. This year's budget rebalancing reduced Istria's 12m kuna County compared to the original funds secured by the budget for this year. You've reduced 48 million kunas to 36 million kunas. He tells me earlier, Mr. Šetic, so for Veli Vrh elementary school, the prime minister told all of you here I believe the word, especially on our ministers' word, Prime Minister, but I will only believe them when something concrete is specified in the state budget. So I trust everyone's word, but this amendment is an example of being careful, suspicious and particularly skeptical in the future, because even when we have 15 million kunas at the beginning of the year, it can turn into 7 million kunas at the end of the year or in the middle of the year, and by the end of the year into an even smaller figure. I know the gentlemen who are in power, I can do whatever they want, not as long as they want, but they have, I respect that, and I respect that, but I simply cannot approve and understand this behavior that a figure of 15 million kuna can be converted into 7.2 million kuna in the middle of the year. I am so asking you gentlemen to confirm by vote "for" this amendment to the IDS Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12996	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I thank the minister. On behalf of the Ministry of Justice, Mr. Secretary of State Drazen Bosnjakovic. We have an amendment to Mr. Zvonimir Mrsic's 45th representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12997	The government does not accept this amendment. It's just, as you know, we don't have that kind of contract this year to spend that kind of money. However, I must say the real problem of accommodation of our services in Koprivnica exists and is one of the larger ones in the Republic of Croatia. We have a court where we can't put all the services, some are in the county building, some are in the rented space. And in the next period quite certainly Koprivnica will have the balance of funds to build this new building or one annex and after we bring it, I believe that we will bring, after this Law on a new network of courts, one of my first activities is coming to Koprivnica, because one of the solutions that our people in the ministry have proposed includes certain particles owned by the town of Koprivnica. So we'll be together very soon, very soon we'll meet in the field where we'll discuss and those offered solutions. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12998	Thank you. Mr. Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u12999	Well, I can't be satisfied with this explanation, because this is eight times that I'm giving the amendment and eight times you say you understand the state. The judges in Koprivnica almost dictate the verdicts in the hallway, because there are no such conditions to work normally, and now if you bring this network of courts, then you will naturally connect the court in Djurdjevac with the court in Koprivnica. So there's no place to work in Koprivnica, and now you're going to connect the court from Djurjevac. If there are no projects to build, then give some smaller item to enter that budget this year, and start designing, because just thinking that means it might be over in a four, five years, and that's something that's totally unacceptable. Here, I appeal, I withdraw the amendment. But my appeal always stays in the air, because in the next budget it is never seen in realisation, even though the Ministry of Justice understands us terribly. [["Eight of luck."]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u13000	Thank you. This amendment has been withdrawn. I'm asking Mr. Secretary of Finance Ivan Shucker. It's the 46th amendment, Agent Ante Kotromanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u13001	An amendment that's always the hardest, it's CROMAC. So the government has increased by 20 million planned funds and unfortunately we cannot accept your amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u13002	Mr. Representative Kotromanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u13003	More esteemed Minister, we know all the problems in demining, I'm very sad we can't accept these 20 million yet. I'm afraid in a few months, we're gonna have another pyrotechnic strike, and you've seen these days, people are strikers, but they didn't even get paid, they didn't get it. I believe that the demining of the national interest of the Republic of Croatia and that we have to do everything simply together, to put this ad act once. The other day I read a statement from Deputy Prime Minister Djurđe Adlesic that it is possible to speed up demining and that it could end by 2010. I don't know how? Only to import 10,000 little green spacers who will eat mines free of charge. I mean this, but obviously there's absolutely no knowledge of the situation on the ground. I am asking especially fellow MPs in the field of special state care that they too understand the problem. Em, we're affected by the destruction, by the destruction of that area, but we still have so many mines that we don't know when we're going to demine it. I'd like it if nothing else at least next financial year to take the seriousness of this, so that we can secure enough resources to no longer talk about demining the way we talk. I'm glad there's now an increase of 20 million, and I welcome that, and it will in one way put out the fire. But Minister, here I am asking you next year to see what we can do and to ensure, say some permanent form of demining solution humanitarianally in Croatia. Here, I don't think there's any need to vote on it, but I hope we understand these problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u13004	This amendment has been withdrawn. Amendment 47 to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u13005	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u13006	This amendment becomes an integral part of the proposal. Now, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, please let's see what it's like with the quorum first, let's get involved, let's get the keys. Please, let's get on with it. What, the score? 103 MPs have been involved. So we have the quorum to decide. I am voting on the amendment and addition of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? 80 votes for, no abstentions, 40 against, were accepted to amend and supplement the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008, together with the amendments accepted. Now we will comply with Article 24. The budget law shall decide on the consent of financial plans outside the budget beneficiaries. First, I am voting in favour of the decision to give consent to the changes and addition of the financial plans of the Croatian Waters for 2008. Please, let's get involved and vote. Is something wrong? What are they doing? Here I can't vote. He's not receiving, no. Here you go. Thank you. Until the situation of these functionings is fixed, I ask that we accept Mr. Cain's proposal. I am voting in favour of the decision to give consent to the amendments and additions to the financial plan of the Croatian Waters for 2008. Who's in, please raise your hand? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. I find that a decision has been taken. 81 for, against 43, one abstention. So, the decision to give consent. Is it fixed? It is. That's settled. Decision on granting consent to the amendments and additions to the financial plan of the Croatian Roads for 2008. We have one amendment from Mršić's representative. I'm asking Mr. Zeljko Tufekcic, State Secretary, to declare the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u13007	The amendment is not accepted. The amount of funds for... County Road Administrations is defined by a public road construction and maintenance programme for the period 2005-2008, which is exactly the amount of 240 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u13008	Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u13009	So, at the beginning of this year, we had here a presentation of the new government and the adoption of the government's programme. This amendment is literally prescribed in the Government Programme. And I don't know how you can say now that something won't be adopted by the government program. And the government programme said that 70% of the year-on-year will increase the amount from transfers to the county road administrations because since 2003 that amount has not been raised by 240 million kuna. So five years already is 240 million kuna in absolute amount. For the amount of inflation, no transfer was raised for the county road administrations and this was one of the conditions of the HSS in the conclusion of the coalition agreement that this was then translated into the government's programme. Therefore, the vote on this amendment now puts the vote on whether the government will implement its programme adopted by the ruling majority or not. Or it's enough as it is for European laws to pass the law and then we won't implement it. Therefore, I ask you to take on this amendment vote... There's no vote here on money, there's a vote here on whether the ruling majority is ready to implement the programme that voted, or whether it's a dead letter on paper. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u13010	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I'm making a decision to vote. Please, let's get on with it. Let's vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u13011	What's the government's program for anyway? What's the government for?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u13012	Let's get on with it. Let's vote, please. The result? This decision was adopted by a majority of 80 votes in favour, 42 against and 5 abstentions. We move to the Decision on granting consent to the amendments and additions of the State Agency's financial plan for the insurance of savings deposits and the resolution of banks for 2008. Please, let's get on with it. Let's vote. The result? I find that most of the vote is 79 votes in favour of, 35 against and 8 abstentions to this decision. Fourthly, I am voting in favour of the 2008 Decision on granting consent to the amendments and additions to the 2008 Fund's financial plan for the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund. Please, let's get on with it. Let's vote. The result? The decision was adopted by a majority of 80 votes in favour, 41 against and 4 abstentions. Fifth, I am voting in favour of the decision to give consent to the amendments and additions to the financial plan of the Croatian Privatisation Fund for 2008. Please, let's get on with it. Let's vote. The result? I find that most of the vote is 79 votes, 37 against and 4 abstentions to this decision. The Legislative Committee proposes to the Assembly the following conclusion: "The Professional Service of the Croatian Parliament is authorised to carry out a revision of the text of amendments and additions together with the proposing representatives. ... Louder? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] "The Professional Service of the Croatian Parliament is hereby authorised to carry out, together with the representatives of the proposings, a revision of the text of amendments and additions to the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008 and to amend and supplement the financial plans before their publication in the National Journal." Please, let's get involved and vote on this, on the Legislative Committee, on the proposal. The result? The decision was passed by a majority vote with 114 votes in favour and 6 against, and 6 abstentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u13013	And we are going to the second item of the agenda, which is - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008, second reading, P.Z. No. 130 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 184. The Rules of Procedure together with the Proposal for a State Budget shall also be submitted to the Final Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of the State Budget. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Law, the Committee on Development and Reconstruction, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Links and the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. You received the reports at the sessions. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Thank you, no need says Finance Minister Ivan Shuker. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Nobody's answering, so they don't want to. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. He's gone. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. This concludes today's session. Tomorrow morning we will continue at 9:30 with the next item and this is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Support in Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 110. Thank you very much, good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-03-0.u13014	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008. Please, let's get on with it. Let's vote. The result? The law was passed by a majority vote with 79 votes in favour, 43 against and 5 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, good morning, everyone! We continue with the session and begin with the agenda point - Final draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on State support in agriculture, fisheries and forestry, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 110 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and when establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this law. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, the Committee on Development and Reconstruction. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State secrets at the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries and Rural Development, Mr Krešimir Kuterovac. Here you go.
