ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u21968	I would now suggest that the three Final Proposals of the Law on Tourist Communities and the Promotion of Croatian Tourism, the Law on Memberships in Tourist Communities and the Law on Tourist Tax be held in a united debate. Do we agree? Okay. - The final proposal of the Law on Tourist Communities and the promotion of Croatian tourism is an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 199 - Final proposal of the Law on Memberships in Tourist Communities is an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 198 - Final proposal of the House Tax Act is an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 200 Proposer is Government. P.Z.E.'s are everything. It's an emergency procedure. Amendments to the end of the debate carried out by the Committees on Law, European Integration, Tourism. Proposer representative, Tourism Minister Damir Bajs will further explain the proposals. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u21969	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Greetings to all MPs. Here I will briefly present the postulates that led us in the drafting of the Law on Tourist Communities and the promotion of Croatian tourism and two accompanying Laws on Taxes and Tourist Memberships. What I would say first is the fact that the Law on Tourist Communities and, in general, all your laws come from 1994. Given that it is now in 2008, it is completely different that in these almost 15 years, changes were needed in a system that is extremely important for Croatian tourism. Namely, the system of tourist communities also serves to promote from local level to state, and I would say and control and coordinate, but transport Croatian tourism. What is particularly to be pointed out here is that when we did this law, then we followed the fact that, of course, everything that had changed in those 15 years had to be incorporated into something that would further encourage Croatian tourism. Three things were crucial. The first thing was that in this law it had to be indicated that the tourist community was getting a new function. A new function she has not had so far, which is the management of a tourist destination. It's one of those red threads that led us to make the law. The other thing was that tourist communities must be partners in the private sector, that they must go to a united promotion, that they must simply work together to improve the destination but not only to improve the destination but also to highlight the promotion of their individual destinations of the city, municipality or county but of course the totals of Croatia itself. And the third thing I would point out was specifically indicated is further professionalization of the system. We therefore want more professionals to be represented in the system of tourist communities in a way that is actually through expert exams and other ways to raise standards that are already quite high. When we talk about managing destinations as one of the changes is particularly important I will point out that we are going to achieve this through a series of legal provisions. So our goal is to have the tourist community of a municipality or city when it is already established get that new assignment. One of the elements that we've been running is that here, too, the public and private sectors must be in agreement. And so we have proposed something that is otherwise in line with new laws regarding the system of local self-government. So these are the laws that define the election of mayors, mayors and mayors but through this system of laws we are not having the opportunity to nominate a member who has been delegated before the headship as president of the Croatian Tourist Board in that capacity is the mayor, mayor and mayor. The reason is a double. One is the alignment of the rules and the other is the management of destinations. We actually want those who are chosen by the people, who represent the people, who have I would say the key mechanisms and deposits to manage the destination through a series of other activities that the law of the day have and review and coordinate I would stress all those efforts that the tourist community itself is working on managing the tourist destination. It's something that we think is in itself understood in the light of what the waist is looking for right now. In particular, we want a mayor who manages the county without headship right now with the possibility and obligation... to actually manage a series of potentials and to coordinate in fact all efforts at the level of, for example, the county, along with those efforts to unite in the tourism community itself and to promote tourism and manage the destination that all infrastructure and other projects are in line with the needs of tourism without being overly burdened by it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What should also be said that this goal would have been achieved should have been another matter. In fact, the system of tourist communities so far was only able to promote Croatian tourism or the destination itself and now we are actually moving that ban. We actually allow tourist communities to do other public jobs that are not in conflict with competition in the private sector. Therefore, tourist communities can manage the destination at the moment by performing other tasks that will be handed over to them by municipalities, cities, public-type counties, which are related to public governance but with that fence that can't be competitive to the private sector. This enables the tourist community to have levers that will, in fact through duality, allow it to simply agree with local policy but also with those who will have tourist councils, which are the very people who make up tourism itself because the tourist council is of course further selected from companies that are, of course, engaged in tourism and are related to tourism. Another thing I would particularly like to stress is the question of a new relationship related to the fact that we want especially in these situations, situations that will be challenging for the Croatian economy, but we must always say about Croatian tourism, that more than ever before, one agreement is important, one joint appearance of the private and public sector. And that's why we want to transfer to the tourist communities and lower ranks even from municipal to city, and then county and, of course, according to the main office, one need, one I would say imperative moment but also the future, which is that in all their activities they have a number of consulting but especially I would stress mandatory relations and the inter-private sector, so that they actually need in this way in times that are ahead of us to take over and promote in a more recent way. That's what I would say has been a long time ago and a requirement of profession to in such a way set up a system of tourist communities and we think although... I think that's what we're actually responding to these wishes of the profession itself, but we're also harmonising our system with a system that exists in our own countries that are competitive to us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We also believe, of course, that in the system of tourist communities there is still work to be done in the supplemental I would say professionalisation within the system. So, we're running expert exams for all the employees. We believe that there is and should be addressed the issue of a potential conflict of interest. Namely, the fact is that the system of tourist communities is the system where the best people on the ground work in tourism on I would say implementing such demanding tasks. What should be pointed out is that with this professionalization, of course, we want to simply give a situation in which one who works in the public sector cannot and should not compete in the private sector and that is something that led us to the provision that we have now stated. Of course, when we look at this system, it will come into force within the meaning of this law if the Parliament accepts it, implementing it from 1.1.2010. He will step in immediately but all the implementing activities that were before then and, for example, of course, the choice of local leaders and then by constituting... works so that in fact such a complex system consisting of 330 tourist communities of various ranks would have one year to align, adapt and for me would say monitoring changes within the legal framework. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We are convinced that in this way Croatia can respond through a state agency that exists everywhere in the world and to all of us competitive countries not only in the environment but also beyond. A narrower and closer coordination between the tourism ministry and the main office is also being introduced. We would also like to stress the importance that through the Ministry of Tourism we are also giving considerable resources in promoting Croatian tourism. They, of course, have their own sources of income, but when the state gives such resources, of course, coordination and control is necessary, necessary and justified in their own way. All in order for the united product, so the promotion of Croatian tourism to be united all in order to unite the product and that is the promotion of Croatian tourism to be uniform in all the markets that are of paramount importance to us. Of course, under this law, we have made all the changes that have taken place in the legislation for the last 15 years, I will not individually list them, but surely these things go in order for the system of tourist communities to be in line with the overall legal system of the Republic of Croatia. As for the second set of laws, I will say that the Law on Memberships in Tourist Communities actually harmonizes with the national classification of activities, therefore, with the positive legal regulations determines who falls under the payment of membership fees,... is introduced into tourist classes, a quality and quantitative practical criterion is introduced and what may be a special novelty, which has not been so far. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] From municipalities and cities that generate gross income less than 200 thousand kuna per year, membership fees are not allocated as so far between the main office of the county,... and city rather than actually remains everything in the local community, in this case in the tourist community of the city and the tourist community of the county. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The reason is simple, we also want to support those environments that have tourist communities, but whose income is somewhat smaller than we would like and in this way practically state or main office will have income that will be less than perhaps indicated to change their operationality, but these few million kunas... will be less, will remain more in local communities that intend to develop tourism. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as the House Tax Act is concerned, I must say, of course, that it remains basically the way it is, but we are also introducing something that is a complete newspaper, something that is otherwise sought, which is actually, I would say a quality, simple, but also an effective charge of tourist tax and nautical tourism, through which, therefore, a system of vignettes where tourists who come in this way to Croatia, and nautical tourism is increasingly important every year for total Croatian tourism. Therefore, on the one hand, it does not burden the daily payment of the residence tax, and on the other hand it is simple and effective for payment. So when we talk about it, then we're actually talking about a situation where we can simply expect more income from that system than those that, and we're going to give them actually less burden in terms of daily payment of tourist tax. However, I would also like to stress another newspaper that is the same as in the newspaper of membership, which is that up to 200 thousand kunas are practically changing the ratios of funds and that they are actually supporting those less tourist communities, or maybe we can tell those tourist communities that have smaller incomes in a way where they have the same below 200 thousand kunas we are dissuading them from the obligation to co-finance the main office and leave the funds on a local level so that they can make quality and good use of it. This system, therefore, is a complex system, I can stress that I am glad that it has come to an interest in the profession and, of course, I am glad that the parliamentary committees have studied it thoroughly. However, I will also say that after 15 years, it is really time for our main state agency, which is called in this case, the Croatian Tourist Board to be in line with everything that the profession is looking for in the turbulent times ahead of us, and for these changes to go after the fact that they are given new tasks such as the management of the destination, that new tasks are given to them by the private sector and better quality promotions and that they are going to further professionalise with those changes that will lead us to Croatian tourism, which I will remind you of, but also makes themselves and viewers 18% of the share in gross national income that makes strategic... Croatia's economy gets further, I'd say an incentive to be competitive. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And Croatian tourism must be competitive not because it wants to, not because it wants to, but because it has to be. In fact, 85 of our tourists come from abroad, these tourists can choose any other destination in the world, you yourself know that tourism is usually both a branch of progress and elsewhere, and that just such measures must work to ensure that the competitiveness of Croatian tourism is in no way questionable, and these times are precisely those times that highlight the need for such a united approach to the public and private sector. Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u21970	Thank you. Legislative committees, European integration, the Committee on Tourism? Reporters of the board, Mr Marin Brkarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u21971	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. At the 10th session held on 2 December 2008 and on 4 December 2008, the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the Proposal for a Law on Tourist Communities and the Promotion of Croatian Tourism with the Final Proposal for a Law submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by Act of 27 November 2008, with a proposal to comply with Article 161. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall adopt the proposed law by an urgent procedure. The final proposal for a law pursuant to Article 69 is discussed by the Committee on Tourism. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a home working body, in particular in the area relating to the identification and monitoring of the implementation of the tourism development of the Republic of Croatia. On the basis of the preliminary exhibitors of the representatives of the proposings and representatives of the committee, it has been established that the Law on Tourist Communities and the promotion of Croatian tourism are... The financial laws he passed in 1991, adapted to this territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia in 1994, created assumptions for the construction and operation of the systems of tourist communities and national tourism organisations based on a long tradition and almost 150th anniversary of the first organisational forms in Croatian tourism. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] During the 15-year activities in the Republic of Croatia, on the principles of non-profitability, not politics and democracy, as well as the work of general benefit, this system has shown all its importance and effectiveness in the field of promoting, improving and promoting our tourist offer. That during the implementation of the aforementioned laws, there has been an expression of some non-compliance of certain provisions in relation to the experience gained, and in particular the need for better coordination within the tourism community systems, more effective formulations of tourism promotion programmes and more transparent use of funds and better supervision of the financial operations of these communities. On the basis of the debate, it can be argued that there has been a huge dissatisfaction with the members of the board, as well as dissatisfaction from certain tourist communities because of the fact that this law, which is of great importance not only for the development of Croatian tourism but also for its positioning on the international tourist market, is brought into an urgent procedure. For this reason, the Committee has taken a position to refer the proposal to the applicant to consider the possibility of this law being adopted in a regular procedure so that a more high-quality debate can be achieved, and the different factors involved in the creation of a Croatian tourist product can express their opinions and suggestions. After a general debate, the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on Tourist Communities and promote Croatian tourism with 8 amendments. If necessary, I will read them but we have them in writing. And since the other laws on residence tax and membership are being discussed together, I will read only the end that after the discussion of the Tourism Committee on the Law on Tourist Tax by majority of votes; 8 for and 1 against the decision to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law on Tourist Tax with 18 amendments, and as regards the Law on Tourist Memberships, the Committee on Tourism unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law on Tourist Memberships in Tourist Communities with 3 amendments. We all have amendments in the board's records. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u21972	Thank you very much. I'm interrupting the hearing. We'll continue at 3:00. Club of HDZ Representatives Mr. Gary Capelli and Mr. Representative on behalf of the HNS Club Goran Beus-Richembergh and so on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u21973	My colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Minister. I suggest we start work as announced. We're starting a club debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished colleague Gary Capelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u21974	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Minister, the Secretary of State. So, before us, we have a three-point debate. These are the Final Proposal of the Law on Tourist Communities and the Promotion of Croatian Tourism, the Final Proposal of the Law on Memberships and Tourist Communities and the Final Proposal of the Law on residence tax. Therefore, the Croatian Tourist Board as a national tourist organisation was established to create and promote the identity and reputation of Croatian tourism, plan and implement a common strategy and concept of its promotion, propose and implement promotional activities in the country and abroad of common interest for all tourism entities and raise the quality of the entire tourist offer. The Act on Tourist Communities and the Promotion of Croatian Tourism and Follow-up Financial Laws, which was passed long ago in 1991, is adapted to the new territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia. '94. In the years, assumptions were created for the construction and operation of tourist communities and national tourism organisations based on a long tradition, almost 150th anniversary of the first organisational forms in Croatian tourism. Some of the most important tasks of the Croatian Tourist Board are to combine the entire tourist offer of the Republic of Croatia, develop programmes and plans to promote Croatian tourism products, encourage and coordinate the promotion of all tourist communities, as well as all economic and other tourism entities that act directly and indirectly to improve and promote tourism in Croatia, establish tourism representations and facilities abroad, organise and oversee their work. Thus, it should be mentioned that there are exposures in Austria, Belgium, the Czech Republic, Denmark, France, Italy, Japan, Hungary, the Netherlands, Germany, Poland, Russia, the United States, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and the UK. He is working with national tourism organisations of other countries and specialised international regional tourism organisations. Based on the report from the tourist communities, the county monitors, analyzes and evaluates the implementation of plans and programmes of established tasks and the role of the tourist communities system, takes measures and activities to develop and promote tourism in the touristy underdeveloped parts of the Republic of Croatia. The proposal for a new Law on Tourist Communities expanded the number of tasks of tourist communities, and thus provided the possibility of creating a business policy of the tourist community, innovation, development of destination management in cooperation with local self-governments, counties and at the level of Croatia as a whole. As we know, the bodies of the Croatian Tourist Board are the Assembly, the Tourist Council, the Supervisory Board and the President. Croatia's tourism community president's duty is being handled by the tourism minister. The bodies are still the congregations, the tourist council, the supervisory board and the president of the tourist community. The Croatian Tourist Board operates on the basis of the annual work programme and the financial plan adopted by the Assembly and generates revenues from the following sources: residence taxes, membership fees, state budget and other sources. The tourist community in Croatia operates on the level of municipalities or cities, county or the Tourist Board of the City of Zagreb and the Croatian Tourist Board with a central center in Zagreb. So far, we also have examples of popular forms of tourist communities such as Krka is an island tourist community which is a unique example of uniting the interest of a more tourist community in the island area, with a view to better quality promotion and development of the tourist product, as well as an example of the Makarska Riviera Tourist Board. These are positive examples, and this amendment to the Law on Tourist Communities encourages and enables the establishment of these and similar forms of tourist communities. Incomes in tourist communities in 14 years of existence justified their existence. Tourist communities are important subjects of development and promotion of Croatian tourism. In everyday application of the existing Law on Tourist Communities, certain indeterminations, inaccuracy and inaccuracies to be corrected by this law have been observed, and the activities of tourist communities will be more effective and the spending of financial resources will be more meaningful. The aim is, with the least direct financial support from the budget, to provide a quality and efficient system for the tourism community system. This law lays down basic issues that are regulated, which is the structure of the systems of tourist communities, the bodies of tourist communities, the way of work, the tasks, the principles of financing, management, membership in tourist communities, income and the use of these incomes and supervision of the spending of these revenues. This will achieve a better quality tourist offer, development of tourism products, spending resources, promotion, coordination, professional staff and thus the efficiency of a system that counts in Croatia alone 330 tourist communities. Therefore, the implementation of this law does not require funding from the state budget, it is not planned to do so, and since the Law on residence tax is a law which is also in line with European Union rules, it is necessary to adopt all three laws together to ensure the regular functioning of the system. The Act on Tourist Communities and the Promotion of Croatian Tourism in Fundamental Provisions in Article 10(3) states that the tourist community is allowed to publish commercial ads on its promotional materials, sell souvenirs, tourist maps and guides, except for its own promotional material. This change of law is considered positive because the inability to sell souvenirs, tickets and so on. gave the impression that the tourist community does not care about the needs of guests who are in a place where they can get all the tourist information they want to buy souvenirs, tickets, etc. Also, commercial advertising that will certainly help tourist communities in the funded promotional material, and to interested members and partners the possibility of a quality presentation. All materials are printed in high loads so that this will enable mutual interest. Article 14(3) is amended and it is said that members or representatives of members of the tourist community cannot, through the power of authority, empower another person to participate in the work of the congregation instead. This stops the abuse of positions and voting in another's name, which we consider to be positive and important. Article 18(2) changes and says: "The duty of the president of the tourist municipality or of the city and county shall be exercised by the municipal chief, mayor or mayor." An extremely important and major change in the law, which improves the co-operation of the tourist community and local self-government, has happened in practice that the presidents of tourist communities, representatives of tourism companies who have usually indirectly filtered the ideas of administration through tourist communities. They imposed costs, guidelines for working towards the tourist community. With this change, the tourist community will cooperate more effectively on the city's projects, assist in co-financing, joint promotion and destination management, which is listed in this new law as one of the new tasks of the tourist community. We had examples of where in tourist communities the presidents, i.e. The members and president of the council or the assembly of the tourist community are even a representative of the company that in the meantime became the owner of a foreign person, meaning a foreign company. So we have a president of the tourist community who represents a foreign company, practically, a tourist house, which I do not think that this company will certainly represent the legitimate and quality public interest of a city or municipality. So this change is very important. With the fact that it is likely that some amendments will go so that perhaps some person who can be authorised by the mayor, mayor, or possibly the mayor to be on his behalf. In Article 19(1) of the amendment to the law, one member of the Board of Supervisors of the Tourist Board of the Tourist Board delegates the tourism council of the County. This wants to carry out a monitoring that is impartial, even more quality, thus reducing the potential for poor management. In Article 23 of the Director of the Tourist Office, professional workers shall be required to carry out the tasks of the tourist community, except for the fulfilment of the specific conditions laid down in the Rules of Procedure, to have a professional examination passed, which has not been the case so far. Also, Article 23 discusses a conflict of interest, and in practice it was very often possible to find examples where the directors of tourist communities or members of their families perform a tourist activity directly related to the work of the tourist community. In that case, there was the possibility of agreeing to certain decisions. The legislator, precisely because of these problems in practice, wanted to end this negative development. Article 30, paragraph 1 as voluntary members, introduces one quality, one novelty to which members of the tourist community in accordance with Article 28. This is a request from persons who wish to enable prominent individuals who wish to participate in the work of the assembly but who do not have a high enough payment of the residence fee to be able to participate in the work of the assembly. Article 26 discusses the cooperation of tourist communities with the bodies of units of local self-government, municipalities and cities, the joint use of residence tax is agreed, the development of tourism development plans, master plans and the like. So there's a major shift towards co-operation with local self-government. In Article 32, in the list of tasks, the tourist community of course has some news under this law, as I say, management of tourist some, resources in terms of plans, master plans etc. In Article 33(4), it is considered as a share of the tourism community’s income, paragraph 3 of this Article, membership fees and 25% of the residence tax. So, the change is that a maximum of 1 member can have a third of the representatives in the congregation. Until now, it was recommended that 50% of the representatives in the assembly could have a single member, this assembly would be more transparent for quality work, because we had cases where one company practically had a majority, practically a majority in the assembly, and could also do certain things for the benefit of the company itself, which I believe is in conflict with public interest. The association of tourist communities in Article 60, paragraph 1 may be established in the area of the island, Riviera or similar spatial area. This can enable stronger promotion and a common strategy of related areas. Since guests in certain situations are not interested in administrative boundaries, they want to experience a destination this will allow common promotional materials etc.. We also find it important to sanction what is being introduced in article 76 of the irregular business which has not been in practice or in law so far. Therefore, the purpose of establishing tourist communities is to promote and improve tourism as strategic economic branches, and within the systems of tourist communities they need to strengthen and promote economic interests. Therefore, the extremely important role of tourist communities in promoting new economic operators that are yet to achieve certain results, identify the interest that would make tourism in destinations more quality and connect all economic operators, small entrepreneurs, farmers, hotel owners, renters, tourist agencies, boaters, fishermen, souvenir manufacturers, camps and caterers and all in close cooperation, this opportunity and this law bring us closer to better and more quality cooperation with local self-government. The founders of tourist communities continue to be its members, but as to a certain degree of development, development care is taken by the tourist community, a large part of the city's or county's obligations are transferred to tourist communities. Promotional activities on the foreign market of tourist communities of the municipality or city in the future are carried out with the tourist community of the county in which it was founded and only exceptionally independent. This strengthens the efficiency of the presentation and reduces financial expenditure. The papers proposed in the tasks of the tourist communities of the municipality or the city are the management of public tourist infrastructure by the municipality or city, and the management of the tourist destination through participation in the definition of policy and development of tourism. There is also a proposal for a change in the article of the 35th Chamber of Tourists, so that there will be 8 members and presidents. That's it. In that quota, the current possibility of two members of the council delegated by the headship shall be abolished, among other things, by amending the law where the role of the president is played by the head, or by the mayor, i.e. The mayor or who they eventually empower. In particular, it is prescribed that tourist communities co-operate with foreign, regional tourism organisations, and that they may be members of tourist organisations, e.g. World Tourist Organizations. With regard to the control of newspapers, it is the fact that HTZ is given greater powers in direct control compared to the powers so far. As regards measures, who covers supervision. According to Article 80, the existing tourist communities of municipalities, cities and places are obliged to coordinate acts and structures within 10 months of the entry into force of this law. The residence tax law is allocated in a way that 65% belongs to tourist communities of towns and municipalities, 10 County and 25 Croatian tourist communities. The proposed law therefore regulates who the bonds are, the height, the way in which the residence tax is paid, and others, other obligations. It is important, for example, in Article 19, that 40% of the amount of residence tax paid to the tourist community, 10% of national parks and nature parks, and 50% of the use for promoting nautical tourism. The legislator also responded to the negative remarks in practice in Article 20(3) where 65% of the assets of the tourist communities of the municipality or of the city of which 30% of the tourist community's assets are available to the city or municipality that was founded and used exclusively to improve the living conditions. Some towns and municipalities did not spend their purpose in improving the conditions of tourist stay. This joint programme will make your business failures impossible. Therefore, tourist communities will channel funds towards the city knowing what purpose it will be spent on because it will be brought together. And the latest on tourist memberships. As a significant income from tourist communities especially in continental counties where it accounts for even 90% of the income for a small number of accommodation facilities, and thus also for tourist taxes. It is therefore very important to distinguish the payment of the tourist community. In addition to some of the proposals proposed by the Tourism Committee itself, I think this law is of quality, so the Croatian Democratic Community club will also support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u21975	Thank you very much, fellow representative. On behalf of the HNS Club, distinguished representative, colleague Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u21976	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with his associates. I must begin to show some kind of satisfaction at first because I remember that Minister Bajs promised at the beginning of his term that he would come very soon with one package of laws, i.e. a change of regulations that should revise the situation in the Croatian tourist community system, but also improve the circumstances and models of the functioning of the entire tourist system. In this sense, the HNS Club welcomes the proposals that are ahead of us, but of course it has a whole series of objections, issues, suggestions, the need for clarification, because some parts of these texts do not seem to be fully consistent, i.e. in some parts they are unclear or contradictory. So if it didn't all come down to political evaluation, I'd try to be very specific. When we talk about the Law on Tourist Communities and promoting Croatian tourism, Article 10 defines what a tourist community can do. So point 5, which says it can mediate in the reservation of private accommodation if it is in the tourist resort for which the tourist community is founded there is no registered tourist agency is somewhat dubious. We all know that there are three types of tourist agencies. One is emitting, the other is receptive, the other is combined. What in cases, which are present, can also give you a concrete example when there are three tourist agencies in the city, but none are receptive. They only deal with broadcast programs. In this sense, the tourist community is no one's competition. But the hand-to-heart should say that this law opens up the possibility that the tourist community is dealing with those affairs that the notes are exclusively a mission of the commercial sector. It actually comes from the fact that we suffer because the commercial sector is not in all environments equally well developed and that there is no content that we would ask it to do. In many places you really can't buy a postcard or souvenir or find out about private accommodation, you can't actually buy anything because there are no tourist agencies. Of course, commercial organisers, first of all agents, but then other service providers including souvenir traders cannot view these solutions lightly because they see it as competition and that as unfair competition. In that sense, this is a wire dance. But when it comes to these solutions that will make it easier for many tourist communities to function, I warn them that the problem is different types of tourist agencies, i.e. tourist agencies. Furthermore, when it is said in paragraph 5 that the minister will prescribe a special regulation that is actually considered a tourist infrastructure, it may still have to be defined by this law because it remains a very large space. So there are beaches, bathrooms, swimming pools, resorts, brown signalling, excursions. There's a lot of room. It is said here somewhere that this is what is owned by local self-government. But something can also be owned by the state. Article 18 defines the new Institute of the President of the Tourist Board through political duty. I don't think that's good. I've been listening these days to a whole series of arguments in favor of this thesis and I admit they have, these arguments have their weight. But a model like this can lead to a whole series of problems in the functioning of tourist communities. This will be seen first in the last part of the law when it comes to how the tourist community is disbanded and appointed by the Commissioner. In these circumstances, when directly elected mayors and mayors and mayors, when they assume all the powers that the headship has so far had to give another duty of this type is not good. Not only does it concentrate the power of these people who, let's not forget it first of all political people, political persons and must have absolutely no contact with tourism, nor with hospitality, nor with accompanying services, no experience, no ideas about it. We're putting them here now as a mandatory solution. It would be much better to apply an institute that is in an item lower which says about the presidents of tourist communities, which is that the mayors, mayors and mayors name the president of the tourist community. This gives them the opportunity to protect public interest from the order of professional, well-intentioned, well-intentioned people who will protect the public interest as just before, said counterpart Kapelli is actually a person at the head of the tourist community, but not necessarily the first people of the local community. How else will you replace the president of the tourist community? Not at all. And there you said that in some exceptional cases you would disband the bodies of the tourist community. Under this law, that's not possible. You can't disband the president of the tourist community. At some point, it's said if the president isn't elected. He wasn't elected at all. He's called. So, you're bringing yourself into a trap you don't need. Because as long as the president of the tourist community is in office, and he is, as long as he is elected mayor, mayor or mayor, the tourist community works. Because according to this law, when there is no director of the tourist office, the president of the tourist community, not only represents, but also represents. So it's a contradiction that you can avoid and you still have time. Because I repeat, a person like this cannot be replaced or called to account. If you would allow him to appoint a president, then you could also change him, or you could enlist the mayor, the mayor and the mayor to appoint a new person who will bear the burden of responsibility. Furthermore, the president of the tourist community, according to Article 18, calls for the meeting of the tourist community and calls for the chairmanship of the tourist council. The logical provision, however, in the law, not only of this, but also of some other regulations define the deadlines in which certain work should be carried out, such as the adoption of an annual work programme, the adoption of a financial plan, the adoption of a work report. These are mostly deadlines for local self-government budgets, and that is normal, but it is not normal to expect from the mayor, mayor or mayor, if they remain presidents that they will submit their time to the work of the tourist community, rather than vice versa. And it may occur to you that before Christmas you simply get sick, get flu and you miss the legally established deadline for holding a session of the tourist board and the assembly of the tourist community. It should, as there is now a model that has been first and foremost transferred to the statutes of the tourist communities that in cases where the president cannot chair the community bodies, it should be replaced by the oldest member of the assembly. That's not a bad solution, but it's temporary. And it can't lead to abuse. Furthermore, I am sure that you have a good reason why you suggest that a member, a member of the monitoring board of the tourist community actually appoints a higher level of organisation of the tourist community and why this control system is being introduced. Among other things, Article 21 repeats a provision which we have and in the current regulation, which is that the Minister will lay down the necessary conditions for professional training, work experience, language knowledge and other specific skills that must be met by persons in the tourist office. However, I would like to warn you and ask. So, you as Minister, or Minister of Tourism, are in the hands of an important instrument that can make life important to the tourist communities, whether or not you want to. Namely, an existing model requires directors of tourist communities for at least 3 years of working experience in tourism. You are certainly witnesses in the ministry that you have a series of problems throughout the continental part because that provision in the rulebook is interpreted to you in a way that does not take into account the accompanying industry. So, theoretically speaking, a night receptionist at the age of three and a day of work with a completed study can easily compete and get the post of director of the tourist community, and a person who has, not only a high professional training, but 10 or 12 years of employment in traffic, marketing or cultural events can not be the director. So here, please, when you adopt a rule that follows this law to liberalise that part and to enable, especially, the tourist communities of smaller towns and municipalities, that they can normally get their directors of tourist communities because this way on the labour market, I can't get anyone. Furthermore, in Article 32, it is noted that the tasks of the tourist community of municipalities or cities have been increased from 13, as far as they were in the current law on as many as 21 tasks. The people involved in this work have noticed that point 6, this is the development of strategic and development plans for tourism at the level of the municipality or city, indeed, in favour of tourist communities. However, these have not prevented the possibility of such strategic plans still being brought by units of local self-government because they too have a legal obligation, i.e. the possibility. It wouldn't be a bad idea to harmonize those two things so that we don't have the tourist community bringing in one strategic plan, and the city council the other. We have cases, and for that you know well, not so far from Zagreb where the local community and the tourist community are actually at war. This should be avoided by harmonising certain obligations, and one of them is the adoption of strategic plans. Furthermore, when it comes to tourism society, it is not quite clear this way. Namely, here is a formulated branch of the tourist office, not a tourist society because the concept of society involves society, or more people, and as it is set, is actually a model that tries to recognise the existing state, which is the fact that in many places we have organised tourism societies, but tourist societies are not "one man band". These are local communities of people of goodwill who have gathered to promote the tourism interests of their own region. Once upon a time, it could have been organised as a legal person, so in the meantime it changed its role, but the fact that as it was written it was not a society, but a branch because society has no legal personality, no budget, no body management, therefore it is only actually an employee of the city's tourist office. Furthermore, in the tourist community of the area, the question is, what are we going to do with the areas where we now have so-called. Voluntary tourist communities? Otherwise, Mr. Chairman, as far as I know, this is a united debate and is measured differently, not individually by law. Thank you very much. For example, we now have in one region in three municipalities, or cities have tourist communities run by volunteers. In fact, this law should have set up a certain line for them, among other things, and told them within what time period they must either be established under this law as a professional structure or agreed with those in the region on the establishment of a regional tourist community. Furthermore, this is not just about islands and rivieras. Don't forget that we have some areas that are simply administratively divided by Croatia scattered between several counties. How old is Lika County? How long is Turopolje County? How many counties are Moslavina in? How many counties is Croatia Zagorje? These are just some possible examples. As regards this deadline for the adoption of the annual work programme and the financial plan, it is somewhat illogical that a non-profit organisation, which is a tourist organisation, has special conditions than those conditions that otherwise rule and apply to non-profit organisations according to our existing regulations. Namely, the tourist community as a non-profit association, i.e. a non-profit organisation, or an organisation that conducts business and bookkeeping under the rules on non-profit organisations, is obliged to submit a financial report to the competent authority of the state administration, or to the State audit, by 28 or 29 years after Wednesday, February. It is not clear here why the tourist council must submit proposals by 31 October for a new plan to someone who has to deliver 31. 12, and then there it is said that a member of the congregation has to get it eight days before the deadline, to bring it in. Perhaps this deadline from October 31st is actually too high, if it is already said that the tourist community must establish its work plan and financial plan by 31st. 12., then it is understood, especially with this clause on calling the Assembly itself that it must be done at least 8 days before the level of the tourist council. Therefore, Article 63, which also states that the Assembly of the Tourist Community is due every year by the end of March of the current year to produce an annual financial report for the previous year. It seems to me that this is a new deadline, when it is known that the state audit must be submitted by the end of February, then it is impossible for the assembly to change it all if it wants to. It's a given document. Either he adopts it before the end of February, or there's no influence on him. Furthermore, that is where we now return to this issue of the president. In Article 70, he said, "If a supervised tourist community is found to be acting contrary to the provisions of this law, the Ministry or the Croatian Tourist Board may order the supervised tourist community to launch a procedure to resolve the directors of the tourist office, president and members of the body of the supervised tourist community.". The president of this kind of formula you can't, you can't get rid of him. Furthermore, Article 71 said: "If he does not elect a president in the municipality, the city and the county."there is no such thing, because he was not chosen, he was appointed. This is mostly what would be good, which should be pointed out in this law, if you allow just a few more words, when it comes to the House Tax Act. It's also one law that we've had so far which little and different determines the question of schedules, and also defines who actually are payment bonds. Article 3 states: "Citizens who provide accommodation services in a household or a rural household for all persons who are staying in that household or in a rural household", it is a little awkward for you because it may happen to you that the owner of a rural household who is in the status of a craftsman has a working man who works on his winehouse, in his kitchen, in his business plant and who sleeps, or has a settled accommodation, because it is a settlement 20 km away from his town, it is such shifts where he can work late, and will you then treat him as a person who has to pay a residence tax, probably not, but this is how it turns out to be. Furthermore, in Article 4, we talk about holiday home owners and members of their family, if the holiday house is the original old family house acquired by an heir who had the last residence in the tourist municipality or town when nights in that house. What does the old family home mean originally? Someone, playing with building styles, and a hundred years ago, could have built an eclectic structure that you can't imagine under the original building, an old original family house, or actually thought, not in a style and cultural sense, but in the fact that someone built a house on the naked ground in time to live in it. Well, then you're asked what's wrong with the other heirs. Is it just this one person who inherited the inheritance, and if she had otherwise arranged an inheritance order with her brothers or sisters, or an inheritance of real estate, in what way does she have the right and others do not? Or we move on, it's said, so it's foreclosed to the benefits of people whose last living parent died of age in his own house, but if by chance a month before he died because of the need for care he moved to a son or daughter in another town and signed up to be able to achieve health care and die with them from this story. Furthermore, in Article 8, I ask to clarify the meaning of a straight line, whether it is daughters, sons, fathers, and mothers, or it is a horizontal line, because this is how it turns out that everyone is freed except for children and parents, those who own the house. In Article 9, in paragraph 2, I'm just asking, are hunting, mountaineering homes, reconnaissance camp and what about the client, how we formulate the client, since we know that a few dates a year can come under the influence of that 0.5-promised law, although it's officially abolished, then it's healthier to sleep in a client's night than to go home, so I'm wondering if we're obliged to pay a residence tax? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u21977	On behalf of the SDP Club, distinguished colleague, Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u21978	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. There's always a reason why certain laws are passed, or the laws we have so far are changed, so there's always a reason. Or time has passed some of the provisions of the old law, so in life some other things should happen, so that it should be regulated by novels or new laws so that the life we live will also be embroiled into these laws. But it is therefore very interesting how this set of tourism laws is obtained in a way that those affected by this law, those to whom this law has some kind of reprecision, have no idea that these three laws are in the process of this Parliament. Like what? The tourist community, except for the Croatian Tourist Board, and she, as far as I heard, didn't know two days before this came to this Parliament's agenda what kind of law it would be. The tourist communities of cities, municipalities and counties did not discuss or give their opinion, but they also did not give their opinion either to the Croatian Employers' Association, which is also the law in this time that is ahead of us, and we all say the crisis year is very much concerned by this law. So I would first ask, Mr. Vice President, you can tell me, you are a member of that presidency, perhaps not you personally, but the Presidency of the Croatian Parliament, and you are probably a member, if I speak well, of that presidency, you determine what is on the agenda of this Croatian Parliament. And I guess that when you set the agenda probably, maybe not you personally, but you probably have someone who then reads what will come on the agenda so it wouldn't be as embarrassing as we now get this set of three of these tourist laws on the agenda for discussion. And you have probably used yourself to suggest to you those who have read this law, that because of the Law on residence tax, which has elements of compliance with European Union legislation, that this law should therefore be passed and those laws, other laws relating to it, should be adopted by an urgent procedure in one reading. And now I just don't understand who's reading it well, whether I'm reading it right or not, but I'm just going to start off with this residence tax bill that all three laws have come into this parliamentary procedure for an emergency procedure because it's supposed to be all about compliance with the European Union. And in this law, I will now read that the Law on Tourist Communities and the Promotion of Croatian Tourism, somewhere at the end of the argument, the Law on residence tax, the Law on Memberships in Tourist Communities, are a package of laws regulating the system of tourist communities and are interlinked. And since the Household Court Act is a law that complies with European Union regulations, it is necessary to adopt all three laws together in order to ensure the regular functioning of the tourism community system. I can understand that because of one law, but these two that are related to that law, we can then talk about the way we bring it, that it is an emergency procedure. However, a few paragraphs above where it says it is because of the European Union, the legislator or the one who has written, but the one who has not read it writes, the residence tax and the law refers to the residence tax as the income of the tourist communities is not particularly regulated by the regulations of the European Community. Now I'm asking if you or anyone is proposing the agenda, you think we're all autistic here, not to read, not to know. Try to explain to me, if it is said that it is necessary to agree with the European Union, with EU legislation, but it is therefore argued that what we agree on with the laws of the European Union is simply not particularly regulated by European Community regulations. I don't understand which, by emergency procedure, regulations are in line with all these three laws. I just don't get it. It is obvious that under the agreement of European laws with our legal regulation, everything and I wonder what the reasons are and why these three laws that are relevant to something we swear, which is our tourism, which is one of the most important industries in Croatia at this moment and most vital, we are passing these three laws by emergency procedure even though we have said on the board that something that is so important for tourism deserves if nothing else, at least for it to enter into another reading so that those to whom this law applies, which are primarily tourist communities, economic operators and others, have the right or the opportunity to manifest itself and to express its opinion that this law would then be applicable, more appropriate to what it will serve. But since that's the case, obviously most of them have raised their hand to be an emergency procedure, I don't understand why, but if that's the case, let's just try it, then here's the tax to go through some of the things that these three laws treat. Let us, of course, stick to this issue of residence tax which is due to which we are bringing it, allegedly by emergency procedure, and this law has in some way been decided to determine the bonds of payment of the residence tax, payment and payment of the residence tax, registration and check-in obligations to the tourist community, criminal provisions etc., etc. The consequences that law will result in more effective payment and payment of residence tax, more rational and more efficient spending of residence tax funds. Nowhere, reading the old law, reading the new law, nowhere but nowhere else, in no article are the consequences that should be these two, more effective charges and more rational, more efficient spending, not exactly treated so that we get it in some way effectively, however. Let me just say that on a small example, where persons staying on board are treated by Articles 13 and 14 and it is said that the tourist tax will be paid in a flat-rate amount, that the boaters are obliged to pay the tourist tax to the tourist community before the vehicle leaves. All five, I agree that it is necessary to mark the tourist community that the form and content and time of validity of the vignette will be prescribed by the minister responsible for tourism. When and how, it will be when it is. But in that same law, there is, in the light of that law, something which is a little bit incomprehensible because it says that Articles 13 and 14 of the prescribed obligations mean that they pay to tourist communities, but it is therefore said that the owner of the vessel for himself and the persons staying on that vessel are resident tax paid in a flat-rate amount and that by buying vignet in the port captainship, prior to the departure of the vehicle. Now I wonder where this German or French boatman will pay that residence fee under this law, to the tourist community, so he'll look for it on land, or he'll pay this to the port captain. And I don't understand why when it's passed the law simply doesn't say the vinjet will be bought at the port captainship, the port captain will forward the money to the tourist community or who needs it. And this is how it's brought into doubt who needs to be paid, who's going to do it, and in any case, I don't know how a stranger is going to do it. But let's go back to one more illogicality that I don't understand what it's going to look like in an operational sense. Of course, then, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will give the authority to determine a portion of the amount of tourist tax paid to the special account of the tourist community by using the collected funds for development projects and programmes for the creation of new tourist programmes in undeveloped tourist areas. I agree, and I support. But legal and natural persons, sailors and people who provide overnight accommodation services on a water facility, so here I'm also talking about the sailors I was talking about earlier, who will buy a vignette, have a 5-member or 6-member family on board. They are said to be charged in a special account, and 50% of these funds are returned to where traffic is being made in nautical tourism. Try to explain to me, I don't know, I don't have a boat, I don't have a yacht, I don't sail, I don't navigate, when a stranger logs into Mali Lošinj and then the road starts I don't know the Kornati islands so it gets to Dubrovnik, how someone will determine where the tax returns where the tourist traffic of that boatman is achieved. It's really unclear how it's going to come back, whether Lošinj went where he bought the vignette, whether on the Kornati islands where he stayed most of the time. I think that this is how we make laws that aren't even readable, let alone that are not operational is quite unserious because it seems to me that in this way we're just making life more complicated for ourselves and that ultimately it won't be much use and it won't be achieved that purpose that I just read earlier. Or in Article 6 of this same law, persons who prove that the right to be exempt from payment of a residence tax accept that, i.e. to pay a reduced amount of residence tax by corresponding documents, by working contract, they can prove it, but then why you write this "similarly". That "similar" is incomprehensible, vague. What can it be? My confirmation I'm gonna give someone, I don't know whose confirmation. What does that mean, "like"? "Such" is not defined, and when something is not defined something similar can be anything and can be anything. And if it is already said about those who sail on ships, it means in this kind of tourism, exceptionally from Article 3 of the Law, residence tax is not paid by children up to 12 years of age, persons with physical disabilities etc. And I don't see any reason why these reliefs wouldn't have those people sailing on board so that even those kids who are there with their parents can also pay that less tax. It's number one, so the law that we're here for has no legal opportunity to come into the first reading, and our proposal is to enable a second reading in any case so that all three laws can be useful and that they can be operational. I repeat, the proposal on memberships in tourist communities, with the final bill is something that my court should have at least at least when you wrote it, you should have gotten some sort of explanation or suggestion of those to whom it most applies. First of all, it refers to those gathered in the Croatian Employers' Association. I think they will be the most damaged by this law, but as they are prescribed what they should pay for and how they should pay for it, it would be good to define something, to also ask them what it will do and how it will affect not only the development of Croatian tourism but their positioning on the international market and what it costs them. For example, if someone calculated how much it would cost companies because we don't have a comparison of what was in the old law, we don't have a comparison of what it would look like in this new law. As we are running out of time, I will try only then and about the Law on Tourist Communities and promoting Croatian tourism, with the Final Proposal of the Law, only a few things to say that have also been solved neither scream nor pass, not at all. First, it is rude to write a new law where it is said that by the time the new law is passed, the legality of the work of tourist communities will increase. That's rude. It implies that so far the tourist communities have not worked legally. I claim that everyone finds audits and supervision of the tourism ministry, HTZ state television does not give the right to treat tourist communities in this way from now on. It is also unclear, here colleagues also spoke earlier, which means managing public tourist infrastructure on a day-to-day management by a unit of local, or regional self-government. We think it is necessary to explain specifically the concept of public tourism infrastructure management, because only within 6 months will the Minister of Tourism adopt regulations that will define governance activities, public tourist infrastructure, and I read at the beginning that will be given by the unit of local self-government. And what if they are not given when you determine who they are, because it is quite unclear who they are, so if they do not give them what they are then. You're going to force them? I'm afraid the local self-government units are going to give little infrastructure to have someone else master and manage it. It is also unclear what it means to promote a tourist destination at the level of the county, independently or through associated advertising, because promotional activities on the foreign market are carried out by the tourist community of the municipality or the city together with the tourist community of the county on which it is submerged, and only exceptionally independent of the basis of the special decision of the tourism council of the tourist community of the county. Therefore, and in Article 2(2), the legislator provided for the obligation to promote promotional activities in the country and abroad of these small tourist communities, so it is not clear how the tourist community of places, municipalities or cities will promote their territory abroad because in any case few are given the right to go there, then they are prohibited in this way. And let me tell you, I'm running out of time to say it. Oversight, surveillance in this case says both the ministry and supervision of the work of tourist communities will be done by the ministry and the tourist community. But who will oversee the Croatian Tourist Community except the Minister and the Ministry, it is not said. I suggest that then this Croatian Parliament also has some insight into what it is doing in the Croatian tourist community that at least it is appropriate to be similar or equal to these legal solutions that are being said here. And tell me or equal to these legal decisions that have been made here. And tell me in all of these fees if I remember correctly, and somewhere I remember, we've singled out 1% for the Red Cross. You've obviously forgotten him here. That means we don't stand out for the Red Cross anymore or still remain the one under the old law, or we'll find out by the new law that we're paying 1% for the Red Cross. Thank you very much. Yeah. For this reason, I will say to the SDP representative's club that we should have been pushed into something that should have gone into another procedure with an incoherent explanation that it is because of Europe which is not true, because the legislator said that this is not treated by the European Union and that as much as possible by those to whom this law applies, we will not support this proposal until it comes to another reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u21979	Thank you, colleague. You have certainly studied the Rules of Procedure on questions you have asked, and you know that Article 37 of the Presidency sets out a draft agenda. It was then found in Article 159 that there could also be an addition to the agenda during the sitting. The addition as well as the basic agenda will be voted on. may be a proposal for the urgency of the debate, i.e. a debate in one reading and adoption. It's all been done. That's what the vote was about today. Therefore, I mean when it comes to how something is brought into line with the Rules of Procedure. We have applications to correct the allegations. Honored colleague of parliament, Sunday's Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u21980	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I'm correcting two false allegations, Mr. Denona's representative, who says that the text of these laws is shameful and that the laws are also unreadable. Mr. Denona, it's not exactly one or the other. I, as mayor of the city, who is developing towards the city in tourist activity, express my satisfaction with such a quality package of tourism laws between which one is in line with European laws that will definitely contribute to better, rational use of funds, urban resources within tourist communities, and also contribute to the quality of the tourist product. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u21981	Thank you very much. To correct the allegations, the distinguished representative, Gary Capelli, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u21982	Honored Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Mr Denona said he did not see the consequences that the law would result in, where this more effective collection of rationalisation is, etc. I'd say she's only in two copies. In Article 19, it also works in Article 20. Thank you very much. One of the copies. There's more.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u21983	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party, distinguished colleague Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u21984	Mr. Vice President, MPs, MPs and Mr. Secretary of State. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party will support the Proposal for a Law on Tourist Communities and the Promotion of Croatian Tourism, the Final Proposal of the Law on Memberships in Tourist Communities, and the Final Proposal of the Law on Tourist Taxation. But before I say a few sentences about how we at the HSS Representatives Club are looking at these proposed laws. I'd like to tell Mr. Minister to congratulate you and your associates on an extremely good tourist season. Since we see much stronger and visited destinations both at European and global level, they have failed to keep their guests. I think that, of course, the Ministry of Tourism together with the Government of the Republic of Croatia has taken concrete and timely measures in this crisis, a financial crisis that certainly did not bypass Croatia either. What we would certainly like to point out is that tourism contributes with 20% of gross national income and can certainly be considered as one of the important parts of the economy from that point of view. Certainly, it should also be said that if we want that 20% of the GDP coming from tourism to the next year, that increased tourism promotion should be promoted in foreign markets and that there should be a number of other different measures, and above all they must be based on the cooperation of the public and private tourism sector in order to repeat in 2009 the results of this tourist year, i.e. tourist results, but in order to be more successful and can also achieve an increase in the number of tourists, which means that we expect these measures that the Ministry of Tourism will implement to be more aggressive and active, as well as to include both the public and private sectors on the foreign market, but also on the domestic market, and to join the funds of state tourist institutions and tourism companies in order to truly repeat the recorded successes. Of course, it is quite clear that if we haven't changed the existing legislation for 15 years, that in these 15 years, very much has changed in Croatia. The trends have changed, the territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia has changed, the perception of tourism itself, the organisational forms have changed, other laws that have very much implications for these laws that we are talking about today. For this reason, the fact is that the Law on Tourist Communities and the Promotion of Croatian Tourism and the Law on Memberships in Tourist Communities and the Law on residence tax should also be brought into line with other legal regulations and these laws should meet today's challenges. Of course, what should be said clearly is the problem of Croatian tourism, which is the lack of vertical and horizontal communication between the private and public sectors. There are, of course, many media ventures that remain isolated because there is not enough strong and mutual coordination. Of course, the situation is much better today than it was a few years ago. But the process of communication between tourism entities needs to be strengthened. Here we see exactly the key role of the Ministry of Tourism itself. Why does it matter? Because, through tourism, people perceive the country and the nation, and tourism also plays one of the key roles in sustainable development, which is certainly imperative today. It is an industry that touches the public and private sphere and only if those two spheres are combined then can we say that tourism in Croatia is certainly doomed to success. We at HSS think it is no longer enough to introduce ourselves at the fair, to look for new trends, to be innovative, to be creative, to be original, and to do so in any case requires people and to have extremely good communication. That is why we think that these laws are very welcome, that they are desirable, that they aim to eliminate certain shortcomings because we know, for example, that the Croatian Tourist Board has spent most of the money on marketing so far, that offices around the world have opened up even though trends are being recorded to grow on line booking and there we can say that the example is Adriatica.net and others. This is why we see that new products should be directed and developed, and we think that this proposal for a package of laws does, because the Croatian Tourist Board focuses on product development and receives a new mission, which is a responsibility for the state of quality. First of all, we think of the importance of developing the tourism infrastructure itself, which has proved to be an imperative and has not been spent enough time on this. In Croatia, the average burden on the coast is 560 thousand people a day, which is a large number of people. We also record 56 million overnight stays a year. Tourists in Croatia spent 6 billion euros and also on the other hand we have data on 900 thousand beds, so it seems to us that it is very important in the context of this debate and mention one segment, which is the introduction of a carrying capacity, i.e. to finally establish the capacity to carry out what Croatia needs, how much Croatia can bear, and what we still have to do from the infrastructure and so far is not organised. I believe that ministers that the tourism development strategy that you are making will provide answers to some of these questions because it seems important to us in the HSS Club to actually put tourism for sustainable development and keep these extremely good results that have been recorded over the past years, but especially this year, which is a significant success in view of the crisis we have found ourselves in. It is our opinion in the HSS that the tourist communities and they have 330 in Croatia must take care of the interests of all, therefore not just the hotelers. Of course, in the interests of hotelers, caterers, craftsmen, travel agencies, and citizens in a city or some place. And so far there have been a lot of complaints that it is not so, or that mainly the tourist communities represented hoteliers because the hoteliers did the greatest work and filled their budget. We believe that mayors or mayors will best reconcile the interests of all, so this role given to them by the new law, which is to be in some way the main persons in the tourist communities and we think that this provision will lose an alibi for the development of tourism, which has often been the case so far. Therefore, this additional responsibility of the mayor, Commissioner, when it comes to the strategy and promotion of tourism must certainly be given its place, and this package of laws provides for it. The law adopts another important paper so that the tourist communities are naturally non-profit legal entities and are unable to deal with economic activities give them the opportunity if local authorities give them to manage or leave the infrastructure in their city to manage the infrastructure and can take over. This means that in some cases tourist communities could manage public beaches, ski resorts, swimming pools, and that would be good because of the fact that finally various privates who do not do the job well have adequate competition. And we think the law finds good solutions in that segment. In addition, the tourist community will be able to organise various events and sell souvenirs and even arrange trips if there are no travel agencies in the centre. What is known concerns the financing of tourist communities, which were mainly financed from residence fees and membership fees that are due to pay both businesses and banks, and craftsmen. From these sources, 455.7 million kuna was collected last year. It's a quarter of it in Istrian County. After that comes the Primorje-Gorski County with 75.2 million kuna and Zagreb where 73.2 million kuna is collected. The law stipulates that, as so far, 65% of these funds belong to the tourist community of the municipality or city on whose territory the income is collected, 10% gets the county tourist community and 25% Croatian tourist community. The new news is that the tourist communities in which the collection of less than 200 thousand kuna on residence fees and the same amount on membership fees do not have to give that 25% of the money to the Croatian tourist community but are obliged to 20 % to be paid into the budget of the county tourist community and there remains 80% of the funds that we think are extremely important because it will make it important to make it easier for them to function. And what I want to say in conclusion is that we in HSS really expect this package of tourism laws as well as the laws that are passed in agriculture and the budget that we are going to talk about tomorrow to finally give us one space to connect green and blue fields. This has been said for many years, but there is no concrete indication of the desired results on the ground. I have already said several times on behalf of the HSS club that we in the HSS think that this crisis may be a chance to place a Croatian agricultural product in tourism because tourists spend 6 billion euros annually in Croatia. What we expect in HSS and what we would certainly like to see is that in those 6 billion euros spent by tourists in Croatia, most of that money is related to Croatian products, not Chinese souvenirs, beef from Argentina, milk powder from Bosnia and Herzegovina, vegetables from Spain or Greece, and so on or that the caterers simply did not have that adequate contact between the producers of agricultural products themselves and people who are engaged in hotel and catering are reaching out for large trade chains, consumables, lids, marbles or similar. So we think this is an excellent opportunity, that this package of tourism laws goes for the fact that Croatian product really is better placed in tourism. We believe in HSS that our producers can also produce enough quality agricultural products that meet standards and are certainly better than what is very often placed on our guests, and we also believe that this has been confirmed on the Days of Croatian Tourism in Opatija that our hosts and hotelers are also ready to give that hand to the community and that they are ready, with adequate government intervention, to link what we are constantly talking about and that is a blue and green field. Ministers wish you and your associates a lot of success because next year certainly brings many challenges not only for Croatian tourism, but above all for Croatian tourism. The HSS Club will support this package of laws and I believe that these proposals that we have made quite seriously on the integration of agriculture, the integration of tourism, the opening of the possibility that several hotels on the Adriatic are being placed and organic products produced from our rural households and agricultural products, that they will certainly find understanding in the Ministry of Tourism, but also in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and that we will see concrete results in this respect next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u21985	Thank you. We have one correction. Mr. Representative Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u21986	Dear Mr. President, I'd like to correct only one false allegation, I won't say there are more but here are my colleagues, a distinguished colleague, of course by thanking her minister, has claimed that this is public tourist infrastructure management something that is very good. She even listed some segments that should be public tourist infrastructure. It's just not true. This is in Article 10, because what is considered public tourist infrastructure will be prescribed by the Minister of Special Regulation. Even the minister doesn't know what it is yet, but he's going to prescribe it with a special rule, so it's not exactly so because a special rule by a minister can prescribe anything. And that's why I'm saying that the laws like this are inadmissible because it's supposed to be in the law. What is legally regulated to know and to know precisely if we want to have quality laws in Croatia rather than depend on what the minister will prescribe with his special rule. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u21987	Thank you. At 16,04, it was time to sign up for 10 minutes. Now he's Mr. Representative Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u21988	Dear President, Ministers, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Well, it is generally good to adopt after 15 years the new Law on Tourist Communities and the promotion of Croatian tourism but the question of whether in this law we gave the best proposals we could. My opinion is that we could have done better, and that's what I was talking about on the Tourism Committee. Instead of trying to have as many people as possible in tourist communities as possible and who have experience in tourism, we do the opposite. In Article 18 of this proposal, the law states that the duties of the president of the city's tourist community, the municipality is being exercised by the mayor or the mayor and the duties of the president of the tourist community and the mayor's county. It's all just not professional and quality. It is called politicizing, and I believe that the mayors, mayors and mayors will not be able to carry out this function in a quality way because most of them have no experience because they will certainly not have time and will to perform this function in a quality way. The tourist community will be a controversial function for which it will not be sufficiently pawned, and we will certainly not gain quality in the work of tourist communities. The following proposal is that the Director of the Tourist Board or of the Office, other than the fulfilment of the specific conditions laid down in Article 21(5) of this Act, must have a professional examination for working in the Tourist Office. It also states that a person who performs the job of a tourist office director who has 10 years of employment on tourism jobs does not have to have a professional exam. And what are the jobs in tourism that give the person the right to be in the workplace without a professional examination? It is not good that someone has to take a professional exam for the same job and another person 10 years older or more experienced does not have to pass that professional exam. You are also aware that there is a tourist community "North Zagorje" in Varazdin County, which was formed by the rounding of the tourist communities of the two towns of Ivanca, Leposlava and two municipalities of Bednja and Ekleonika, and the tourist community of the cities and municipalities above have crossed or established tourism societies that now operate in the same areas as before the tourist community while the tourist community "North Zagorje" operates in the area of the northwestern part of the Varazdin County. Tourist companies are financed by the amount from membership fees and residence fees. Tourist taxes are at an annual level in this region of 6 thousand kuna while the only main income from membership fees of about 120 thousand kuna. In this law you propose to keep this income from membership fees and residence fees in 50% of the amount in tourist society and to distribute the rest to the Croatian Tourist Board and the Tourist Board of the Varazdin County. Do you think that these tourist societies will be able to survive with half the amount of the community budget anyway? They are not in the same position as the tourism community at sea and on the continent. By such law, we will destroy 70% of tourism communities and societies in the continental part of Croatia. Article 21 speaks of a regulation that prescribes specific conditions regarding professional training, work experience, language skills and other specific skills that must be met by persons in the tourist office and brought by the minister. It is not good to wait with that rule or not to prescribe in the law a time limit for the adoption of such a rule, because if it is in a hurry with this law that goes according to an emergency procedure, I consider that it is also a rule that prescribes special conditions. It is also not good to distinguish between persons who will act as director of the tourist community. The law stipulates that persons who have the right professional training and at least 10 years of employment on tourism jobs in this case do not have to have the expert exam I was talking about. And at the end of my presentation, I must say that I am not satisfied with the whole bill and that I have submitted several amendments and I sincerely hope that the promoter will accept some of these proposals and in order to make the quality work of tourist communities both at sea and in the continental part of the country. Furthermore, the Final Proposal for a Law on residence tax has several proposals that I believe will not contribute to improving the work of tourist communities but rather to the contrary. I'll list which ones are that and try to explain it. Article 3 refers to who pays the residence tax. Among other things, according to this new law, this new law will be paid by the owners of a house or a holiday apartment in a tourist municipality or a city that is not an accommodation within the meaning of this law for itself and by all persons who are staying in that house or apartment. The reason is that the owners of houses and holiday apartments are not residents of the municipality or the city where the property is located, and the damage to the property is to meet their own tourist needs for which they have estimated that they can satisfy them most fully using the general tourist services and benefits of the tourist municipality or the city in which the property is located. Accordingly, like other visitors of the tourist municipality and the city, they must pay a tourist tax. It is unacceptable for house owners and apartments to pay all other fees, communal fees and taxes to charge a residence tax to any extent or percentage. In addition, Article 4(4) of this proposal refers to members of the family, and point 7 of the family members. Later in Article 8, it is listed who is considered family members within the meaning of this law, but I have not seen any explanation of who they are or may be the same, but in that case it should also be written in the law. It also states in Article 19 that out of the paid residence fees paid by passengers who use waterfront accommodation services, only 40% of the resources will be paid to tourist communities in whose areas tourist traffic is achieved. I think it is wrong for the Croatian tourist community to raise 50% of the amount of money from the abovementioned tourist fees, but to pay at least 70% of the funds to the tourist communities because they also use large funds to improve the conditions of development and promotion of nautical tourism, not just the Croatian Tourist Board. Article 21(5) sets out strictly one person in charge of carrying out a list of persons staying in an area. If this is so strictly determined, it means that the tourist community in the office should only have one person employed on the registration of guests, which is simply impossible. I'll give you one example. In the area of the Varazdin County of 7 tourist communities in them 5 only 1 person works because there are no financial resources for additional employment. It is feasible in tourist communities that have large budgets, but on the continent it is impossible to achieve it. With such decisions, we will destroy a large number of tourist communities. I hope that's not your goal. And at the end of my presentation on residence fees, I would like to know what are the criteria for how it is described in the explanation the collected funds from residence fees are allocated purposely to development projects and programmes for the creation of new tourism programmes in undeveloped tourist areas. In the Law on Memberships of Tourist Communities, I would only mention one problem. In Article 12, I quote: “The legal and physical person pays the membership fee in the area of the municipality, the city or Zagreb where he is established, and for business units in the area of the municipality or the city where he is the headquarters of a business unit. The problem is that the Tax Law states that certain entities are obliged to pay taxes according to the place where the company is registered, and it has often happened and is still happening that the tax administration has not taken care of where a particular branch of an entity is and whether it paid the membership fee in the right place. This is how it happens that large companies with large plants in Varazdin County especially do not pay the fees to our tourist communities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u21989	Thank you. Mr. Representative Sima Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u21990	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, I don't know any of us, and I think that in one way or another, we've been tied or interested in one important activity, as is important for our country, then we expect that when these three laws come before us, first of all, in certain calculations, that is, how you want to see whether these laws and those solutions offered by this law will contribute to the improvement of tourism activity, that is, I would dare to show myself and establish order in that activity or order more than it has. So let's say one question. I'm interested in whether or not to charge a stay tax, I read here that even up to 30% have unreported guests. Whether these laws will allow, for example, that residence tax is better charged or whether these laws will prevent individual tourist entities from manipulating the funds they receive from the fees for months. Then if you have this kind of inflation, that's what they earn, and that's how they damage the wider community, so if you want the tourist activity. Actually, I have to say, I'm disappointed with the content of these laws. Why? Because when you compare them with that proposal that was in this House, it seems to me that at the end of 2003 you will see that these solutions contained in these proposals, especially in the Law on Tourist Communities, are actually no better. Let's even say for me from those 2003 solutions that were dropped, some things that would be more effective for improving and promoting Croatian tourism where and where better and for me, according to my humble assessment than the existing solutions are now offered. Now. First of all, I think it's inadmissible, and that's what some colleagues used to say before me that in fact, a set of laws like this really mattered to me very quickly. I don't understand why it's important to pass these laws by the end of this year or bring this Friday when we know that their application will go much later and it will actually take a bigger period of time and adjustment, at least in one part. Then why haven't we tried in a certain way to include all the entities of the especially tourist community, so if you want a certain part of the tourist staff who are interested in the solutions offered in this law. So, right now, you're going to start with some conjecture, and there's this thing that's not right when it breaks over your knee. Therefore, I would ask if the applicant is not already interested in prolonging this whole story, at least pay attention to the amendments that the Committee on Tourism has submitted, because I think at least one part of the shortcomings in this set of laws, so these amendments are being resolved. Now what bothers me first is in these laws, and I say especially in the Tourist Community Act. So the rule is that any problem is best solved by people in this problem, or by experts. Well then, I expected that the intensity of these laws would actually go towards greater professionalisation in the sense that this problem would be dealt with by experts, and that this problem, in fact, the issue of tourism and tourism activities would be brought down among those people who need to act and carry out certain activities to make tourism more successful. A team earlier to point out that we are expected to have a likely turbulent time in tourism because of recession and everything else. I am not convinced that Croatian tourism will stay at the level of this year for next year. I'm afraid of a more significant fall, but let's play it right now. So, it seems to me that these laws are going towards, so I would dare say to one type of centralization of the whole story, to add more politicization. For the simple reason I could take a few examples, some colleagues spoke of it. We've been listening to this story about mayors, mayors and mayors who become presidents in office, presidents of congregations of tourist communities. I personally don't think that's a good solution. On the other hand, you have, why is not good, this is one argument, on the other hand, you have the opportunity to have the supervision of the tourist community carried out only from the central, or from Zagreb, so I am doing the Ministry and the Croatian Tourist Board and that de facto they can disband the assembly of the tourist community, there are reasons why they can do it, but at the same time the question is what is with the president of the tourist community. I mean, what kind of situation he's in right now is like a person who's chosen by the people and where this congregation is disbanded. I think there, look out, and maybe somehow what you're disbanding would go away, but then name the Commissioner. Now, what is this commissioner? What role does he play in the congregation? What's his relationship with the former or current president? Okay, with the director of the office and so on and so on. So it seems to me that, without need, we have entered into a story that has not been brought to an end and is not resolved because since you, I cannot interpret it differently, but when it comes to the president of the tourist community, in fact, that it will come to a political story in one way or another, and that is not good. Or, say, I don't know when you're talking about the president, or the director of the office. Now you see, that's when and why he is in conflict of interest. What about other people, or employees, if you want officials within this tourist community who may be in conflict of interest? Here, I'm interested in whether the president of the tourist community can be in conflict of interest? You got it. Here, let's say, if he's in conflict of interest, let's say, Mr. Cappelli could never be mayor because as such he's scheduled to be president of the tourist community, he's dealing with something of a tourist activity, he can't be who he is. So it seems to me that you can't just put the director in one position, the president in the other and so on and so on. If I tried to shorten the story when it comes to the Law on Tourist Communities, I think a series of ambiguities, especially those I was talking about, would be dealt with the following way. Since there are different tourist products in Croatia, as there are different types of tourism, there are different forms of interest in tourism. I don't know why it didn't go to a wider procedure in this sphere and try to categorize the tourist communities in a certain way, and one guy was a community, I don't know in a big city like Dubrovnik and Opatija otherwise would be, I don't know, on Mljet, and yet the third guy would be somewhere in Slavonia. And then there might actually be some things that are probably listed here in the law that would be worth one smaller form or a smaller level of organized so that tourist community, but others would not be worth it again. So I think it went into this business to actually be fulfilled, to satisfy some form. How to define, and to get back to activity, it seems very important to me. So how do you define this activity of the tourist community? In an article on what the tourist community is doing, I am interested, among other things, in souvenirs, monographs, and so on, in fact, in what does that mean? Because again depending on the environment where this tourist community works, where there's a similar thing can be, I don't know from selling ferry tickets because there's nowhere to buy a ferry ticket, but it can be a sale of plane tickets, even though it's not supposed to work for me. So it seems to me that a whole series of undefined things are listed in this law. Here, I can only finally express my belief that the promoter will, in good faith, understand those amendments that we discussed on the Tourism Committee on two occasions, as well as all these proposals, because I think it is in everyone's best interest to get the best solutions from the problems that these laws deal with, not just because they are waiting for us, as I have said in my mind the difficult times in tourism, but for the simple reason. In fact, these laws can be made by me at least one motivational story for tourism activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u21991	Thank you, too. Two corrections. First, Mr. Luke Denon. Here you go. Replica. Did they have a replica or something?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u21992	Replica, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u21993	There you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u21994	Well, of course, you're absolutely right when you claim that these laws, too, but look back at one in particular they're not defined. And that is why we were about to go into another reading to try out those to whom this law refers to trying to define some of the ambiguities that the new law puts on the market again. Because if it is claimed that the work of the Supervisory Board is mainly about the acceptance of financial reports that produce professional services, this body does not in practice have any effect on the work and operation of the tourist community. Then it needs to be lifted, if that's what it says. But on the other hand, it is said that there is also control by the ministry, surveillance where a special body will be set up by the ministry, and the Croatian Tourist Board to control the work and regularity of the work of tourist communities. I don't think that makes any sense, so let's get these monitoring committees out of the way and let's keep them out of business if they don't do anything like that. Also, for example, in this law it is claimed that, I will not talk about the mayors, about the mayors and about who, about the mayors. Here is Mr. Minister under this law you are the President of the Tourist Board, the President of the Assembly and the President of the Tourist Council. Well, I think you're in a bit of a conflict of interest, because cadiya judges and cadiya, as I would explain, and you're the assembly, both the president of the assembly and the president of the tourist council. But also hypothetically, I say hypothetically, the reasons why the tourist community can be disbanded are here, so illegal work that I'm not saying it now, probably not going to be, but it says the rest of the work. Is it hypothetical, Mr. Minister, that if most members of the Croatian Tourist Board find themselves not alone to be self-critical and something from the domain itself, they will try to replace you because you are responsible. That means hypothetically you have to change yourself. So give it some work to make it clearer, but hypothetically you have to change yourself, because you're both a congregation and a minister and a council president and I don't know what you're not. That's what I think is wrong and that's why I said it's not consistent, that it needs to be fixed and that it needs to go to another reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u21995	Mr. Shime Luchin's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u21996	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Denona, you're on the trail, and you're the only one who called it a little different what I called politicization. Actually, a civilization step should at least go in the direction of letting the waist run the whole story, right? We're actually introducing politicians now, so from mayor, chief to minister into it all together. On the other hand, we ask from the administrators, directors and all the employees in that tourist community that they must be experts, that they must be state-owned and I don't already know what kind of exams, and now there's a little discrepancy. Now I can understand that the director of the tourist community in Dubrovnik must speak five languages and have six professional exams, but I really don't understand in one Zagorje village which has two rural economies in fact and two sights that first of all the director of the office should be a professional, that he should have professional staff and that he would have to take a professional exam. Because de facto will eat not only what it earns and expensive as a tourist community but it will actually be, it will come out in a certain way. And that's why I think a series of questions that we've heard here, and I'm sure we'll hear them, actually is at least categorizing two basic types of these tourist communities let me call them that, big and small.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u21997	Thank you. We have one correction. Mr. Gary Cappelli, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u21998	Correction is, Mr. Shime Luchin said that for example I couldn't be president of the tourist community or mayor, because I'm allegedly in conflict of interest because I have a tourist agency. However, by virtue of the Law of Conflict of Interest, I have long resolved it, and I can be one and the other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u21999	Thank you. It is up to Mr. Ponzimir Puljic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22000	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the honourable representatives of the motion, Mr. Minister. Three legislative proposals that are before this House, the Proposal for a Law on Tourist Communities and the Promotion of Croatian Tourism, the Proposal for a Law on residence tax, the Proposal for a Law on Memberships in Tourist Communities, are linked to each other so that they really form a functional and legal package that prescribes the establishment and operation of a system of tourist communities. This is necessary for their compliance, and this means, at the same time, changes and additions, which in this case, given the numerous changes so far and the addition of existing laws with the right to choose the form of new legislative proposals in order to avoid the transparency and incomprehensibility of this very important legislation. As so far, tourist communities are legal persons in whom concepts meet and co-operate in the public and private sectors for the purpose of developing, acting and promoting Croatian tourism as important economic activities in which they pursue their interests. Mandatory forms are, according to Article 4 of the new legal proposal, the tourist community of the municipality or city, the tourist community of the area in which the tourist communities of municipalities and cities are not established, the tourist community of the City of Zagreb, the tourist community of the county and the Croatian tourist community as a roof organisation for the territory of the Republic of Croatia. But mandatory tourist communities are possible, the law predicts them but with the previous consent of the ministry and provided that the means of operation are provided by the municipality or city from their budgets. Mandatory members are also bonds of payment of membership fees, which are legal and natural persons who generate income by providing services in tourism or with tourism directly related activities. The amount of membership fees was determined by the draft membership laws in tourist communities and these tourist resorts are classified as so far in four classes A, B, C and D, with all settlements above 30,000 inhabitants now in class A. The rate of the membership fee depends on the activity group and the tourist class and on the rate of the total income. The tax administration is empowered to supervise the payment of membership fees to legal and physical persons, and the Ministry of Oversight in tourist communities. The bodies of the tourist community are a congregation of the tourist community of the municipality, city, etc. while the Assembly at national level is called the National Assembly of the Tourist Board. The tourist council is the executive body of the tourist community, the supervisory board also exists under this law-proposed structure. The president of the tourist community is a special institution, and the paper is that the president of the tourist community is in office, so not so far as the selection of members of the assembly but as mayor, or mayor. These have avoided the unsolicited situations that have occurred so far. The duplication between local self-government and the assembly of the tourist community and the inability and choice and functioning that actually the entire system has been holding back. The activities of tourist communities and in this as well as in the current law are based on general utility, but this law proposes and brings the exception of possible commercial action, and the tourist community can manage tourism infrastructure, organise events and events, conduct commercial ads in its votes, give souvenirs, tourist maps and guides, intercede in booking accommodation if there is no travel agency in this place. There is also an obligation of professional examination for working in the tourist office for the director, as well as for professional workers. The residence tax law determines how payments, conditions and obligations of this most issued income for the activities of tourist communities. They've been detained from the law so far by a good solution, by a pause for private renters, and by a vignette for boaters. And here, after 14 years of functioning of the tourism community system, it has been shown that this system is a good, animator and promoter of Croatian tourism, but the shortcomings that have also been identified have also been shown and this legislative proposal has tried to address these shortcomings. I think the solutions are good. I support the adoption of this law and I also support the urgent procedure in order to show the improvements it brings already in this next tourist season.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22001	Thank you. Ms. Representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22002	Thank you very much, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In order to strengthen and promote Croatian tourism, which represents a public interest as well as economic legal and physical persons, which is the interest of the private sector, tourist communities as a legal person have been established. The law requires mandatory but equally optional forms. The objectives are to encourage the development of an existing tourism product, as well as new products, to develop awareness of the importance and effects of tourism with particular emphasis on environmental protection to create good assumptions for tourism. The achievement of income from residence tax, membership fees, budgets, loans and voluntary revenues cannot be engaged, of course it is their main, i.e. the main basis of how they are financed, but also cannot deal with activities and which make direct profits, and cannot play a role in the core capital of a company. They can sell souvenirs, tourist tickets, guides for better quality services. But it is important to say that after 14 years of law enforcement, the system has proved many advantages, but the tourist communities have also strengthened and now it is time to work on a more rational structure and use of funds. Oversight should also be improved, better co-ordinated in the connection system of tourist communities, as well as the number of workers in tourist communities and the number of body members. The purpose of the new law is also to contribute to the overall quality of the tourist product, and the Croatian model of tourist communities is similar, very similar to the Austrian model. The law already said that the president of the tourist community becomes the mayor of the municipality, the mayor, or mayor, depends on the unit of local, or regional self-government for which it was founded. So far, it has been a person elected by the assembly on a proposal from the municipal or city chiefship, and the president of the county tourist community has been a member of the county headship in charge of tourism. And we think that this is a better solution now, because practice has shown that there have often been disagreements, because the assembly in a number of cases would disagree with the selection of the person proposed by the headship, which created major problems in the work and sometimes blocked the work of the tourist community. This ensures cooperation between the tourist community and the local unit, or regional self-government for the area in which it operates, and also eliminates the possibility of conflict of interest because the duties of directors and employees of the tourist office are incompatible, as well as the response to the previous discussion and the objection to fellow mayor Cappelli, and the supervisory board, as well as the director is prevented from carrying out tourist and catering activities in the area in which the tourist community is established. It also cannot take part in or participate in decisions affecting the financial or other interest of a spouse, child or parent, and the development of tourism must be given special attention to local self-government because it contributes to the greater quality of life of the population, as well as to economic development and cooperate with the tourism community to continue to develop successfully in this area. The point is to act on local and tourist communities and their resources to focus on improving the living conditions of tourism in the community. With this law, economic inspectors will be able to carry out more quickly, more effective inspection because it obliges the tourist community to verify and collect data on the application and check-out of tourist stays during the main tourist season, in order to calculate the payment and payment of the tourist tax. Tourist communities will manage the units of local self-government with public tourist infrastructure, and will participate in defining the policy and development of tourism, and this is also a very important quality at the level of the municipality or the city, to participate in creating conditions for better co-ordination of the public and private sector. There will also be a different assembly composition, so one member cannot have more than one third of the total representatives in the assembly, and thus prevents the power to decide individual entities and to ensure the rational use of funds. The composition of the tourist council, which will be held by the president and eight members from the ranks of members of the tourist community, is also changed, and so far this has not been the case. It is necessary to say that the new law gives greater authority to the Croatian tourism community, directly in relation to the powers so far, both in terms of supervision and in terms of concrete measures authorised to take in the exercise of supervision, which strengthens the system of problem-solving within the system itself. The membership fee is definitely a very significant income of tourist communities, so it is important, of course, is also important to schedule these funds within the complete system. A significantly smaller accommodation capacity in the continental part of the Republic of Croatia results in the fact that the share of the membership fee in the tourism community's income accounts for 80 to 90%, while in coastal counties, the tax is the most important source of income, ranging from 60% to 85% of these laws regulates the obligation to pay membership fees, basics and rates for the accounting and payment of tourist community, payment methods, records, billing and payment as well as the allocation of membership fee to the tourist community, in a way that is distributed with 65% of that tourist community, 10% to the tourist community of the county and 25% to the Croatian tourist community. The exception is made by those tourist communities, and this is the newspaper that we should all praise, which generate gross income less than 200 thousand kuna per year, so membership funds are allocated with 85% of that community and 15% to the county tourist community. But it should also be said that for each business unit outside the seat of a legal or natural person a special basis is established. In addition, the base is reduced by part of the total income obtained in business units outside the tourist resort where the head office and legal or natural person is located. When it comes to tourist resorts, it continues to be classified in four classes. So far, it has been suggested that all settlements with more than 30,000 inhabitants are classified in Class A, so it is important to say that with quantitative criteria, qualitative criteria such as quality of accommodation facilities, infrastructure facilities, order, etc. The IRS would be the one to supervise. And here's the time, it's important to say that residence tax is the highest and most important source of tourism community income, and in 2007, it accounts for more than 62% of the original income. The problems facing the tourist communities so far have been linked to the payment and payment of the residence tax, registration and check-in of tourists and use of residence tax funds, a significant part of the debtors are not, or does not pay residence fees and do not report their guests, so they are not even registered for accommodation service. The owners of houses or holiday apartments and members of their families would pay residence taxes reduced by 70%, and for themselves and members of their family could pay them at a flat rate. One part of the hotel, hotel settlements, port of nautical tourism, for example. charges to tourists that fee, but they do not pay it to the tourist community within the legal period, so they have been using these funds for their own business for a long time. Finally, the 2005 new legislation introduced a new way of paying for private tenants at flat rates and I must say that such a model ensures more efficient, and the payment and payment of a residence tax, better monitoring of tourist traffic, but faster and simpler inspection supervision, and I will support the adoption of these laws in the package. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22003	Thank you. Mr. Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22004	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Mr. Minister, members of the government, the Ministry. Tourist communities are a segment of the overall tourism activity and make a significant contribution to better economic results, because they operate on the ground and have a better overview of the situation on the ground. Tourist communities have been in existence for 14 years and have proved their justification as a segment of this tourist activity, they have done a lot, they have developed, but they have come to a state in which an organization that exists no longer satisfies. There have also been certain deviations compared to the primarily imagined and the time has matured to make certain changes and to supplement the Law on Tourist Communities. However, since the review of all these necessary amendments and the addition of the existing law was such that it represented a lot of what had to be changed and added. It would be more logical to have this result if it were a new law and to discuss it. When I was talking about a certain deviating situation, i.e. a distorted one of the primarily imagined purposes of time, I would point out only a few, quote a few observations about the existing situation, where it is actually seen that in certain segments of the tourist community they cancel out themselves, or they say that they should not work. I will quote: "The assembly of the tourist community is the formal highest body, and as it meets only one or two times a year, it really does not manage the tourist community although its main intention is that." The tourist board of the tourist community is the executive body of the congregation, but actually it is the government, not just the congregation. The Supervisory Board monitors, and in practice there is no impact on what the findings are. The President of the Tourist Board is also the President of the Tourist Board who is practically the one who manages all the tourist problems in a local unit and may happen that his intensities are not in conflict with the interests of local self-government units, but may not work in a way that those who run the local self-government unit can best place their thoughts. And let's say, finally, something important in all things, coordination at different levels of tourist communities, so from the lowest to the Croatian Tourist Board, was not exactly the best, and so often it happened that certain documents, which were at lower levels, were proposed at higher levels, were practically not even read. I am assessing this new proposal of the Law on Tourist Communities with a big and good move forward in terms of increasing the effectiveness of the work of tourist communities and in terms of rationality of their work, and I see the greatest positive shift in the chance given through the fact that at the head of the tourism community a local self-government unit would be the mayor, or mayor, because practically in new conditions and selecting mayors and mayors in direct elections, he is responsible for the entire business problem of his community, his unit of local self-government. And it is logical for each segment through which the economic policy of the unit, the mayor, or mayor, is implemented, to be present, so in this case it is also in relation to the tourist community. In the end, this only proves and confirms one analogy, because it happens at the level of the Croatian tourist community, so why not and at a lower level. So in any case, I think it's a key element of these amendments and additions, or new laws, changes and additions compared to previously said but a new law that would allow it to be more functional. Tourist communities have even begun to deal in certain segments with things that are not competent enough, so let's just say for the organization of a festival, people who have no idea about music and such activity but who don't have as much knowledge as others would be. So the mayor will have a chance to hire someone who knows better for such a segment. Also, tourist communities were almost forbidden to do anything from the concept of their organisation. Now they get specific tasks, they can get specific tasks and carry out these tasks. If we stop at the other two laws that we're looking at in the package and they're part of it because it's coming in and creating a positive working climate, it's a question of residence taxes and membership fees. Of course, all those who have to pay the membership fee to want to pay as little as possible and those who receive those fees would want as much as possible. However, this raises the question in relation to what membership fees are actually given. If someone with their membership fee achieves the results he needs, or if the function of the tourist communities that some members of the tourist community have filled with their membership fee is fulfilled, then it is normal that this membership fee is fully justified and that this member gets his counterservice for it. It is important to say that the ratio of income, the income ratio of tourist communities between those two segments whose budget was charged between residence tax and membership fee is actually almost two-thirds in favour of residence tax rather than membership fees so that a possible increase in membership fees and a long time ago something like this has not happened, has been at the same level of payment and membership fees as annual membership fees are not so dominant in total income. There's a bigger dominant in terms of residence taxis. Therefore, it is directly evident that the direct income of tourist communities is dependent on tourism traffic and should therefore be concluded that they must be very and directly interested in making tourism as much as possible and as good as possible. It is worth the attention that the distribution of membership fees and residence fees has tried to protect those environments that in themselves have not been able to raise enough funds for their work, and if it does not exceed 200 thousand kuna per year, they do not have to give forward to more levels of their contribution than retain complete funds for themselves. One segment I have to point out about the residence tax, which is the interpretation of people who have their own weekends. Namely, it is the wish of the legislator to make residence taxes and people who have their own cottages and stay in the cottages also be subject to anyone else who comes as a tourist. However, I would like to point out something that is still not fully agreed in the Croatian legislation and is likely to be regulated by the amendments to the Law on Spatial Planning. The weekends represent housing, not tourism. They are located halfway between housing and tourism. So, according to their character, these are residential buildings, regardless of whether it's an apartment, apartment or a house, and they're in a function of one recreational apartment, and therefore from the definition of another house and whether someone has the right to another house and whether that other house is mine in Zagreb or my apartment is located in Zagreb could only then be approached and in a precise definition of the tourist tax for those who have that other living space. Thank you for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22005	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Mrs. Representative Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22006	Thank you. Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. The proposal for a residence tax law that we are discussing today is considered extremely unfair according to one group of payers of residence tax, which are owners of houses or apartments for vacation in the tourist municipality or city, which are not accommodation facilities within the meaning of this bill, which, according to this bill as well as the previous ones, must pay a residence tax both for themselves and for all persons who do not want to stay in that house or residence. Because of this injustice, the owners of such facilities and their families are placed in an unfair position in relation to all other taxpayers in the Republic of Croatia cannot support this bill. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia states in Article 14, "All are equal before the law.". However, according to the Law on residence tax, it is not quite so because certain groups of citizens are unfairly taxed twice in this law. How? Simple. And that is ultimately recognised by the legislator himself, the tourism ministry, when in an unmistakable reasoning of the law, I quote: "Article 12 provides for the obligations of the owner of houses and holiday apartments. Tourist tax is essentially a fee for the use of general tourist services and benefits provided to visitors in the tourist municipality or city, which, by their own size and quality, cross the frameworks of the needs of the local population. The owners of houses and holiday apartments are not residents of the municipality or city in which the property is located and the reason for the acquisition is to meet their own tourist needs which they have estimated to be the most completely satisfied using the general tourist services and conveniences of the tourist municipality or the city in which the property is located. Accordingly, like other visitors in the tourist municipality or the city, they must pay a tourist tax.". It would all be nice and wonderful and no one would say a word against it if owners of such facilities would not pay all other fees and taxes throughout the year, which are paid by both persons living and registered in the area. And according to information from citizens and citizens who have contacted me on this bill all these other fees and taxes are not small at all. The explanation that these bonds or bonds are obliged or obliged to pay a residence tax because, again, I quote, "the incentive to acquire and real estate to meet their own tourist needs that they have estimated to be most fully satisfied using the general tourist services and the benefits of the tourist municipality or the city in which the property is located" is just incredibly cynical. In fact, it is these citizens and citizens that, by paying all taxes and fees per year for these facilities throughout the year, the facilities they use perhaps three months a year and probably significantly less generously finance these local self-governments, although their benefits are significantly less advantageous and thus significantly less negatively affecting the consumption of valuable resources. The proposer defends the irrefutable or double taxation of this group of debtors and the following non-stop words: "However, since the owners of houses and holiday apartments pay other public fees and real estate taxes which are the income of a tourist municipality or city in Article 12, it is prescribed that the owner of a house or apartment for rest and members of his family pay a residence tax reduced by 70% and the residence tax may also pay in a flat fee. Oh, please, how incredibly generous of the proposer. The very fact that the residence tax paid by this group of taxpayers or bonds is not excessively high especially if it is paid as a flat-rate and amounts to some 70 kunas does not change anything or that such a provision puts individual citizens and citizens of Croatia in an unequal position in relation to other individuals and thus unfairly discriminate. This bill provides that owners or property owners, if they wish to pay a flat-rate stay tax, must do so by 15 July of the current year at the latest, which is also absurd and discriminatory. Namely, if owners or property owners go to their house at the beginning of the 8th month if they want to pay a flat tax, what? One weekend at 6 or 7 months will have to run into a place where they have real estate in order not to miss the deadline for paying that fee. In this way, pausal is no longer any dating to owners and property owners because the way to a location where they have a property rarely costs 1000 kuna. For all the above, I conclude that this law has the elements of a violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia because it unfairly discriminates against one group of citizens or citizens of the Republic of Croatia and therefore cannot support such an unfair bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22007	Thank you. Mr. Representative Marin Brkarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22008	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues here I will say something very briefly about this I would like to say a significant package of laws, the Law on residence tax and promoting Croatian tourism, about tourist communities or membership. Here I would say that there is a significant package of laws which is more than the total amount of resources in tourist communities at an annual level of 455 million kuna, and certainly there are significant funds, and the tourist communities would say 330, but these are the tourist communities of municipalities, cities, counties, places, areas or Croatian tourist communities have contributed significantly in this past time precisely to the results of each tourist season and this 2008 which we are assessing successfully. In promoting the tourist product and promoting and promoting the destination, it means everything that seeks to increase the quality of the tourist product, but certainly new innovations mean new tourism products, and they also give their sport and participate in the tourism development strategy. It means everything that matters to a tourist country like the Republic of Croatia. Certainly, I will join those who have said that it would be good if this package of laws had come into regular procedure for one basic reason why many and professional associations, but also businessmen, were it craftsmen or companies or the tourist community themselves to give further quality suggestions, the suggestion that this package of laws might be better and more precisely done, given that we have been waiting here for 14 years. We know that the last package of these laws was passed in 1994 or earlier in 1991. Here I would once again point out the overall importance of Croatian tourism as one of the most significant branches of the economy in the Republic of Croatia. I would point out that he's making over 7 billion means 7 billion and 100 million kunas of traffic, and that's certainly important. These laws are important, too, that are directly intruding into the self to say the tourist activity because, fundamentally, what is stated in all of these laws in the segment of the tourist communities is the co-operation of the private and public sector. A few amendments, or a few of my suggestions, are partly contained in the amendments to the committees, but I personally think, as defined in Article 10, that tourist communities should not be engaged in economic activities. There are two exceptions that can be provided when booking accommodation or sales, selling souvenirs, tourist tickets and guides. I think it's just one part of unfair competition because directly in that case, if such a provision were accepted by the tourist communities, they would compete with their members paying membership fees. A lot has already been said about the president of the tourist community. I will only repeat that I advocate that, in addition to the mayors of the municipal or mayors and mayors, they can either determine the person who will be the president of the tourist community, the more we have direct elections for the mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors in May. Headships disappear and we have directly elected deputy mayors or mayors and mayors, so I think it would be good to leave that possibility to the mayors, mayors or mayors that if they estimate they name the person who will replace them as head of the tourist community. This means the president and the assembly and the tourist council. In addition, I propose that in Article 33 where regulated, the number of representatives of the assembly that determines the proportion of each individual member's share is increased to one half, up to one half, so that no one in the assembly can have a monopoly, but that the assembly is certainly representative in some way in terms of the income that a member pays in that assembly. And the next thing I know, it's about the residence tax bill. I would argue that the percentages of the distribution of tourist tax in favour of the county tourist communities are changed in Article 20 in such a way that the funds are reduced to, in part of the Croatian Tourist Board, where 25% is foreseen to 20 and that county tourist communities increase to 15 instead of the current 10%. I think there's a lot of reason for that. Is now the time and opportunity to implement it but certainly you should consider this segment more than the Croatian Tourist Board gets part of the state budget, and on the other hand, the county tourist community is besides the Croatian tourist community significant promoters of the tourist product or tourist destination itself, so I think it would be worth considering that change as well. Here are some suggestions with the amendment committees we've given. Certainly if the amendments are accepted we will support the draft laws that are in the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22009	Thank you. Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. He's gone. Mr. Representative Luke Denon. He's gone. HDSSB representative club, five-minute debate, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22010	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary with Associates. Well, there was already one debate today that defined this part of these three draft laws, the Law on residence tax as one discriminatory law. My colleague almost took my word for it, but I'll explain it my way. And these other two laws and what is invested in our tourism and in the promotion of our tourism and in general in order to say and capital facilities in the field of tourism, I think that, I would not say that our continental tourism is somewhat in a position relative to saying sea or Adriatic tourism. This is also seen by the amounts that I would not quote here right now, but about the amounts that best explain this situation and the differences between continental and marine tourism. And in a situation where we have an economic and financial crisis, when it is on our doorstep if not more than that that affects all of Europe and all of those countries in Central and Western Europe whose destination is the Adriatic Sea over the summer, I'm afraid I won't say salvation, but in any case the importance of obtaining continental tourism. Continental tourism has something to offer only to create brands of every city, every municipality, county starting with hunting to say that religious tourism, cultural tourism, etc. I'm talking about Baroque Varazdin, I'm talking about the Baroque Slavonski Brod, I'm talking about Slavonski Brod as a fairy tale town or the fairy tale town of Ivana Brlic Mažuranić. There is something to offer continental tourism each of our cities. Here is the County of the Ship-Posavina sanctuary of Gossina in Kobash, in the municipality of Orjavac. We have hunting grounds for the Nigalovs. We have a hunting ground for Radinje, etc. Now I ask you if this added value for which we pay the residence tax all those who have holiday homes or cottages and if they are deployed or as they say is sorted into zones according to all those criteria then I wonder why large in Požega-Slavon County near Papuk National Park, near the Jankovec Fortress the old is not there either, in that first street which to the park of the national being the first category, etc. and the residence tax or fee that we pay in our cottages every one who has it or for a guest, a friend who comes to you for a day or two which is completely incomprehensible if you clearly find it, if the inspection comes is completely discriminatory. And because if a friend comes to me hunting in Slavonia, I take him into my house that I have in Siæ, in Radinj, then that friend of mine from Dalmatia who came hunting doesn't pay a stay tax or anyone asks him, nor does he have an inspection to oversee it. If it comes to me picking grapes and it's three days, no one asks in Slavonia or fears that a tourist inspection will come along, so tell me what this Shime is doing from Vira here in Slavonia. Next, a friend from Razanac comes to me to Vir for a barbecue, spends the night a little drunk to spend the night and not travel so little under the influence of alcohol, sleeps. The inspection comes and punishes him and me and him. And indeed, I have cited such an objective example that is everyday, which happens and can happen, and indeed this residence tax is as the colleague said and explained why and in what paragraphs of Article 12 and those other items are indeed discriminatory. If people who have their cottages are paying their taxes in order for these cottages, if they pay communal fees for a year and are there for 15 or 20 days, if they pay all other fees, if they make and profit and pay VAT clearly in the price, then it is very strange and totally unacceptable to pay in their homes, in their apartments, in their home, in their home and tourist tax. That's not what I'm gonna be, to raise my hand for a bill like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22011	Thank you. Final review, Minister of Tourism Damir Bajs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22012	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. So I'm glad this set of laws caused such an occupation. What I would point out is that several club representatives said they would explicitly support the law, some said they were primarily for it, but they have certain objections, some of which, of course, are against it. It is perfectly legitimate and I would say understandable that in the Parliament it is this way to be set up according to these very important laws since after 15 years we change I would say one system, a system of tourist communities. These 330 are put into new frameworks, new frameworks that must give competitiveness to Croatian tourism. I would point out that those dilemmas that are indicated aren't really dilemmas. Namely, about a few things I would say focused on the debate. The question is whether mayors, mayors, mayors should or should not be presidents of tourist communities. I will say if, therefore, we follow the system of laws on local self-government, if we follow the will of citizens who have given them confidence to manage, not a destination, but the totality of that city, the municipalities or the county as an executive authority, since there is a council at the level of local self-government, or the county assembly, then it is clear that if we want the tourist communities to manage destinations, we must put them in that position. It is clear, and this should be particularly highlighted, so that if we are talking about their obligations that the statutes of the tourist community will be resolved technical matters because there is no need to overstretched the law when we would therefore determine those events at the meetings of the tourist council or the tourist assembly, then we would actually burden the law, instead of giving the possibility that, of course, the meetings of water and their deputies who can be completely legitimately placed in the constitutional provisions. There was, of course, a question of a united promotion. We think it is a good and quality thing that will solve the issue precisely regarding the coming years, and the years are what they will give, I would say on the competitiveness test of Croatian tourism. Also, what is important here is to point out that more or less everyone agreed that after 15 years it is necessary to make changes within this system and that changes generally in the vast majority go exactly that way and support themselves in terms of the fact that Croatian tourism is taking place, of course, as some said and primarily in the Adriatic Sea, but in this law there are a number of provisions that highlight the need for development at the level of parts of Croatia in the touristic sense and the corresponding provisions that definitely support such thinking are therefore provisions which define both the residence tax and therefore membership fees through the fact that they do not go, if it goes below 200 thousand kuna, so that money is more in the main office of the Croatian tourist community, than it goes towards the local environments that we are thus particularly strengthening, and we also have the possibility of developing tourist infrastructure on the tourist under the underdeveloped parts of Croatia. What I would say, therefore, is that those three settings that are related to the fact that we have to give tourist communities the opportunity to develop a destination, we have to connect them with the local self-government that you have been associated with so far because we have cases and today because it is legal for mayors, mayors and mayors to be presidents of tourist communities, they are members of the headship and they can be today, so when we talk about it, then we are also talking about the situation that exists now, which will be related in a different way. And on the other hand, we have to give them the elements that actually have the ability to manage the destination through a merger of projects of local self-government with a combination of the turns of the tourist community. I would also point out, and it's several times indicated we wanted to rule out competition. It is clear that the public service, however, and what in any case the Croatian Tourist Board is, must not and cannot compete with the private sector and we have made it clear in a number of legal solutions, the administrative and public sector is not considered to be competition for private entrepreneurs. The only exception was that he was named here by the tourist agencies because he had such a request from the field and only in case there is no suitable tourist agency on the ground. Also, professionalisation of further and further increased expertise is something we will continue to seek. This law stipulates it, and as for the common, I would say sectoral cooperation between the public and private sectors, I don't think it should even be overexplained in view of the fact that at this point it is actually an necessity that exists before us. As for the other circumstances relating to fees and travel fees, i.e. the annual fee, I will say that they are clearly in line with the present moment, they should facilitate payment, and also be fair, so in terms of distribution. I would point out that by solving issues through vignettes, especially in a sector that is related to nautical tourism, we allow for a simple fee as far as boaters are concerned, and de facto we allow this payment to go in favour of what may not have been charged so far, which is, in this case, the total of tourism. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22013	Thank you. I am concluding the debate on these three agenda points that have been discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22014	Final proposal for a law on tourism communities and promoting Croatian tourism. It's an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 199. The debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the government submitted amendments. In accordance with Article 166. The Rules of Procedure on amendments submitted must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present. Who is agreeing to conduct a debate on the government's amendments, please raise your hand? Thank you. Against? Restraint? No abstention. He's got a abstention. To hold the debate, 78 voted against 44 and 10 abstentions. I ask the applicant's representative to further explain the amendments. State Secretary Branko Grgic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22015	Mr. President, we have four amendments to the government. Yes, four. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In Article 33(3), the word “one third” is replaced by “40%”. Reason: In the course of discussions with hotelers' professional associations, it was concluded that the limited number of representatives of each member in the assembly indicated by the maximum percentage makes it impossible to allow the authority of the individual member to decide sufficiently, yet ensures more adequate representation of members with a higher share in the tourism community's income.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22016	Thank you. I'm opening an amendment debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Who is for this first amendment to the government? Thank you. Against? Restraint? This government amendment was accepted 78 for, 52 against and 1 abstention. Amendment two to Article 50.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22017	In Article 50, the term “out of the ranks of its members ” is deleted and the words“ out of the ranks of its members ” are added. More precisely, the way in which the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce delegate their representatives to the Tourist Board of the Tourist Board of the County, is defined, and in order to avoid the current practice of delegation of chamber officials to the Tourist Board of the Tourist Board of the Tourist Board of the County.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22018	I'm opening a debate on the second amendment to the government. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Who's for amendment two to the government? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that the second amendment of the government has been accepted by 78 votes in favour, 50 against and 2 abstentions. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22019	The article 57 eventually deletes the point and adds: “From the ranks of their members. ” More precisely, the way the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce delegate their representatives to the Tourist Board of the Croatian Tourist Board, in order to avoid the possibility of delegation of chamber officials to the HTZ Tourist Board.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22020	Thank you. I'm opening a debate on the third amendment to the government. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. I find that most of the vote is 78 for, 51 against the government's 3 amendments to this law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22021	In Article 62, paragraph 3 is added, which reads: “The Croatian Tourist Board brings an annual work programme and a financial plan with the previous consent of the ministry.” Since a significant part of the income of HTZ is provided from the state budget as a reason for the national tourism organisation of the countries is particularly interested in spending the Croatian tourist community's resources and for the activities and activities of the Croatian Tourist Board. Articles 3, 4 and 5 thus far become paragraphs 4, 5 and 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22022	Thank you. I'm opening a debate on the fourth amendment to the government. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the fourth amendment of the Government. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? This fourth amendment of the government was accepted by most votes, 78 for, 48 against and 4 abstentions. We're moving on to a statement on the other amendments. You've got a review of the amendment on the benches. The first is the amendment of the Tourism Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22023	The government doesn't accept the amendment. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22024	The Committee on Tourism, Mr. Brkaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22025	Mr. President, I would insist that this amendment be voted upon, given that it is the activities of tourist communities, i.e. I would say that the tourist communities, by having to sell souvenirs in their activity, will compete with their members who are paying membership fees to the tourist communities. The point of this article is that it is changing and that tourist communities can carry out this activity exclusively if it is about places where such shops do not exist.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22026	What now? Are we voting? We're voting on the amendment. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 2nd Amendment, also the Committee on Tourism on Article 10?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22027	The government doesn't accept the amendment. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In paragraph 3 of that Article, point 5 is proposed to intervene in the reservation of private accommodation only if there is no registered tourist activity in the area for which the tourist community is established.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22028	Mr. Brkaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22029	Here's the same explanation. If the tourist community intervenes in booking accommodation, it will compete with its members, meaning travel agencies that are in the area, and operate. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22030	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 3., also the Committee on Tourism on Article 18.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22031	The government doesn't accept the amendment. In the interest of tourism development, it is particularly important to ensure the cooperation of the tourism community of the local, regional (regional) self-government unit through the function of the municipal mayor, mayor or mayor, more so that they are elected in direct elections and enjoy the confidence of citizens in the area for which the tourist community is founded. In addition, the provisions of the statutes are normally determined by a person who will convene and chair the meetings of the Assembly of the Tourist Council in the event of the prevention of the president.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22032	Thank you. Mr. Brkaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22033	So the explanation of this amendment briefly, we suggested that instead of the mayor, or mayor and municipal chief. They can name as president a person who, his trust, calls it that, offered by the direct election of the mayors, i.e. the mayor and mayor, we think that even with the absence of the headship since May 2009, we have been offered by the mayors, i.e. the mayors and mayors, we are being overburdened because it is not only the congregations of tourist communities, but also the Tourist Council, which is operationally special in tourist resorts in the coastal part of the meeting once a month. So our proposal is an alternative that along with the mayor, the mayor, or mayor, they can also be the people they name. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22034	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 4th, Amendment of Representative Maria Habek?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22035	The government doesn't accept the amendment. In an explanation, as referred to in point 3., it is added that local, regional and regional authorities cannot elect a president of a tourist community which is one of the bodies of the tourist community.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22036	Mr. Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22037	Here, just like my former counterpart Brkarić, I believe that the duties of the president of the tourist community will not be well done by mayors, mayors, or mayors for a number of reasons, and one of them is that they will not have time to perform the duties, and one reason is that they are certainly not well-trained, or have no quality and great experience in the conduct of these functions and I am asking for a vote under this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22038	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 5. Amendment of the Committee on Tourism?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22039	The amendment in the amended form is accepted so that the Croatian Tourist Board submits a written report on the surveillance carried out to the Croatian Parliament in a word in accordance with paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of the same article.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22040	I accept the explanation and we give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22041	in the text read by the Secretary of State. [[The speaker was subsequently turned on.]] 6th, Agent Maria Habek?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22042	The government doesn't accept the amendment. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22043	Mr. Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22044	I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22045	The amendment has been withdrawn. Thank you. The 7th Amendment, also representing Maria Habek?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22046	The government doesn't accept the amendment. The attribution of exceptions to the obligation to pass professional examinations is a practice which is otherwise present in national legislation and can therefore not be considered unacceptable. It shall also be subject to the rules of law, Article 21(5) and shall therefore not apply to unknown categories.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22047	Mr. Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22048	So I'm going to ask for a vote on this amendment because I believe that a candidate who wants to be the director of the tourism community in law should write which jobs he has been leading, or who has been doing for 10 years, so I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22049	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 8th Amendment, Tourism Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22050	The government doesn't accept the amendment. The proposed provision does not prevent the tourism society from using all the revenue provided for in Article 65 of this Act in the area for which the tourism society was established and which remained after the distribution of the other users. However, the intensity of this provision was to determine the minimum amount of revenue to be used for the activities of the tourism society in order to ensure the means for the operation of the tourism society.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22051	Mr. Brkaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22052	We accept the explanation. We're not asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22053	It was accepted in the text read by the Secretary of State. 9th, Agent Maria Habek?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22054	The government doesn't accept the amendment. Point 8, same explanation as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22055	Mr. Mario Habek.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22056	Here, like the chairman of the Tourism Committee, I am withdrawing this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22057	You're pulling back? This amendment has been withdrawn. Thank you. 10th, Tourism Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22058	The government does not accept this amendment. In the case where no municipalities or cities or cities are established in the county area, the founders of the tourist community are its members and in accordance with Article 44(2), and as regards membership pursuant to Article 47(2), the provisions relating to mandatory membership in the tourist community of the municipality or the city, Article 28(1) shall apply accordingly. If the tourist communities of municipalities or cities and cities were established, there would be no reason to establish branches of the tourist community.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22059	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22060	We accept the explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22061	Accepted in the text of the Secretary of State as read. 11, the Tourism Committee, too?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22062	The government accepts the amendment. This amendment has been accepted, becoming an integral part of the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22063	Agent Gary Capelli, the 12th Amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22064	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22065	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 13, the Tourism Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22066	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22067	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. And 14, MP Zeljko Turk?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22068	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22069	It becomes an integral part of the bill. I vote Final proposal of the Law on Tourist Communities and the promotion of Croatian tourism? Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The law on tourism communities and promoting Croatian tourism has been adopted by most votes, 81 votes for, 6 abstentions and 44 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22134	I would now suggest that the three Final Proposals of the Law on Tourist Communities and the Promotion of Croatian Tourism, the Law on Memberships in Tourist Communities and the Law on Tourist Tax be held in a united debate. Do we agree? Okay. - The final proposal of the Law on Tourist Communities and the promotion of Croatian tourism is an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 199 - Final proposal of the Law on Memberships in Tourist Communities is an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 198 - Final proposal of the House Tax Act is an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 200 Proposer is Government. P.Z.E.'s are everything. It's an emergency procedure. Amendments to the end of the debate carried out by the Committees on Law, European Integration, Tourism. Proposer representative, Tourism Minister Damir Bajs will further explain the proposals. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Greetings to all MPs. Here I will briefly present the postulates that led us in the drafting of the Law on Tourist Communities and the promotion of Croatian tourism and two accompanying Laws on Taxes and Tourist Memberships. What I would say first is the fact that the Law on Tourist Communities and, in general, all your laws come from 1994. Given that it is now in 2008, it is completely different that in these almost 15 years, changes were needed in a system that is extremely important for Croatian tourism. Namely, the system of tourist communities also serves to promote from local level to state, and I would say and control and coordinate, but transport Croatian tourism. What is particularly to be pointed out here is that when we did this law, then we followed the fact that, of course, everything that had changed in those 15 years had to be incorporated into something that would further encourage Croatian tourism. Three things were crucial. The first thing was that in this law it had to be indicated that the tourist community was getting a new function. A new function she has not had so far, which is the management of a tourist destination. It's one of those red threads that led us to make the law. The other thing was that tourist communities must be partners in the private sector, that they must go to a united promotion, that they must simply work together to improve the destination but not only to improve the destination but also to highlight the promotion of their individual destinations of the city, municipality or county but of course the totals of Croatia itself. And the third thing I would point out was specifically indicated is further professionalization of the system. We therefore want more professionals to be represented in the system of tourist communities in a way that is actually through expert exams and other ways to raise standards that are already quite high. When we talk about managing destinations as one of the changes is particularly important I will point out that we are going to achieve this through a series of legal provisions. So our goal is to have the tourist community of a municipality or city when it is already established get that new assignment. One of the elements that we've been running is that here, too, the public and private sectors must be in agreement. And so we have proposed something that is otherwise in line with new laws regarding the system of local self-government. So these are the laws that define the election of mayors, mayors and mayors but through this system of laws we are not having the opportunity to nominate a member who has been delegated before the headship as president of the Croatian Tourist Board in that capacity is the mayor, mayor and mayor. The reason is a double. One is the alignment of the rules and the other is the management of destinations. We actually want those who are chosen by the people, who represent the people, who have I would say the key mechanisms and deposits to manage the destination through a series of other activities that the law of the day have and review and coordinate I would stress all those efforts that the tourist community itself is working on managing the tourist destination. It's something that we think is in itself understood in the light of what the waist is looking for right now. In particular, we want a mayor who manages the county without headship right now with the possibility and obligation... to actually manage a series of potentials and to coordinate in fact all efforts at the level of, for example, the county, along with those efforts to unite in the tourism community itself and to promote tourism and manage the destination that all infrastructure and other projects are in line with the needs of tourism without being overly burdened by it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What should also be said that this goal would have been achieved should have been another matter. In fact, the system of tourist communities so far was only able to promote Croatian tourism or the destination itself and now we are actually moving that ban. We actually allow tourist communities to do other public jobs that are not in conflict with competition in the private sector. Therefore, tourist communities can manage the destination at the moment by performing other tasks that will be handed over to them by municipalities, cities, public-type counties, which are related to public governance but with that fence that can't be competitive to the private sector. This enables the tourist community to have levers that will, in fact through duality, allow it to simply agree with local policy but also with those who will have tourist councils, which are the very people who make up tourism itself because the tourist council is of course further selected from companies that are, of course, engaged in tourism and are related to tourism. Another thing I would particularly like to stress is the question of a new relationship related to the fact that we want especially in these situations, situations that will be challenging for the Croatian economy, but we must always say about Croatian tourism, that more than ever before, one agreement is important, one joint appearance of the private and public sector. And that's why we want to transfer to the tourist communities and lower ranks even from municipal to city, and then county and, of course, according to the main office, one need, one I would say imperative moment but also the future, which is that in all their activities they have a number of consulting but especially I would stress mandatory relations and the inter-private sector, so that they actually need in this way in times that are ahead of us to take over and promote in a more recent way. That's what I would say has been a long time ago and a requirement of profession to in such a way set up a system of tourist communities and we think although... I think that's what we're actually responding to these wishes of the profession itself, but we're also harmonising our system with a system that exists in our own countries that are competitive to us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We also believe, of course, that in the system of tourist communities there is still work to be done in the supplemental I would say professionalisation within the system. So, we're running expert exams for all the employees. We believe that there is and should be addressed the issue of a potential conflict of interest. Namely, the fact is that the system of tourist communities is the system where the best people on the ground work in tourism on I would say implementing such demanding tasks. What should be pointed out is that with this professionalization, of course, we want to simply give a situation in which one who works in the public sector cannot and should not compete in the private sector and that is something that led us to the provision that we have now stated. Of course, when we look at this system, it will come into force within the meaning of this law if the Parliament accepts it, implementing it from 1.1.2010. He will step in immediately but all the implementing activities that were before then and, for example, of course, the choice of local leaders and then by constituting... works so that in fact such a complex system consisting of 330 tourist communities of various ranks would have one year to align, adapt and for me would say monitoring changes within the legal framework. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We are convinced that in this way Croatia can respond through a state agency that exists everywhere in the world and to all of us competitive countries not only in the environment but also beyond. A narrower and closer coordination between the tourism ministry and the main office is also being introduced. We would also like to stress the importance that through the Ministry of Tourism we are also giving considerable resources in promoting Croatian tourism. They, of course, have their own sources of income, but when the state gives such resources, of course, coordination and control is necessary, necessary and justified in their own way. All in order for the united product, so the promotion of Croatian tourism to be united all in order to unite the product and that is the promotion of Croatian tourism to be uniform in all the markets that are of paramount importance to us. Of course, under this law, we have made all the changes that have taken place in the legislation for the last 15 years, I will not individually list them, but surely these things go in order for the system of tourist communities to be in line with the overall legal system of the Republic of Croatia. As for the second set of laws, I will say that the Law on Memberships in Tourist Communities actually harmonizes with the national classification of activities, therefore, with the positive legal regulations determines who falls under the payment of membership fees,... is introduced into tourist classes, a quality and quantitative practical criterion is introduced and what may be a special novelty, which has not been so far. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] From municipalities and cities that generate gross income less than 200 thousand kuna per year, membership fees are not allocated as so far between the main office of the county,... and city rather than actually remains everything in the local community, in this case in the tourist community of the city and the tourist community of the county. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The reason is simple, we also want to support those environments that have tourist communities, but whose income is somewhat smaller than we would like and in this way practically state or main office will have income that will be less than perhaps indicated to change their operationality, but these few million kunas... will be less, will remain more in local communities that intend to develop tourism. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as the House Tax Act is concerned, I must say, of course, that it remains basically the way it is, but we are also introducing something that is a complete newspaper, something that is otherwise sought, which is actually, I would say a quality, simple, but also an effective charge of tourist tax and nautical tourism, through which, therefore, a system of vignettes where tourists who come in this way to Croatia, and nautical tourism is increasingly important every year for total Croatian tourism. Therefore, on the one hand, it does not burden the daily payment of the residence tax, and on the other hand it is simple and effective for payment. So when we talk about it, then we're actually talking about a situation where we can simply expect more income from that system than those that, and we're going to give them actually less burden in terms of daily payment of tourist tax. However, I would also like to stress another newspaper that is the same as in the newspaper of membership, which is that up to 200 thousand kunas are practically changing the ratios of funds and that they are actually supporting those less tourist communities, or maybe we can tell those tourist communities that have smaller incomes in a way where they have the same below 200 thousand kunas we are dissuading them from the obligation to co-finance the main office and leave the funds on a local level so that they can make quality and good use of it. This system, therefore, is a complex system, I can stress that I am glad that it has come to an interest in the profession and, of course, I am glad that the parliamentary committees have studied it thoroughly. However, I will also say that after 15 years, it is really time for our main state agency, which is called in this case, the Croatian Tourist Board to be in line with everything that the profession is looking for in the turbulent times ahead of us, and for these changes to go after the fact that they are given new tasks such as the management of the destination, that new tasks are given to them by the private sector and better quality promotions and that they are going to further professionalise with those changes that will lead us to Croatian tourism, which I will remind you of, but also makes themselves and viewers 18% of the share in gross national income that makes strategic... Croatia's economy gets further, I'd say an incentive to be competitive. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And Croatian tourism must be competitive not because it wants to, not because it wants to, but because it has to be. In fact, 85 of our tourists come from abroad, these tourists can choose any other destination in the world, you yourself know that tourism is usually both a branch of progress and elsewhere, and that just such measures must work to ensure that the competitiveness of Croatian tourism is in no way questionable, and these times are precisely those times that highlight the need for such a united approach to the public and private sector. Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22136	Thank you. Legislative committees, European integration, the Committee on Tourism? Reporters of the board, Mr Marin Brkarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22137	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. At the 10th session held on 2 December 2008 and on 4 December 2008, the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the Proposal for a Law on Tourist Communities and the Promotion of Croatian Tourism with the Final Proposal for a Law submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by Act of 27 November 2008, with a proposal to comply with Article 161. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall adopt the proposed law by an urgent procedure. The final proposal for a law pursuant to Article 69 is discussed by the Committee on Tourism. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a home working body, in particular in the area relating to the identification and monitoring of the implementation of the tourism development of the Republic of Croatia. On the basis of the preliminary exhibitors of the representatives of the proposings and representatives of the committee, it has been established that the Law on Tourist Communities and the promotion of Croatian tourism are... The financial laws he passed in 1991, adapted to this territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia in 1994, created assumptions for the construction and operation of the systems of tourist communities and national tourism organisations based on a long tradition and almost 150th anniversary of the first organisational forms in Croatian tourism. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] During the 15-year activities in the Republic of Croatia, on the principles of non-profitability, not politics and democracy, as well as the work of general benefit, this system has shown all its importance and effectiveness in the field of promoting, improving and promoting our tourist offer. That during the implementation of the aforementioned laws, there has been an expression of some non-compliance of certain provisions in relation to the experience gained, and in particular the need for better coordination within the tourism community systems, more effective formulations of tourism promotion programmes and more transparent use of funds and better supervision of the financial operations of these communities. On the basis of the debate, it can be argued that there has been a huge dissatisfaction with the members of the board, as well as dissatisfaction from certain tourist communities because of the fact that this law, which is of great importance not only for the development of Croatian tourism but also for its positioning on the international tourist market, is brought into an urgent procedure. For this reason, the Committee has taken a position to refer the proposal to the applicant to consider the possibility of this law being adopted in a regular procedure so that a more high-quality debate can be achieved, and the different factors involved in the creation of a Croatian tourist product can express their opinions and suggestions. After a general debate, the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on Tourist Communities and promote Croatian tourism with 8 amendments. If necessary, I will read them but we have them in writing. And since the other laws on residence tax and membership are being discussed together, I will read only the end that after the discussion of the Tourism Committee on the Law on Tourist Tax by majority of votes; 8 for and 1 against the decision to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law on Tourist Tax with 18 amendments, and as regards the Law on Tourist Memberships, the Committee on Tourism unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law on Tourist Memberships in Tourist Communities with 3 amendments. We all have amendments in the board's records. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22138	Thank you very much. I'm interrupting the hearing. We'll continue at 3:00. Club of HDZ Representatives Mr. Gary Capelli and Mr. Representative on behalf of the HNS Club Goran Beus-Richembergh and so on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22139	My colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Minister. I suggest we start work as announced. We're starting a club debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished colleague Gary Capelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22140	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Minister, the Secretary of State. So, before us, we have a three-point debate. These are the Final Proposal of the Law on Tourist Communities and the Promotion of Croatian Tourism, the Final Proposal of the Law on Memberships and Tourist Communities and the Final Proposal of the Law on residence tax. Therefore, the Croatian Tourist Board as a national tourist organisation was established to create and promote the identity and reputation of Croatian tourism, plan and implement a common strategy and concept of its promotion, propose and implement promotional activities in the country and abroad of common interest for all tourism entities and raise the quality of the entire tourist offer. The Act on Tourist Communities and the Promotion of Croatian Tourism and Follow-up Financial Laws, which was passed long ago in 1991, is adapted to the new territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia. '94. In the years, assumptions were created for the construction and operation of tourist communities and national tourism organisations based on a long tradition, almost 150th anniversary of the first organisational forms in Croatian tourism. Some of the most important tasks of the Croatian Tourist Board are to combine the entire tourist offer of the Republic of Croatia, develop programmes and plans to promote Croatian tourism products, encourage and coordinate the promotion of all tourist communities, as well as all economic and other tourism entities that act directly and indirectly to improve and promote tourism in Croatia, establish tourism representations and facilities abroad, organise and oversee their work. Thus, it should be mentioned that there are exposures in Austria, Belgium, the Czech Republic, Denmark, France, Italy, Japan, Hungary, the Netherlands, Germany, Poland, Russia, the United States, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and the UK. He is working with national tourism organisations of other countries and specialised international regional tourism organisations. Based on the report from the tourist communities, the county monitors, analyzes and evaluates the implementation of plans and programmes of established tasks and the role of the tourist communities system, takes measures and activities to develop and promote tourism in the touristy underdeveloped parts of the Republic of Croatia. The proposal for a new Law on Tourist Communities expanded the number of tasks of tourist communities, and thus provided the possibility of creating a business policy of the tourist community, innovation, development of destination management in cooperation with local self-governments, counties and at the level of Croatia as a whole. As we know, the bodies of the Croatian Tourist Board are the Assembly, the Tourist Council, the Supervisory Board and the President. Croatia's tourism community president's duty is being handled by the tourism minister. The bodies are still the congregations, the tourist council, the supervisory board and the president of the tourist community. The Croatian Tourist Board operates on the basis of the annual work programme and the financial plan adopted by the Assembly and generates revenues from the following sources: residence taxes, membership fees, state budget and other sources. The tourist community in Croatia operates on the level of municipalities or cities, county or the Tourist Board of the City of Zagreb and the Croatian Tourist Board with a central center in Zagreb. So far, we also have examples of popular forms of tourist communities such as Krka is an island tourist community which is a unique example of uniting the interest of a more tourist community in the island area, with a view to better quality promotion and development of the tourist product, as well as an example of the Makarska Riviera Tourist Board. These are positive examples, and this amendment to the Law on Tourist Communities encourages and enables the establishment of these and similar forms of tourist communities. Incomes in tourist communities in 14 years of existence justified their existence. Tourist communities are important subjects of development and promotion of Croatian tourism. In everyday application of the existing Law on Tourist Communities, certain indeterminations, inaccuracy and inaccuracies to be corrected by this law have been observed, and the activities of tourist communities will be more effective and the spending of financial resources will be more meaningful. The aim is, with the least direct financial support from the budget, to provide a quality and efficient system for the tourism community system. This law lays down basic issues that are regulated, which is the structure of the systems of tourist communities, the bodies of tourist communities, the way of work, the tasks, the principles of financing, management, membership in tourist communities, income and the use of these incomes and supervision of the spending of these revenues. This will achieve a better quality tourist offer, development of tourism products, spending resources, promotion, coordination, professional staff and thus the efficiency of a system that counts in Croatia alone 330 tourist communities. Therefore, the implementation of this law does not require funding from the state budget, it is not planned to do so, and since the Law on residence tax is a law which is also in line with European Union rules, it is necessary to adopt all three laws together to ensure the regular functioning of the system. The Act on Tourist Communities and the Promotion of Croatian Tourism in Fundamental Provisions in Article 10(3) states that the tourist community is allowed to publish commercial ads on its promotional materials, sell souvenirs, tourist maps and guides, except for its own promotional material. This change of law is considered positive because the inability to sell souvenirs, tickets and so on. gave the impression that the tourist community does not care about the needs of guests who are in a place where they can get all the tourist information they want to buy souvenirs, tickets, etc. Also, commercial advertising that will certainly help tourist communities in the funded promotional material, and to interested members and partners the possibility of a quality presentation. All materials are printed in high loads so that this will enable mutual interest. Article 14(3) is amended and it is said that members or representatives of members of the tourist community cannot, through the power of authority, empower another person to participate in the work of the congregation instead. This stops the abuse of positions and voting in another's name, which we consider to be positive and important. Article 18(2) changes and says: "The duty of the president of the tourist municipality or of the city and county shall be exercised by the municipal chief, mayor or mayor." An extremely important and major change in the law, which improves the co-operation of the tourist community and local self-government, has happened in practice that the presidents of tourist communities, representatives of tourism companies who have usually indirectly filtered the ideas of administration through tourist communities. They imposed costs, guidelines for working towards the tourist community. With this change, the tourist community will cooperate more effectively on the city's projects, assist in co-financing, joint promotion and destination management, which is listed in this new law as one of the new tasks of the tourist community. We had examples of where in tourist communities the presidents, i.e. The members and president of the council or the assembly of the tourist community are even a representative of the company that in the meantime became the owner of a foreign person, meaning a foreign company. So we have a president of the tourist community who represents a foreign company, practically, a tourist house, which I do not think that this company will certainly represent the legitimate and quality public interest of a city or municipality. So this change is very important. With the fact that it is likely that some amendments will go so that perhaps some person who can be authorised by the mayor, mayor, or possibly the mayor to be on his behalf. In Article 19(1) of the amendment to the law, one member of the Board of Supervisors of the Tourist Board of the Tourist Board delegates the tourism council of the County. This wants to carry out a monitoring that is impartial, even more quality, thus reducing the potential for poor management. In Article 23 of the Director of the Tourist Office, professional workers shall be required to carry out the tasks of the tourist community, except for the fulfilment of the specific conditions laid down in the Rules of Procedure, to have a professional examination passed, which has not been the case so far. Also, Article 23 discusses a conflict of interest, and in practice it was very often possible to find examples where the directors of tourist communities or members of their families perform a tourist activity directly related to the work of the tourist community. In that case, there was the possibility of agreeing to certain decisions. The legislator, precisely because of these problems in practice, wanted to end this negative development. Article 30, paragraph 1 as voluntary members, introduces one quality, one novelty to which members of the tourist community in accordance with Article 28. This is a request from persons who wish to enable prominent individuals who wish to participate in the work of the assembly but who do not have a high enough payment of the residence fee to be able to participate in the work of the assembly. Article 26 discusses the cooperation of tourist communities with the bodies of units of local self-government, municipalities and cities, the joint use of residence tax is agreed, the development of tourism development plans, master plans and the like. So there's a major shift towards co-operation with local self-government. In Article 32, in the list of tasks, the tourist community of course has some news under this law, as I say, management of tourist some, resources in terms of plans, master plans etc. In Article 33(4), it is considered as a share of the tourism community’s income, paragraph 3 of this Article, membership fees and 25% of the residence tax. So, the change is that a maximum of 1 member can have a third of the representatives in the congregation. Until now, it was recommended that 50% of the representatives in the assembly could have a single member, this assembly would be more transparent for quality work, because we had cases where one company practically had a majority, practically a majority in the assembly, and could also do certain things for the benefit of the company itself, which I believe is in conflict with public interest. The association of tourist communities in Article 60, paragraph 1 may be established in the area of the island, Riviera or similar spatial area. This can enable stronger promotion and a common strategy of related areas. Since guests in certain situations are not interested in administrative boundaries, they want to experience a destination this will allow common promotional materials etc.. We also find it important to sanction what is being introduced in article 76 of the irregular business which has not been in practice or in law so far. Therefore, the purpose of establishing tourist communities is to promote and improve tourism as strategic economic branches, and within the systems of tourist communities they need to strengthen and promote economic interests. Therefore, the extremely important role of tourist communities in promoting new economic operators that are yet to achieve certain results, identify the interest that would make tourism in destinations more quality and connect all economic operators, small entrepreneurs, farmers, hotel owners, renters, tourist agencies, boaters, fishermen, souvenir manufacturers, camps and caterers and all in close cooperation, this opportunity and this law bring us closer to better and more quality cooperation with local self-government. The founders of tourist communities continue to be its members, but as to a certain degree of development, development care is taken by the tourist community, a large part of the city's or county's obligations are transferred to tourist communities. Promotional activities on the foreign market of tourist communities of the municipality or city in the future are carried out with the tourist community of the county in which it was founded and only exceptionally independent. This strengthens the efficiency of the presentation and reduces financial expenditure. The papers proposed in the tasks of the tourist communities of the municipality or the city are the management of public tourist infrastructure by the municipality or city, and the management of the tourist destination through participation in the definition of policy and development of tourism. There is also a proposal for a change in the article of the 35th Chamber of Tourists, so that there will be 8 members and presidents. That's it. In that quota, the current possibility of two members of the council delegated by the headship shall be abolished, among other things, by amending the law where the role of the president is played by the head, or by the mayor, i.e. The mayor or who they eventually empower. In particular, it is prescribed that tourist communities co-operate with foreign, regional tourism organisations, and that they may be members of tourist organisations, e.g. World Tourist Organizations. With regard to the control of newspapers, it is the fact that HTZ is given greater powers in direct control compared to the powers so far. As regards measures, who covers supervision. According to Article 80, the existing tourist communities of municipalities, cities and places are obliged to coordinate acts and structures within 10 months of the entry into force of this law. The residence tax law is allocated in a way that 65% belongs to tourist communities of towns and municipalities, 10 County and 25 Croatian tourist communities. The proposed law therefore regulates who the bonds are, the height, the way in which the residence tax is paid, and others, other obligations. It is important, for example, in Article 19, that 40% of the amount of residence tax paid to the tourist community, 10% of national parks and nature parks, and 50% of the use for promoting nautical tourism. The legislator also responded to the negative remarks in practice in Article 20(3) where 65% of the assets of the tourist communities of the municipality or of the city of which 30% of the tourist community's assets are available to the city or municipality that was founded and used exclusively to improve the living conditions. Some towns and municipalities did not spend their purpose in improving the conditions of tourist stay. This joint programme will make your business failures impossible. Therefore, tourist communities will channel funds towards the city knowing what purpose it will be spent on because it will be brought together. And the latest on tourist memberships. As a significant income from tourist communities especially in continental counties where it accounts for even 90% of the income for a small number of accommodation facilities, and thus also for tourist taxes. It is therefore very important to distinguish the payment of the tourist community. In addition to some of the proposals proposed by the Tourism Committee itself, I think this law is of quality, so the Croatian Democratic Community club will also support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22141	Thank you very much, fellow representative. On behalf of the HNS Club, distinguished representative, colleague Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22142	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with his associates. I must begin to show some kind of satisfaction at first because I remember that Minister Bajs promised at the beginning of his term that he would come very soon with one package of laws, i.e. a change of regulations that should revise the situation in the Croatian tourist community system, but also improve the circumstances and models of the functioning of the entire tourist system. In this sense, the HNS Club welcomes the proposals that are ahead of us, but of course it has a whole series of objections, issues, suggestions, the need for clarification, because some parts of these texts do not seem to be fully consistent, i.e. in some parts they are unclear or contradictory. So if it didn't all come down to political evaluation, I'd try to be very specific. When we talk about the Law on Tourist Communities and promoting Croatian tourism, Article 10 defines what a tourist community can do. So point 5, which says it can mediate in the reservation of private accommodation if it is in the tourist resort for which the tourist community is founded there is no registered tourist agency is somewhat dubious. We all know that there are three types of tourist agencies. One is emitting, the other is receptive, the other is combined. What in cases, which are present, can also give you a concrete example when there are three tourist agencies in the city, but none are receptive. They only deal with broadcast programs. In this sense, the tourist community is no one's competition. But the hand-to-heart should say that this law opens up the possibility that the tourist community is dealing with those affairs that the notes are exclusively a mission of the commercial sector. It actually comes from the fact that we suffer because the commercial sector is not in all environments equally well developed and that there is no content that we would ask it to do. In many places you really can't buy a postcard or souvenir or find out about private accommodation, you can't actually buy anything because there are no tourist agencies. Of course, commercial organisers, first of all agents, but then other service providers including souvenir traders cannot view these solutions lightly because they see it as competition and that as unfair competition. In that sense, this is a wire dance. But when it comes to these solutions that will make it easier for many tourist communities to function, I warn them that the problem is different types of tourist agencies, i.e. tourist agencies. Furthermore, when it is said in paragraph 5 that the minister will prescribe a special regulation that is actually considered a tourist infrastructure, it may still have to be defined by this law because it remains a very large space. So there are beaches, bathrooms, swimming pools, resorts, brown signalling, excursions. There's a lot of room. It is said here somewhere that this is what is owned by local self-government. But something can also be owned by the state. Article 18 defines the new Institute of the President of the Tourist Board through political duty. I don't think that's good. I've been listening these days to a whole series of arguments in favor of this thesis and I admit they have, these arguments have their weight. But a model like this can lead to a whole series of problems in the functioning of tourist communities. This will be seen first in the last part of the law when it comes to how the tourist community is disbanded and appointed by the Commissioner. In these circumstances, when directly elected mayors and mayors and mayors, when they assume all the powers that the headship has so far had to give another duty of this type is not good. Not only does it concentrate the power of these people who, let's not forget it first of all political people, political persons and must have absolutely no contact with tourism, nor with hospitality, nor with accompanying services, no experience, no ideas about it. We're putting them here now as a mandatory solution. It would be much better to apply an institute that is in an item lower which says about the presidents of tourist communities, which is that the mayors, mayors and mayors name the president of the tourist community. This gives them the opportunity to protect public interest from the order of professional, well-intentioned, well-intentioned people who will protect the public interest as just before, said counterpart Kapelli is actually a person at the head of the tourist community, but not necessarily the first people of the local community. How else will you replace the president of the tourist community? Not at all. And there you said that in some exceptional cases you would disband the bodies of the tourist community. Under this law, that's not possible. You can't disband the president of the tourist community. At some point, it's said if the president isn't elected. He wasn't elected at all. He's called. So, you're bringing yourself into a trap you don't need. Because as long as the president of the tourist community is in office, and he is, as long as he is elected mayor, mayor or mayor, the tourist community works. Because according to this law, when there is no director of the tourist office, the president of the tourist community, not only represents, but also represents. So it's a contradiction that you can avoid and you still have time. Because I repeat, a person like this cannot be replaced or called to account. If you would allow him to appoint a president, then you could also change him, or you could enlist the mayor, the mayor and the mayor to appoint a new person who will bear the burden of responsibility. Furthermore, the president of the tourist community, according to Article 18, calls for the meeting of the tourist community and calls for the chairmanship of the tourist council. The logical provision, however, in the law, not only of this, but also of some other regulations define the deadlines in which certain work should be carried out, such as the adoption of an annual work programme, the adoption of a financial plan, the adoption of a work report. These are mostly deadlines for local self-government budgets, and that is normal, but it is not normal to expect from the mayor, mayor or mayor, if they remain presidents that they will submit their time to the work of the tourist community, rather than vice versa. And it may occur to you that before Christmas you simply get sick, get flu and you miss the legally established deadline for holding a session of the tourist board and the assembly of the tourist community. It should, as there is now a model that has been first and foremost transferred to the statutes of the tourist communities that in cases where the president cannot chair the community bodies, it should be replaced by the oldest member of the assembly. That's not a bad solution, but it's temporary. And it can't lead to abuse. Furthermore, I am sure that you have a good reason why you suggest that a member, a member of the monitoring board of the tourist community actually appoints a higher level of organisation of the tourist community and why this control system is being introduced. Among other things, Article 21 repeats a provision which we have and in the current regulation, which is that the Minister will lay down the necessary conditions for professional training, work experience, language knowledge and other specific skills that must be met by persons in the tourist office. However, I would like to warn you and ask. So, you as Minister, or Minister of Tourism, are in the hands of an important instrument that can make life important to the tourist communities, whether or not you want to. Namely, an existing model requires directors of tourist communities for at least 3 years of working experience in tourism. You are certainly witnesses in the ministry that you have a series of problems throughout the continental part because that provision in the rulebook is interpreted to you in a way that does not take into account the accompanying industry. So, theoretically speaking, a night receptionist at the age of three and a day of work with a completed study can easily compete and get the post of director of the tourist community, and a person who has, not only a high professional training, but 10 or 12 years of employment in traffic, marketing or cultural events can not be the director. So here, please, when you adopt a rule that follows this law to liberalise that part and to enable, especially, the tourist communities of smaller towns and municipalities, that they can normally get their directors of tourist communities because this way on the labour market, I can't get anyone. Furthermore, in Article 32, it is noted that the tasks of the tourist community of municipalities or cities have been increased from 13, as far as they were in the current law on as many as 21 tasks. The people involved in this work have noticed that point 6, this is the development of strategic and development plans for tourism at the level of the municipality or city, indeed, in favour of tourist communities. However, these have not prevented the possibility of such strategic plans still being brought by units of local self-government because they too have a legal obligation, i.e. the possibility. It wouldn't be a bad idea to harmonize those two things so that we don't have the tourist community bringing in one strategic plan, and the city council the other. We have cases, and for that you know well, not so far from Zagreb where the local community and the tourist community are actually at war. This should be avoided by harmonising certain obligations, and one of them is the adoption of strategic plans. Furthermore, when it comes to tourism society, it is not quite clear this way. Namely, here is a formulated branch of the tourist office, not a tourist society because the concept of society involves society, or more people, and as it is set, is actually a model that tries to recognise the existing state, which is the fact that in many places we have organised tourism societies, but tourist societies are not "one man band". These are local communities of people of goodwill who have gathered to promote the tourism interests of their own region. Once upon a time, it could have been organised as a legal person, so in the meantime it changed its role, but the fact that as it was written it was not a society, but a branch because society has no legal personality, no budget, no body management, therefore it is only actually an employee of the city's tourist office. Furthermore, in the tourist community of the area, the question is, what are we going to do with the areas where we now have so-called. Voluntary tourist communities? Otherwise, Mr. Chairman, as far as I know, this is a united debate and is measured differently, not individually by law. Thank you very much. For example, we now have in one region in three municipalities, or cities have tourist communities run by volunteers. In fact, this law should have set up a certain line for them, among other things, and told them within what time period they must either be established under this law as a professional structure or agreed with those in the region on the establishment of a regional tourist community. Furthermore, this is not just about islands and rivieras. Don't forget that we have some areas that are simply administratively divided by Croatia scattered between several counties. How old is Lika County? How long is Turopolje County? How many counties are Moslavina in? How many counties is Croatia Zagorje? These are just some possible examples. As regards this deadline for the adoption of the annual work programme and the financial plan, it is somewhat illogical that a non-profit organisation, which is a tourist organisation, has special conditions than those conditions that otherwise rule and apply to non-profit organisations according to our existing regulations. Namely, the tourist community as a non-profit association, i.e. a non-profit organisation, or an organisation that conducts business and bookkeeping under the rules on non-profit organisations, is obliged to submit a financial report to the competent authority of the state administration, or to the State audit, by 28 or 29 years after Wednesday, February. It is not clear here why the tourist council must submit proposals by 31 October for a new plan to someone who has to deliver 31. 12, and then there it is said that a member of the congregation has to get it eight days before the deadline, to bring it in. Perhaps this deadline from October 31st is actually too high, if it is already said that the tourist community must establish its work plan and financial plan by 31st. 12., then it is understood, especially with this clause on calling the Assembly itself that it must be done at least 8 days before the level of the tourist council. Therefore, Article 63, which also states that the Assembly of the Tourist Community is due every year by the end of March of the current year to produce an annual financial report for the previous year. It seems to me that this is a new deadline, when it is known that the state audit must be submitted by the end of February, then it is impossible for the assembly to change it all if it wants to. It's a given document. Either he adopts it before the end of February, or there's no influence on him. Furthermore, that is where we now return to this issue of the president. In Article 70, he said, "If a supervised tourist community is found to be acting contrary to the provisions of this law, the Ministry or the Croatian Tourist Board may order the supervised tourist community to launch a procedure to resolve the directors of the tourist office, president and members of the body of the supervised tourist community.". The president of this kind of formula you can't, you can't get rid of him. Furthermore, Article 71 said: "If he does not elect a president in the municipality, the city and the county."there is no such thing, because he was not chosen, he was appointed. This is mostly what would be good, which should be pointed out in this law, if you allow just a few more words, when it comes to the House Tax Act. It's also one law that we've had so far which little and different determines the question of schedules, and also defines who actually are payment bonds. Article 3 states: "Citizens who provide accommodation services in a household or a rural household for all persons who are staying in that household or in a rural household", it is a little awkward for you because it may happen to you that the owner of a rural household who is in the status of a craftsman has a working man who works on his winehouse, in his kitchen, in his business plant and who sleeps, or has a settled accommodation, because it is a settlement 20 km away from his town, it is such shifts where he can work late, and will you then treat him as a person who has to pay a residence tax, probably not, but this is how it turns out to be. Furthermore, in Article 4, we talk about holiday home owners and members of their family, if the holiday house is the original old family house acquired by an heir who had the last residence in the tourist municipality or town when nights in that house. What does the old family home mean originally? Someone, playing with building styles, and a hundred years ago, could have built an eclectic structure that you can't imagine under the original building, an old original family house, or actually thought, not in a style and cultural sense, but in the fact that someone built a house on the naked ground in time to live in it. Well, then you're asked what's wrong with the other heirs. Is it just this one person who inherited the inheritance, and if she had otherwise arranged an inheritance order with her brothers or sisters, or an inheritance of real estate, in what way does she have the right and others do not? Or we move on, it's said, so it's foreclosed to the benefits of people whose last living parent died of age in his own house, but if by chance a month before he died because of the need for care he moved to a son or daughter in another town and signed up to be able to achieve health care and die with them from this story. Furthermore, in Article 8, I ask to clarify the meaning of a straight line, whether it is daughters, sons, fathers, and mothers, or it is a horizontal line, because this is how it turns out that everyone is freed except for children and parents, those who own the house. In Article 9, in paragraph 2, I'm just asking, are hunting, mountaineering homes, reconnaissance camp and what about the client, how we formulate the client, since we know that a few dates a year can come under the influence of that 0.5-promised law, although it's officially abolished, then it's healthier to sleep in a client's night than to go home, so I'm wondering if we're obliged to pay a residence tax? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22143	On behalf of the SDP Club, distinguished colleague, Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22144	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. There's always a reason why certain laws are passed, or the laws we have so far are changed, so there's always a reason. Or time has passed some of the provisions of the old law, so in life some other things should happen, so that it should be regulated by novels or new laws so that the life we live will also be embroiled into these laws. But it is therefore very interesting how this set of tourism laws is obtained in a way that those affected by this law, those to whom this law has some kind of reprecision, have no idea that these three laws are in the process of this Parliament. Like what? The tourist community, except for the Croatian Tourist Board, and she, as far as I heard, didn't know two days before this came to this Parliament's agenda what kind of law it would be. The tourist communities of cities, municipalities and counties did not discuss or give their opinion, but they also did not give their opinion either to the Croatian Employers' Association, which is also the law in this time that is ahead of us, and we all say the crisis year is very much concerned by this law. So I would first ask, Mr. Vice President, you can tell me, you are a member of that presidency, perhaps not you personally, but the Presidency of the Croatian Parliament, and you are probably a member, if I speak well, of that presidency, you determine what is on the agenda of this Croatian Parliament. And I guess that when you set the agenda probably, maybe not you personally, but you probably have someone who then reads what will come on the agenda so it wouldn't be as embarrassing as we now get this set of three of these tourist laws on the agenda for discussion. And you have probably used yourself to suggest to you those who have read this law, that because of the Law on residence tax, which has elements of compliance with European Union legislation, that this law should therefore be passed and those laws, other laws relating to it, should be adopted by an urgent procedure in one reading. And now I just don't understand who's reading it well, whether I'm reading it right or not, but I'm just going to start off with this residence tax bill that all three laws have come into this parliamentary procedure for an emergency procedure because it's supposed to be all about compliance with the European Union. And in this law, I will now read that the Law on Tourist Communities and the Promotion of Croatian Tourism, somewhere at the end of the argument, the Law on residence tax, the Law on Memberships in Tourist Communities, are a package of laws regulating the system of tourist communities and are interlinked. And since the Household Court Act is a law that complies with European Union regulations, it is necessary to adopt all three laws together in order to ensure the regular functioning of the tourism community system. I can understand that because of one law, but these two that are related to that law, we can then talk about the way we bring it, that it is an emergency procedure. However, a few paragraphs above where it says it is because of the European Union, the legislator or the one who has written, but the one who has not read it writes, the residence tax and the law refers to the residence tax as the income of the tourist communities is not particularly regulated by the regulations of the European Community. Now I'm asking if you or anyone is proposing the agenda, you think we're all autistic here, not to read, not to know. Try to explain to me, if it is said that it is necessary to agree with the European Union, with EU legislation, but it is therefore argued that what we agree on with the laws of the European Union is simply not particularly regulated by European Community regulations. I don't understand which, by emergency procedure, regulations are in line with all these three laws. I just don't get it. It is obvious that under the agreement of European laws with our legal regulation, everything and I wonder what the reasons are and why these three laws that are relevant to something we swear, which is our tourism, which is one of the most important industries in Croatia at this moment and most vital, we are passing these three laws by emergency procedure even though we have said on the board that something that is so important for tourism deserves if nothing else, at least for it to enter into another reading so that those to whom this law applies, which are primarily tourist communities, economic operators and others, have the right or the opportunity to manifest itself and to express its opinion that this law would then be applicable, more appropriate to what it will serve. But since that's the case, obviously most of them have raised their hand to be an emergency procedure, I don't understand why, but if that's the case, let's just try it, then here's the tax to go through some of the things that these three laws treat. Let us, of course, stick to this issue of residence tax which is due to which we are bringing it, allegedly by emergency procedure, and this law has in some way been decided to determine the bonds of payment of the residence tax, payment and payment of the residence tax, registration and check-in obligations to the tourist community, criminal provisions etc., etc. The consequences that law will result in more effective payment and payment of residence tax, more rational and more efficient spending of residence tax funds. Nowhere, reading the old law, reading the new law, nowhere but nowhere else, in no article are the consequences that should be these two, more effective charges and more rational, more efficient spending, not exactly treated so that we get it in some way effectively, however. Let me just say that on a small example, where persons staying on board are treated by Articles 13 and 14 and it is said that the tourist tax will be paid in a flat-rate amount, that the boaters are obliged to pay the tourist tax to the tourist community before the vehicle leaves. All five, I agree that it is necessary to mark the tourist community that the form and content and time of validity of the vignette will be prescribed by the minister responsible for tourism. When and how, it will be when it is. But in that same law, there is, in the light of that law, something which is a little bit incomprehensible because it says that Articles 13 and 14 of the prescribed obligations mean that they pay to tourist communities, but it is therefore said that the owner of the vessel for himself and the persons staying on that vessel are resident tax paid in a flat-rate amount and that by buying vignet in the port captainship, prior to the departure of the vehicle. Now I wonder where this German or French boatman will pay that residence fee under this law, to the tourist community, so he'll look for it on land, or he'll pay this to the port captain. And I don't understand why when it's passed the law simply doesn't say the vinjet will be bought at the port captainship, the port captain will forward the money to the tourist community or who needs it. And this is how it's brought into doubt who needs to be paid, who's going to do it, and in any case, I don't know how a stranger is going to do it. But let's go back to one more illogicality that I don't understand what it's going to look like in an operational sense. Of course, then, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will give the authority to determine a portion of the amount of tourist tax paid to the special account of the tourist community by using the collected funds for development projects and programmes for the creation of new tourist programmes in undeveloped tourist areas. I agree, and I support. But legal and natural persons, sailors and people who provide overnight accommodation services on a water facility, so here I'm also talking about the sailors I was talking about earlier, who will buy a vignette, have a 5-member or 6-member family on board. They are said to be charged in a special account, and 50% of these funds are returned to where traffic is being made in nautical tourism. Try to explain to me, I don't know, I don't have a boat, I don't have a yacht, I don't sail, I don't navigate, when a stranger logs into Mali Lošinj and then the road starts I don't know the Kornati islands so it gets to Dubrovnik, how someone will determine where the tax returns where the tourist traffic of that boatman is achieved. It's really unclear how it's going to come back, whether Lošinj went where he bought the vignette, whether on the Kornati islands where he stayed most of the time. I think that this is how we make laws that aren't even readable, let alone that are not operational is quite unserious because it seems to me that in this way we're just making life more complicated for ourselves and that ultimately it won't be much use and it won't be achieved that purpose that I just read earlier. Or in Article 6 of this same law, persons who prove that the right to be exempt from payment of a residence tax accept that, i.e. to pay a reduced amount of residence tax by corresponding documents, by working contract, they can prove it, but then why you write this "similarly". That "similar" is incomprehensible, vague. What can it be? My confirmation I'm gonna give someone, I don't know whose confirmation. What does that mean, "like"? "Such" is not defined, and when something is not defined something similar can be anything and can be anything. And if it is already said about those who sail on ships, it means in this kind of tourism, exceptionally from Article 3 of the Law, residence tax is not paid by children up to 12 years of age, persons with physical disabilities etc. And I don't see any reason why these reliefs wouldn't have those people sailing on board so that even those kids who are there with their parents can also pay that less tax. It's number one, so the law that we're here for has no legal opportunity to come into the first reading, and our proposal is to enable a second reading in any case so that all three laws can be useful and that they can be operational. I repeat, the proposal on memberships in tourist communities, with the final bill is something that my court should have at least at least when you wrote it, you should have gotten some sort of explanation or suggestion of those to whom it most applies. First of all, it refers to those gathered in the Croatian Employers' Association. I think they will be the most damaged by this law, but as they are prescribed what they should pay for and how they should pay for it, it would be good to define something, to also ask them what it will do and how it will affect not only the development of Croatian tourism but their positioning on the international market and what it costs them. For example, if someone calculated how much it would cost companies because we don't have a comparison of what was in the old law, we don't have a comparison of what it would look like in this new law. As we are running out of time, I will try only then and about the Law on Tourist Communities and promoting Croatian tourism, with the Final Proposal of the Law, only a few things to say that have also been solved neither scream nor pass, not at all. First, it is rude to write a new law where it is said that by the time the new law is passed, the legality of the work of tourist communities will increase. That's rude. It implies that so far the tourist communities have not worked legally. I claim that everyone finds audits and supervision of the tourism ministry, HTZ state television does not give the right to treat tourist communities in this way from now on. It is also unclear, here colleagues also spoke earlier, which means managing public tourist infrastructure on a day-to-day management by a unit of local, or regional self-government. We think it is necessary to explain specifically the concept of public tourism infrastructure management, because only within 6 months will the Minister of Tourism adopt regulations that will define governance activities, public tourist infrastructure, and I read at the beginning that will be given by the unit of local self-government. And what if they are not given when you determine who they are, because it is quite unclear who they are, so if they do not give them what they are then. You're going to force them? I'm afraid the local self-government units are going to give little infrastructure to have someone else master and manage it. It is also unclear what it means to promote a tourist destination at the level of the county, independently or through associated advertising, because promotional activities on the foreign market are carried out by the tourist community of the municipality or the city together with the tourist community of the county on which it is submerged, and only exceptionally independent of the basis of the special decision of the tourism council of the tourist community of the county. Therefore, and in Article 2(2), the legislator provided for the obligation to promote promotional activities in the country and abroad of these small tourist communities, so it is not clear how the tourist community of places, municipalities or cities will promote their territory abroad because in any case few are given the right to go there, then they are prohibited in this way. And let me tell you, I'm running out of time to say it. Oversight, surveillance in this case says both the ministry and supervision of the work of tourist communities will be done by the ministry and the tourist community. But who will oversee the Croatian Tourist Community except the Minister and the Ministry, it is not said. I suggest that then this Croatian Parliament also has some insight into what it is doing in the Croatian tourist community that at least it is appropriate to be similar or equal to these legal solutions that are being said here. And tell me or equal to these legal decisions that have been made here. And tell me in all of these fees if I remember correctly, and somewhere I remember, we've singled out 1% for the Red Cross. You've obviously forgotten him here. That means we don't stand out for the Red Cross anymore or still remain the one under the old law, or we'll find out by the new law that we're paying 1% for the Red Cross. Thank you very much. Yeah. For this reason, I will say to the SDP representative's club that we should have been pushed into something that should have gone into another procedure with an incoherent explanation that it is because of Europe which is not true, because the legislator said that this is not treated by the European Union and that as much as possible by those to whom this law applies, we will not support this proposal until it comes to another reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22145	Thank you, colleague. You have certainly studied the Rules of Procedure on questions you have asked, and you know that Article 37 of the Presidency sets out a draft agenda. It was then found in Article 159 that there could also be an addition to the agenda during the sitting. The addition as well as the basic agenda will be voted on. may be a proposal for the urgency of the debate, i.e. a debate in one reading and adoption. It's all been done. That's what the vote was about today. Therefore, I mean when it comes to how something is brought into line with the Rules of Procedure. We have applications to correct the allegations. Honored colleague of parliament, Sunday's Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22146	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I'm correcting two false allegations, Mr. Denona's representative, who says that the text of these laws is shameful and that the laws are also unreadable. Mr. Denona, it's not exactly one or the other. I, as mayor of the city, who is developing towards the city in tourist activity, express my satisfaction with such a quality package of tourism laws between which one is in line with European laws that will definitely contribute to better, rational use of funds, urban resources within tourist communities, and also contribute to the quality of the tourist product. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22147	Thank you very much. To correct the allegations, the distinguished representative, Gary Capelli, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22148	Honored Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Mr Denona said he did not see the consequences that the law would result in, where this more effective collection of rationalisation is, etc. I'd say she's only in two copies. In Article 19, it also works in Article 20. Thank you very much. One of the copies. There's more.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22149	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party, distinguished colleague Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22150	Mr. Vice President, MPs, MPs and Mr. Secretary of State. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party will support the Proposal for a Law on Tourist Communities and the Promotion of Croatian Tourism, the Final Proposal of the Law on Memberships in Tourist Communities, and the Final Proposal of the Law on Tourist Taxation. But before I say a few sentences about how we at the HSS Representatives Club are looking at these proposed laws. I'd like to tell Mr. Minister to congratulate you and your associates on an extremely good tourist season. Since we see much stronger and visited destinations both at European and global level, they have failed to keep their guests. I think that, of course, the Ministry of Tourism together with the Government of the Republic of Croatia has taken concrete and timely measures in this crisis, a financial crisis that certainly did not bypass Croatia either. What we would certainly like to point out is that tourism contributes with 20% of gross national income and can certainly be considered as one of the important parts of the economy from that point of view. Certainly, it should also be said that if we want that 20% of the GDP coming from tourism to the next year, that increased tourism promotion should be promoted in foreign markets and that there should be a number of other different measures, and above all they must be based on the cooperation of the public and private tourism sector in order to repeat in 2009 the results of this tourist year, i.e. tourist results, but in order to be more successful and can also achieve an increase in the number of tourists, which means that we expect these measures that the Ministry of Tourism will implement to be more aggressive and active, as well as to include both the public and private sectors on the foreign market, but also on the domestic market, and to join the funds of state tourist institutions and tourism companies in order to truly repeat the recorded successes. Of course, it is quite clear that if we haven't changed the existing legislation for 15 years, that in these 15 years, very much has changed in Croatia. The trends have changed, the territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia has changed, the perception of tourism itself, the organisational forms have changed, other laws that have very much implications for these laws that we are talking about today. For this reason, the fact is that the Law on Tourist Communities and the Promotion of Croatian Tourism and the Law on Memberships in Tourist Communities and the Law on residence tax should also be brought into line with other legal regulations and these laws should meet today's challenges. Of course, what should be said clearly is the problem of Croatian tourism, which is the lack of vertical and horizontal communication between the private and public sectors. There are, of course, many media ventures that remain isolated because there is not enough strong and mutual coordination. Of course, the situation is much better today than it was a few years ago. But the process of communication between tourism entities needs to be strengthened. Here we see exactly the key role of the Ministry of Tourism itself. Why does it matter? Because, through tourism, people perceive the country and the nation, and tourism also plays one of the key roles in sustainable development, which is certainly imperative today. It is an industry that touches the public and private sphere and only if those two spheres are combined then can we say that tourism in Croatia is certainly doomed to success. We at HSS think it is no longer enough to introduce ourselves at the fair, to look for new trends, to be innovative, to be creative, to be original, and to do so in any case requires people and to have extremely good communication. That is why we think that these laws are very welcome, that they are desirable, that they aim to eliminate certain shortcomings because we know, for example, that the Croatian Tourist Board has spent most of the money on marketing so far, that offices around the world have opened up even though trends are being recorded to grow on line booking and there we can say that the example is Adriatica.net and others. This is why we see that new products should be directed and developed, and we think that this proposal for a package of laws does, because the Croatian Tourist Board focuses on product development and receives a new mission, which is a responsibility for the state of quality. First of all, we think of the importance of developing the tourism infrastructure itself, which has proved to be an imperative and has not been spent enough time on this. In Croatia, the average burden on the coast is 560 thousand people a day, which is a large number of people. We also record 56 million overnight stays a year. Tourists in Croatia spent 6 billion euros and also on the other hand we have data on 900 thousand beds, so it seems to us that it is very important in the context of this debate and mention one segment, which is the introduction of a carrying capacity, i.e. to finally establish the capacity to carry out what Croatia needs, how much Croatia can bear, and what we still have to do from the infrastructure and so far is not organised. I believe that ministers that the tourism development strategy that you are making will provide answers to some of these questions because it seems important to us in the HSS Club to actually put tourism for sustainable development and keep these extremely good results that have been recorded over the past years, but especially this year, which is a significant success in view of the crisis we have found ourselves in. It is our opinion in the HSS that the tourist communities and they have 330 in Croatia must take care of the interests of all, therefore not just the hotelers. Of course, in the interests of hotelers, caterers, craftsmen, travel agencies, and citizens in a city or some place. And so far there have been a lot of complaints that it is not so, or that mainly the tourist communities represented hoteliers because the hoteliers did the greatest work and filled their budget. We believe that mayors or mayors will best reconcile the interests of all, so this role given to them by the new law, which is to be in some way the main persons in the tourist communities and we think that this provision will lose an alibi for the development of tourism, which has often been the case so far. Therefore, this additional responsibility of the mayor, Commissioner, when it comes to the strategy and promotion of tourism must certainly be given its place, and this package of laws provides for it. The law adopts another important paper so that the tourist communities are naturally non-profit legal entities and are unable to deal with economic activities give them the opportunity if local authorities give them to manage or leave the infrastructure in their city to manage the infrastructure and can take over. This means that in some cases tourist communities could manage public beaches, ski resorts, swimming pools, and that would be good because of the fact that finally various privates who do not do the job well have adequate competition. And we think the law finds good solutions in that segment. In addition, the tourist community will be able to organise various events and sell souvenirs and even arrange trips if there are no travel agencies in the centre. What is known concerns the financing of tourist communities, which were mainly financed from residence fees and membership fees that are due to pay both businesses and banks, and craftsmen. From these sources, 455.7 million kuna was collected last year. It's a quarter of it in Istrian County. After that comes the Primorje-Gorski County with 75.2 million kuna and Zagreb where 73.2 million kuna is collected. The law stipulates that, as so far, 65% of these funds belong to the tourist community of the municipality or city on whose territory the income is collected, 10% gets the county tourist community and 25% Croatian tourist community. The new news is that the tourist communities in which the collection of less than 200 thousand kuna on residence fees and the same amount on membership fees do not have to give that 25% of the money to the Croatian tourist community but are obliged to 20 % to be paid into the budget of the county tourist community and there remains 80% of the funds that we think are extremely important because it will make it important to make it easier for them to function. And what I want to say in conclusion is that we in HSS really expect this package of tourism laws as well as the laws that are passed in agriculture and the budget that we are going to talk about tomorrow to finally give us one space to connect green and blue fields. This has been said for many years, but there is no concrete indication of the desired results on the ground. I have already said several times on behalf of the HSS club that we in the HSS think that this crisis may be a chance to place a Croatian agricultural product in tourism because tourists spend 6 billion euros annually in Croatia. What we expect in HSS and what we would certainly like to see is that in those 6 billion euros spent by tourists in Croatia, most of that money is related to Croatian products, not Chinese souvenirs, beef from Argentina, milk powder from Bosnia and Herzegovina, vegetables from Spain or Greece, and so on or that the caterers simply did not have that adequate contact between the producers of agricultural products themselves and people who are engaged in hotel and catering are reaching out for large trade chains, consumables, lids, marbles or similar. So we think this is an excellent opportunity, that this package of tourism laws goes for the fact that Croatian product really is better placed in tourism. We believe in HSS that our producers can also produce enough quality agricultural products that meet standards and are certainly better than what is very often placed on our guests, and we also believe that this has been confirmed on the Days of Croatian Tourism in Opatija that our hosts and hotelers are also ready to give that hand to the community and that they are ready, with adequate government intervention, to link what we are constantly talking about and that is a blue and green field. Ministers wish you and your associates a lot of success because next year certainly brings many challenges not only for Croatian tourism, but above all for Croatian tourism. The HSS Club will support this package of laws and I believe that these proposals that we have made quite seriously on the integration of agriculture, the integration of tourism, the opening of the possibility that several hotels on the Adriatic are being placed and organic products produced from our rural households and agricultural products, that they will certainly find understanding in the Ministry of Tourism, but also in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and that we will see concrete results in this respect next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22151	Thank you. We have one correction. Mr. Representative Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22152	Dear Mr. President, I'd like to correct only one false allegation, I won't say there are more but here are my colleagues, a distinguished colleague, of course by thanking her minister, has claimed that this is public tourist infrastructure management something that is very good. She even listed some segments that should be public tourist infrastructure. It's just not true. This is in Article 10, because what is considered public tourist infrastructure will be prescribed by the Minister of Special Regulation. Even the minister doesn't know what it is yet, but he's going to prescribe it with a special rule, so it's not exactly so because a special rule by a minister can prescribe anything. And that's why I'm saying that the laws like this are inadmissible because it's supposed to be in the law. What is legally regulated to know and to know precisely if we want to have quality laws in Croatia rather than depend on what the minister will prescribe with his special rule. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22153	Thank you. At 16,04, it was time to sign up for 10 minutes. Now he's Mr. Representative Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22154	Dear President, Ministers, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Well, it is generally good to adopt after 15 years the new Law on Tourist Communities and the promotion of Croatian tourism but the question of whether in this law we gave the best proposals we could. My opinion is that we could have done better, and that's what I was talking about on the Tourism Committee. Instead of trying to have as many people as possible in tourist communities as possible and who have experience in tourism, we do the opposite. In Article 18 of this proposal, the law states that the duties of the president of the city's tourist community, the municipality is being exercised by the mayor or the mayor and the duties of the president of the tourist community and the mayor's county. It's all just not professional and quality. It is called politicizing, and I believe that the mayors, mayors and mayors will not be able to carry out this function in a quality way because most of them have no experience because they will certainly not have time and will to perform this function in a quality way. The tourist community will be a controversial function for which it will not be sufficiently pawned, and we will certainly not gain quality in the work of tourist communities. The following proposal is that the Director of the Tourist Board or of the Office, other than the fulfilment of the specific conditions laid down in Article 21(5) of this Act, must have a professional examination for working in the Tourist Office. It also states that a person who performs the job of a tourist office director who has 10 years of employment on tourism jobs does not have to have a professional exam. And what are the jobs in tourism that give the person the right to be in the workplace without a professional examination? It is not good that someone has to take a professional exam for the same job and another person 10 years older or more experienced does not have to pass that professional exam. You are also aware that there is a tourist community "North Zagorje" in Varazdin County, which was formed by the rounding of the tourist communities of the two towns of Ivanca, Leposlava and two municipalities of Bednja and Ekleonika, and the tourist community of the cities and municipalities above have crossed or established tourism societies that now operate in the same areas as before the tourist community while the tourist community "North Zagorje" operates in the area of the northwestern part of the Varazdin County. Tourist companies are financed by the amount from membership fees and residence fees. Tourist taxes are at an annual level in this region of 6 thousand kuna while the only main income from membership fees of about 120 thousand kuna. In this law you propose to keep this income from membership fees and residence fees in 50% of the amount in tourist society and to distribute the rest to the Croatian Tourist Board and the Tourist Board of the Varazdin County. Do you think that these tourist societies will be able to survive with half the amount of the community budget anyway? They are not in the same position as the tourism community at sea and on the continent. By such law, we will destroy 70% of tourism communities and societies in the continental part of Croatia. Article 21 speaks of a regulation that prescribes specific conditions regarding professional training, work experience, language skills and other specific skills that must be met by persons in the tourist office and brought by the minister. It is not good to wait with that rule or not to prescribe in the law a time limit for the adoption of such a rule, because if it is in a hurry with this law that goes according to an emergency procedure, I consider that it is also a rule that prescribes special conditions. It is also not good to distinguish between persons who will act as director of the tourist community. The law stipulates that persons who have the right professional training and at least 10 years of employment on tourism jobs in this case do not have to have the expert exam I was talking about. And at the end of my presentation, I must say that I am not satisfied with the whole bill and that I have submitted several amendments and I sincerely hope that the promoter will accept some of these proposals and in order to make the quality work of tourist communities both at sea and in the continental part of the country. Furthermore, the Final Proposal for a Law on residence tax has several proposals that I believe will not contribute to improving the work of tourist communities but rather to the contrary. I'll list which ones are that and try to explain it. Article 3 refers to who pays the residence tax. Among other things, according to this new law, this new law will be paid by the owners of a house or a holiday apartment in a tourist municipality or a city that is not an accommodation within the meaning of this law for itself and by all persons who are staying in that house or apartment. The reason is that the owners of houses and holiday apartments are not residents of the municipality or the city where the property is located, and the damage to the property is to meet their own tourist needs for which they have estimated that they can satisfy them most fully using the general tourist services and benefits of the tourist municipality or the city in which the property is located. Accordingly, like other visitors of the tourist municipality and the city, they must pay a tourist tax. It is unacceptable for house owners and apartments to pay all other fees, communal fees and taxes to charge a residence tax to any extent or percentage. In addition, Article 4(4) of this proposal refers to members of the family, and point 7 of the family members. Later in Article 8, it is listed who is considered family members within the meaning of this law, but I have not seen any explanation of who they are or may be the same, but in that case it should also be written in the law. It also states in Article 19 that out of the paid residence fees paid by passengers who use waterfront accommodation services, only 40% of the resources will be paid to tourist communities in whose areas tourist traffic is achieved. I think it is wrong for the Croatian tourist community to raise 50% of the amount of money from the abovementioned tourist fees, but to pay at least 70% of the funds to the tourist communities because they also use large funds to improve the conditions of development and promotion of nautical tourism, not just the Croatian Tourist Board. Article 21(5) sets out strictly one person in charge of carrying out a list of persons staying in an area. If this is so strictly determined, it means that the tourist community in the office should only have one person employed on the registration of guests, which is simply impossible. I'll give you one example. In the area of the Varazdin County of 7 tourist communities in them 5 only 1 person works because there are no financial resources for additional employment. It is feasible in tourist communities that have large budgets, but on the continent it is impossible to achieve it. With such decisions, we will destroy a large number of tourist communities. I hope that's not your goal. And at the end of my presentation on residence fees, I would like to know what are the criteria for how it is described in the explanation the collected funds from residence fees are allocated purposely to development projects and programmes for the creation of new tourism programmes in undeveloped tourist areas. In the Law on Memberships of Tourist Communities, I would only mention one problem. In Article 12, I quote: “The legal and physical person pays the membership fee in the area of the municipality, the city or Zagreb where he is established, and for business units in the area of the municipality or the city where he is the headquarters of a business unit. The problem is that the Tax Law states that certain entities are obliged to pay taxes according to the place where the company is registered, and it has often happened and is still happening that the tax administration has not taken care of where a particular branch of an entity is and whether it paid the membership fee in the right place. This is how it happens that large companies with large plants in Varazdin County especially do not pay the fees to our tourist communities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22155	Thank you. Mr. Representative Sima Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22156	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, I don't know any of us, and I think that in one way or another, we've been tied or interested in one important activity, as is important for our country, then we expect that when these three laws come before us, first of all, in certain calculations, that is, how you want to see whether these laws and those solutions offered by this law will contribute to the improvement of tourism activity, that is, I would dare to show myself and establish order in that activity or order more than it has. So let's say one question. I'm interested in whether or not to charge a stay tax, I read here that even up to 30% have unreported guests. Whether these laws will allow, for example, that residence tax is better charged or whether these laws will prevent individual tourist entities from manipulating the funds they receive from the fees for months. Then if you have this kind of inflation, that's what they earn, and that's how they damage the wider community, so if you want the tourist activity. Actually, I have to say, I'm disappointed with the content of these laws. Why? Because when you compare them with that proposal that was in this House, it seems to me that at the end of 2003 you will see that these solutions contained in these proposals, especially in the Law on Tourist Communities, are actually no better. Let's even say for me from those 2003 solutions that were dropped, some things that would be more effective for improving and promoting Croatian tourism where and where better and for me, according to my humble assessment than the existing solutions are now offered. Now. First of all, I think it's inadmissible, and that's what some colleagues used to say before me that in fact, a set of laws like this really mattered to me very quickly. I don't understand why it's important to pass these laws by the end of this year or bring this Friday when we know that their application will go much later and it will actually take a bigger period of time and adjustment, at least in one part. Then why haven't we tried in a certain way to include all the entities of the especially tourist community, so if you want a certain part of the tourist staff who are interested in the solutions offered in this law. So, right now, you're going to start with some conjecture, and there's this thing that's not right when it breaks over your knee. Therefore, I would ask if the applicant is not already interested in prolonging this whole story, at least pay attention to the amendments that the Committee on Tourism has submitted, because I think at least one part of the shortcomings in this set of laws, so these amendments are being resolved. Now what bothers me first is in these laws, and I say especially in the Tourist Community Act. So the rule is that any problem is best solved by people in this problem, or by experts. Well then, I expected that the intensity of these laws would actually go towards greater professionalisation in the sense that this problem would be dealt with by experts, and that this problem, in fact, the issue of tourism and tourism activities would be brought down among those people who need to act and carry out certain activities to make tourism more successful. A team earlier to point out that we are expected to have a likely turbulent time in tourism because of recession and everything else. I am not convinced that Croatian tourism will stay at the level of this year for next year. I'm afraid of a more significant fall, but let's play it right now. So, it seems to me that these laws are going towards, so I would dare say to one type of centralization of the whole story, to add more politicization. For the simple reason I could take a few examples, some colleagues spoke of it. We've been listening to this story about mayors, mayors and mayors who become presidents in office, presidents of congregations of tourist communities. I personally don't think that's a good solution. On the other hand, you have, why is not good, this is one argument, on the other hand, you have the opportunity to have the supervision of the tourist community carried out only from the central, or from Zagreb, so I am doing the Ministry and the Croatian Tourist Board and that de facto they can disband the assembly of the tourist community, there are reasons why they can do it, but at the same time the question is what is with the president of the tourist community. I mean, what kind of situation he's in right now is like a person who's chosen by the people and where this congregation is disbanded. I think there, look out, and maybe somehow what you're disbanding would go away, but then name the Commissioner. Now, what is this commissioner? What role does he play in the congregation? What's his relationship with the former or current president? Okay, with the director of the office and so on and so on. So it seems to me that, without need, we have entered into a story that has not been brought to an end and is not resolved because since you, I cannot interpret it differently, but when it comes to the president of the tourist community, in fact, that it will come to a political story in one way or another, and that is not good. Or, say, I don't know when you're talking about the president, or the director of the office. Now you see, that's when and why he is in conflict of interest. What about other people, or employees, if you want officials within this tourist community who may be in conflict of interest? Here, I'm interested in whether the president of the tourist community can be in conflict of interest? You got it. Here, let's say, if he's in conflict of interest, let's say, Mr. Cappelli could never be mayor because as such he's scheduled to be president of the tourist community, he's dealing with something of a tourist activity, he can't be who he is. So it seems to me that you can't just put the director in one position, the president in the other and so on and so on. If I tried to shorten the story when it comes to the Law on Tourist Communities, I think a series of ambiguities, especially those I was talking about, would be dealt with the following way. Since there are different tourist products in Croatia, as there are different types of tourism, there are different forms of interest in tourism. I don't know why it didn't go to a wider procedure in this sphere and try to categorize the tourist communities in a certain way, and one guy was a community, I don't know in a big city like Dubrovnik and Opatija otherwise would be, I don't know, on Mljet, and yet the third guy would be somewhere in Slavonia. And then there might actually be some things that are probably listed here in the law that would be worth one smaller form or a smaller level of organized so that tourist community, but others would not be worth it again. So I think it went into this business to actually be fulfilled, to satisfy some form. How to define, and to get back to activity, it seems very important to me. So how do you define this activity of the tourist community? In an article on what the tourist community is doing, I am interested, among other things, in souvenirs, monographs, and so on, in fact, in what does that mean? Because again depending on the environment where this tourist community works, where there's a similar thing can be, I don't know from selling ferry tickets because there's nowhere to buy a ferry ticket, but it can be a sale of plane tickets, even though it's not supposed to work for me. So it seems to me that a whole series of undefined things are listed in this law. Here, I can only finally express my belief that the promoter will, in good faith, understand those amendments that we discussed on the Tourism Committee on two occasions, as well as all these proposals, because I think it is in everyone's best interest to get the best solutions from the problems that these laws deal with, not just because they are waiting for us, as I have said in my mind the difficult times in tourism, but for the simple reason. In fact, these laws can be made by me at least one motivational story for tourism activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22157	Thank you, too. Two corrections. First, Mr. Luke Denon. Here you go. Replica. Did they have a replica or something?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22158	Replica, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22159	There you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22160	Well, of course, you're absolutely right when you claim that these laws, too, but look back at one in particular they're not defined. And that is why we were about to go into another reading to try out those to whom this law refers to trying to define some of the ambiguities that the new law puts on the market again. Because if it is claimed that the work of the Supervisory Board is mainly about the acceptance of financial reports that produce professional services, this body does not in practice have any effect on the work and operation of the tourist community. Then it needs to be lifted, if that's what it says. But on the other hand, it is said that there is also control by the ministry, surveillance where a special body will be set up by the ministry, and the Croatian Tourist Board to control the work and regularity of the work of tourist communities. I don't think that makes any sense, so let's get these monitoring committees out of the way and let's keep them out of business if they don't do anything like that. Also, for example, in this law it is claimed that, I will not talk about the mayors, about the mayors and about who, about the mayors. Here is Mr. Minister under this law you are the President of the Tourist Board, the President of the Assembly and the President of the Tourist Council. Well, I think you're in a bit of a conflict of interest, because cadiya judges and cadiya, as I would explain, and you're the assembly, both the president of the assembly and the president of the tourist council. But also hypothetically, I say hypothetically, the reasons why the tourist community can be disbanded are here, so illegal work that I'm not saying it now, probably not going to be, but it says the rest of the work. Is it hypothetical, Mr. Minister, that if most members of the Croatian Tourist Board find themselves not alone to be self-critical and something from the domain itself, they will try to replace you because you are responsible. That means hypothetically you have to change yourself. So give it some work to make it clearer, but hypothetically you have to change yourself, because you're both a congregation and a minister and a council president and I don't know what you're not. That's what I think is wrong and that's why I said it's not consistent, that it needs to be fixed and that it needs to go to another reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22161	Mr. Shime Luchin's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22162	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Denona, you're on the trail, and you're the only one who called it a little different what I called politicization. Actually, a civilization step should at least go in the direction of letting the waist run the whole story, right? We're actually introducing politicians now, so from mayor, chief to minister into it all together. On the other hand, we ask from the administrators, directors and all the employees in that tourist community that they must be experts, that they must be state-owned and I don't already know what kind of exams, and now there's a little discrepancy. Now I can understand that the director of the tourist community in Dubrovnik must speak five languages and have six professional exams, but I really don't understand in one Zagorje village which has two rural economies in fact and two sights that first of all the director of the office should be a professional, that he should have professional staff and that he would have to take a professional exam. Because de facto will eat not only what it earns and expensive as a tourist community but it will actually be, it will come out in a certain way. And that's why I think a series of questions that we've heard here, and I'm sure we'll hear them, actually is at least categorizing two basic types of these tourist communities let me call them that, big and small.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22163	Thank you. We have one correction. Mr. Gary Cappelli, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22164	Correction is, Mr. Shime Luchin said that for example I couldn't be president of the tourist community or mayor, because I'm allegedly in conflict of interest because I have a tourist agency. However, by virtue of the Law of Conflict of Interest, I have long resolved it, and I can be one and the other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22165	Thank you. It is up to Mr. Ponzimir Puljic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22166	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the honourable representatives of the motion, Mr. Minister. Three legislative proposals that are before this House, the Proposal for a Law on Tourist Communities and the Promotion of Croatian Tourism, the Proposal for a Law on residence tax, the Proposal for a Law on Memberships in Tourist Communities, are linked to each other so that they really form a functional and legal package that prescribes the establishment and operation of a system of tourist communities. This is necessary for their compliance, and this means, at the same time, changes and additions, which in this case, given the numerous changes so far and the addition of existing laws with the right to choose the form of new legislative proposals in order to avoid the transparency and incomprehensibility of this very important legislation. As so far, tourist communities are legal persons in whom concepts meet and co-operate in the public and private sectors for the purpose of developing, acting and promoting Croatian tourism as important economic activities in which they pursue their interests. Mandatory forms are, according to Article 4 of the new legal proposal, the tourist community of the municipality or city, the tourist community of the area in which the tourist communities of municipalities and cities are not established, the tourist community of the City of Zagreb, the tourist community of the county and the Croatian tourist community as a roof organisation for the territory of the Republic of Croatia. But mandatory tourist communities are possible, the law predicts them but with the previous consent of the ministry and provided that the means of operation are provided by the municipality or city from their budgets. Mandatory members are also bonds of payment of membership fees, which are legal and natural persons who generate income by providing services in tourism or with tourism directly related activities. The amount of membership fees was determined by the draft membership laws in tourist communities and these tourist resorts are classified as so far in four classes A, B, C and D, with all settlements above 30,000 inhabitants now in class A. The rate of the membership fee depends on the activity group and the tourist class and on the rate of the total income. The tax administration is empowered to supervise the payment of membership fees to legal and physical persons, and the Ministry of Oversight in tourist communities. The bodies of the tourist community are a congregation of the tourist community of the municipality, city, etc. while the Assembly at national level is called the National Assembly of the Tourist Board. The tourist council is the executive body of the tourist community, the supervisory board also exists under this law-proposed structure. The president of the tourist community is a special institution, and the paper is that the president of the tourist community is in office, so not so far as the selection of members of the assembly but as mayor, or mayor. These have avoided the unsolicited situations that have occurred so far. The duplication between local self-government and the assembly of the tourist community and the inability and choice and functioning that actually the entire system has been holding back. The activities of tourist communities and in this as well as in the current law are based on general utility, but this law proposes and brings the exception of possible commercial action, and the tourist community can manage tourism infrastructure, organise events and events, conduct commercial ads in its votes, give souvenirs, tourist maps and guides, intercede in booking accommodation if there is no travel agency in this place. There is also an obligation of professional examination for working in the tourist office for the director, as well as for professional workers. The residence tax law determines how payments, conditions and obligations of this most issued income for the activities of tourist communities. They've been detained from the law so far by a good solution, by a pause for private renters, and by a vignette for boaters. And here, after 14 years of functioning of the tourism community system, it has been shown that this system is a good, animator and promoter of Croatian tourism, but the shortcomings that have also been identified have also been shown and this legislative proposal has tried to address these shortcomings. I think the solutions are good. I support the adoption of this law and I also support the urgent procedure in order to show the improvements it brings already in this next tourist season.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22167	Thank you. Ms. Representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22168	Thank you very much, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In order to strengthen and promote Croatian tourism, which represents a public interest as well as economic legal and physical persons, which is the interest of the private sector, tourist communities as a legal person have been established. The law requires mandatory but equally optional forms. The objectives are to encourage the development of an existing tourism product, as well as new products, to develop awareness of the importance and effects of tourism with particular emphasis on environmental protection to create good assumptions for tourism. The achievement of income from residence tax, membership fees, budgets, loans and voluntary revenues cannot be engaged, of course it is their main, i.e. the main basis of how they are financed, but also cannot deal with activities and which make direct profits, and cannot play a role in the core capital of a company. They can sell souvenirs, tourist tickets, guides for better quality services. But it is important to say that after 14 years of law enforcement, the system has proved many advantages, but the tourist communities have also strengthened and now it is time to work on a more rational structure and use of funds. Oversight should also be improved, better co-ordinated in the connection system of tourist communities, as well as the number of workers in tourist communities and the number of body members. The purpose of the new law is also to contribute to the overall quality of the tourist product, and the Croatian model of tourist communities is similar, very similar to the Austrian model. The law already said that the president of the tourist community becomes the mayor of the municipality, the mayor, or mayor, depends on the unit of local, or regional self-government for which it was founded. So far, it has been a person elected by the assembly on a proposal from the municipal or city chiefship, and the president of the county tourist community has been a member of the county headship in charge of tourism. And we think that this is a better solution now, because practice has shown that there have often been disagreements, because the assembly in a number of cases would disagree with the selection of the person proposed by the headship, which created major problems in the work and sometimes blocked the work of the tourist community. This ensures cooperation between the tourist community and the local unit, or regional self-government for the area in which it operates, and also eliminates the possibility of conflict of interest because the duties of directors and employees of the tourist office are incompatible, as well as the response to the previous discussion and the objection to fellow mayor Cappelli, and the supervisory board, as well as the director is prevented from carrying out tourist and catering activities in the area in which the tourist community is established. It also cannot take part in or participate in decisions affecting the financial or other interest of a spouse, child or parent, and the development of tourism must be given special attention to local self-government because it contributes to the greater quality of life of the population, as well as to economic development and cooperate with the tourism community to continue to develop successfully in this area. The point is to act on local and tourist communities and their resources to focus on improving the living conditions of tourism in the community. With this law, economic inspectors will be able to carry out more quickly, more effective inspection because it obliges the tourist community to verify and collect data on the application and check-out of tourist stays during the main tourist season, in order to calculate the payment and payment of the tourist tax. Tourist communities will manage the units of local self-government with public tourist infrastructure, and will participate in defining the policy and development of tourism, and this is also a very important quality at the level of the municipality or the city, to participate in creating conditions for better co-ordination of the public and private sector. There will also be a different assembly composition, so one member cannot have more than one third of the total representatives in the assembly, and thus prevents the power to decide individual entities and to ensure the rational use of funds. The composition of the tourist council, which will be held by the president and eight members from the ranks of members of the tourist community, is also changed, and so far this has not been the case. It is necessary to say that the new law gives greater authority to the Croatian tourism community, directly in relation to the powers so far, both in terms of supervision and in terms of concrete measures authorised to take in the exercise of supervision, which strengthens the system of problem-solving within the system itself. The membership fee is definitely a very significant income of tourist communities, so it is important, of course, is also important to schedule these funds within the complete system. A significantly smaller accommodation capacity in the continental part of the Republic of Croatia results in the fact that the share of the membership fee in the tourism community's income accounts for 80 to 90%, while in coastal counties, the tax is the most important source of income, ranging from 60% to 85% of these laws regulates the obligation to pay membership fees, basics and rates for the accounting and payment of tourist community, payment methods, records, billing and payment as well as the allocation of membership fee to the tourist community, in a way that is distributed with 65% of that tourist community, 10% to the tourist community of the county and 25% to the Croatian tourist community. The exception is made by those tourist communities, and this is the newspaper that we should all praise, which generate gross income less than 200 thousand kuna per year, so membership funds are allocated with 85% of that community and 15% to the county tourist community. But it should also be said that for each business unit outside the seat of a legal or natural person a special basis is established. In addition, the base is reduced by part of the total income obtained in business units outside the tourist resort where the head office and legal or natural person is located. When it comes to tourist resorts, it continues to be classified in four classes. So far, it has been suggested that all settlements with more than 30,000 inhabitants are classified in Class A, so it is important to say that with quantitative criteria, qualitative criteria such as quality of accommodation facilities, infrastructure facilities, order, etc. The IRS would be the one to supervise. And here's the time, it's important to say that residence tax is the highest and most important source of tourism community income, and in 2007, it accounts for more than 62% of the original income. The problems facing the tourist communities so far have been linked to the payment and payment of the residence tax, registration and check-in of tourists and use of residence tax funds, a significant part of the debtors are not, or does not pay residence fees and do not report their guests, so they are not even registered for accommodation service. The owners of houses or holiday apartments and members of their families would pay residence taxes reduced by 70%, and for themselves and members of their family could pay them at a flat rate. One part of the hotel, hotel settlements, port of nautical tourism, for example. charges to tourists that fee, but they do not pay it to the tourist community within the legal period, so they have been using these funds for their own business for a long time. Finally, the 2005 new legislation introduced a new way of paying for private tenants at flat rates and I must say that such a model ensures more efficient, and the payment and payment of a residence tax, better monitoring of tourist traffic, but faster and simpler inspection supervision, and I will support the adoption of these laws in the package. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22169	Thank you. Mr. Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22170	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Mr. Minister, members of the government, the Ministry. Tourist communities are a segment of the overall tourism activity and make a significant contribution to better economic results, because they operate on the ground and have a better overview of the situation on the ground. Tourist communities have been in existence for 14 years and have proved their justification as a segment of this tourist activity, they have done a lot, they have developed, but they have come to a state in which an organization that exists no longer satisfies. There have also been certain deviations compared to the primarily imagined and the time has matured to make certain changes and to supplement the Law on Tourist Communities. However, since the review of all these necessary amendments and the addition of the existing law was such that it represented a lot of what had to be changed and added. It would be more logical to have this result if it were a new law and to discuss it. When I was talking about a certain deviating situation, i.e. a distorted one of the primarily imagined purposes of time, I would point out only a few, quote a few observations about the existing situation, where it is actually seen that in certain segments of the tourist community they cancel out themselves, or they say that they should not work. I will quote: "The assembly of the tourist community is the formal highest body, and as it meets only one or two times a year, it really does not manage the tourist community although its main intention is that." The tourist board of the tourist community is the executive body of the congregation, but actually it is the government, not just the congregation. The Supervisory Board monitors, and in practice there is no impact on what the findings are. The President of the Tourist Board is also the President of the Tourist Board who is practically the one who manages all the tourist problems in a local unit and may happen that his intensities are not in conflict with the interests of local self-government units, but may not work in a way that those who run the local self-government unit can best place their thoughts. And let's say, finally, something important in all things, coordination at different levels of tourist communities, so from the lowest to the Croatian Tourist Board, was not exactly the best, and so often it happened that certain documents, which were at lower levels, were proposed at higher levels, were practically not even read. I am assessing this new proposal of the Law on Tourist Communities with a big and good move forward in terms of increasing the effectiveness of the work of tourist communities and in terms of rationality of their work, and I see the greatest positive shift in the chance given through the fact that at the head of the tourism community a local self-government unit would be the mayor, or mayor, because practically in new conditions and selecting mayors and mayors in direct elections, he is responsible for the entire business problem of his community, his unit of local self-government. And it is logical for each segment through which the economic policy of the unit, the mayor, or mayor, is implemented, to be present, so in this case it is also in relation to the tourist community. In the end, this only proves and confirms one analogy, because it happens at the level of the Croatian tourist community, so why not and at a lower level. So in any case, I think it's a key element of these amendments and additions, or new laws, changes and additions compared to previously said but a new law that would allow it to be more functional. Tourist communities have even begun to deal in certain segments with things that are not competent enough, so let's just say for the organization of a festival, people who have no idea about music and such activity but who don't have as much knowledge as others would be. So the mayor will have a chance to hire someone who knows better for such a segment. Also, tourist communities were almost forbidden to do anything from the concept of their organisation. Now they get specific tasks, they can get specific tasks and carry out these tasks. If we stop at the other two laws that we're looking at in the package and they're part of it because it's coming in and creating a positive working climate, it's a question of residence taxes and membership fees. Of course, all those who have to pay the membership fee to want to pay as little as possible and those who receive those fees would want as much as possible. However, this raises the question in relation to what membership fees are actually given. If someone with their membership fee achieves the results he needs, or if the function of the tourist communities that some members of the tourist community have filled with their membership fee is fulfilled, then it is normal that this membership fee is fully justified and that this member gets his counterservice for it. It is important to say that the ratio of income, the income ratio of tourist communities between those two segments whose budget was charged between residence tax and membership fee is actually almost two-thirds in favour of residence tax rather than membership fees so that a possible increase in membership fees and a long time ago something like this has not happened, has been at the same level of payment and membership fees as annual membership fees are not so dominant in total income. There's a bigger dominant in terms of residence taxis. Therefore, it is directly evident that the direct income of tourist communities is dependent on tourism traffic and should therefore be concluded that they must be very and directly interested in making tourism as much as possible and as good as possible. It is worth the attention that the distribution of membership fees and residence fees has tried to protect those environments that in themselves have not been able to raise enough funds for their work, and if it does not exceed 200 thousand kuna per year, they do not have to give forward to more levels of their contribution than retain complete funds for themselves. One segment I have to point out about the residence tax, which is the interpretation of people who have their own weekends. Namely, it is the wish of the legislator to make residence taxes and people who have their own cottages and stay in the cottages also be subject to anyone else who comes as a tourist. However, I would like to point out something that is still not fully agreed in the Croatian legislation and is likely to be regulated by the amendments to the Law on Spatial Planning. The weekends represent housing, not tourism. They are located halfway between housing and tourism. So, according to their character, these are residential buildings, regardless of whether it's an apartment, apartment or a house, and they're in a function of one recreational apartment, and therefore from the definition of another house and whether someone has the right to another house and whether that other house is mine in Zagreb or my apartment is located in Zagreb could only then be approached and in a precise definition of the tourist tax for those who have that other living space. Thank you for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22171	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Mrs. Representative Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22172	Thank you. Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. The proposal for a residence tax law that we are discussing today is considered extremely unfair according to one group of payers of residence tax, which are owners of houses or apartments for vacation in the tourist municipality or city, which are not accommodation facilities within the meaning of this bill, which, according to this bill as well as the previous ones, must pay a residence tax both for themselves and for all persons who do not want to stay in that house or residence. Because of this injustice, the owners of such facilities and their families are placed in an unfair position in relation to all other taxpayers in the Republic of Croatia cannot support this bill. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia states in Article 14, "All are equal before the law.". However, according to the Law on residence tax, it is not quite so because certain groups of citizens are unfairly taxed twice in this law. How? Simple. And that is ultimately recognised by the legislator himself, the tourism ministry, when in an unmistakable reasoning of the law, I quote: "Article 12 provides for the obligations of the owner of houses and holiday apartments. Tourist tax is essentially a fee for the use of general tourist services and benefits provided to visitors in the tourist municipality or city, which, by their own size and quality, cross the frameworks of the needs of the local population. The owners of houses and holiday apartments are not residents of the municipality or city in which the property is located and the reason for the acquisition is to meet their own tourist needs which they have estimated to be the most completely satisfied using the general tourist services and conveniences of the tourist municipality or the city in which the property is located. Accordingly, like other visitors in the tourist municipality or the city, they must pay a tourist tax.". It would all be nice and wonderful and no one would say a word against it if owners of such facilities would not pay all other fees and taxes throughout the year, which are paid by both persons living and registered in the area. And according to information from citizens and citizens who have contacted me on this bill all these other fees and taxes are not small at all. The explanation that these bonds or bonds are obliged or obliged to pay a residence tax because, again, I quote, "the incentive to acquire and real estate to meet their own tourist needs that they have estimated to be most fully satisfied using the general tourist services and the benefits of the tourist municipality or the city in which the property is located" is just incredibly cynical. In fact, it is these citizens and citizens that, by paying all taxes and fees per year for these facilities throughout the year, the facilities they use perhaps three months a year and probably significantly less generously finance these local self-governments, although their benefits are significantly less advantageous and thus significantly less negatively affecting the consumption of valuable resources. The proposer defends the irrefutable or double taxation of this group of debtors and the following non-stop words: "However, since the owners of houses and holiday apartments pay other public fees and real estate taxes which are the income of a tourist municipality or city in Article 12, it is prescribed that the owner of a house or apartment for rest and members of his family pay a residence tax reduced by 70% and the residence tax may also pay in a flat fee. Oh, please, how incredibly generous of the proposer. The very fact that the residence tax paid by this group of taxpayers or bonds is not excessively high especially if it is paid as a flat-rate and amounts to some 70 kunas does not change anything or that such a provision puts individual citizens and citizens of Croatia in an unequal position in relation to other individuals and thus unfairly discriminate. This bill provides that owners or property owners, if they wish to pay a flat-rate stay tax, must do so by 15 July of the current year at the latest, which is also absurd and discriminatory. Namely, if owners or property owners go to their house at the beginning of the 8th month if they want to pay a flat tax, what? One weekend at 6 or 7 months will have to run into a place where they have real estate in order not to miss the deadline for paying that fee. In this way, pausal is no longer any dating to owners and property owners because the way to a location where they have a property rarely costs 1000 kuna. For all the above, I conclude that this law has the elements of a violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia because it unfairly discriminates against one group of citizens or citizens of the Republic of Croatia and therefore cannot support such an unfair bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22173	Thank you. Mr. Representative Marin Brkarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22174	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues here I will say something very briefly about this I would like to say a significant package of laws, the Law on residence tax and promoting Croatian tourism, about tourist communities or membership. Here I would say that there is a significant package of laws which is more than the total amount of resources in tourist communities at an annual level of 455 million kuna, and certainly there are significant funds, and the tourist communities would say 330, but these are the tourist communities of municipalities, cities, counties, places, areas or Croatian tourist communities have contributed significantly in this past time precisely to the results of each tourist season and this 2008 which we are assessing successfully. In promoting the tourist product and promoting and promoting the destination, it means everything that seeks to increase the quality of the tourist product, but certainly new innovations mean new tourism products, and they also give their sport and participate in the tourism development strategy. It means everything that matters to a tourist country like the Republic of Croatia. Certainly, I will join those who have said that it would be good if this package of laws had come into regular procedure for one basic reason why many and professional associations, but also businessmen, were it craftsmen or companies or the tourist community themselves to give further quality suggestions, the suggestion that this package of laws might be better and more precisely done, given that we have been waiting here for 14 years. We know that the last package of these laws was passed in 1994 or earlier in 1991. Here I would once again point out the overall importance of Croatian tourism as one of the most significant branches of the economy in the Republic of Croatia. I would point out that he's making over 7 billion means 7 billion and 100 million kunas of traffic, and that's certainly important. These laws are important, too, that are directly intruding into the self to say the tourist activity because, fundamentally, what is stated in all of these laws in the segment of the tourist communities is the co-operation of the private and public sector. A few amendments, or a few of my suggestions, are partly contained in the amendments to the committees, but I personally think, as defined in Article 10, that tourist communities should not be engaged in economic activities. There are two exceptions that can be provided when booking accommodation or sales, selling souvenirs, tourist tickets and guides. I think it's just one part of unfair competition because directly in that case, if such a provision were accepted by the tourist communities, they would compete with their members paying membership fees. A lot has already been said about the president of the tourist community. I will only repeat that I advocate that, in addition to the mayors of the municipal or mayors and mayors, they can either determine the person who will be the president of the tourist community, the more we have direct elections for the mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors in May. Headships disappear and we have directly elected deputy mayors or mayors and mayors, so I think it would be good to leave that possibility to the mayors, mayors or mayors that if they estimate they name the person who will replace them as head of the tourist community. This means the president and the assembly and the tourist council. In addition, I propose that in Article 33 where regulated, the number of representatives of the assembly that determines the proportion of each individual member's share is increased to one half, up to one half, so that no one in the assembly can have a monopoly, but that the assembly is certainly representative in some way in terms of the income that a member pays in that assembly. And the next thing I know, it's about the residence tax bill. I would argue that the percentages of the distribution of tourist tax in favour of the county tourist communities are changed in Article 20 in such a way that the funds are reduced to, in part of the Croatian Tourist Board, where 25% is foreseen to 20 and that county tourist communities increase to 15 instead of the current 10%. I think there's a lot of reason for that. Is now the time and opportunity to implement it but certainly you should consider this segment more than the Croatian Tourist Board gets part of the state budget, and on the other hand, the county tourist community is besides the Croatian tourist community significant promoters of the tourist product or tourist destination itself, so I think it would be worth considering that change as well. Here are some suggestions with the amendment committees we've given. Certainly if the amendments are accepted we will support the draft laws that are in the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22175	Thank you. Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. He's gone. Mr. Representative Luke Denon. He's gone. HDSSB representative club, five-minute debate, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22176	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary with Associates. Well, there was already one debate today that defined this part of these three draft laws, the Law on residence tax as one discriminatory law. My colleague almost took my word for it, but I'll explain it my way. And these other two laws and what is invested in our tourism and in the promotion of our tourism and in general in order to say and capital facilities in the field of tourism, I think that, I would not say that our continental tourism is somewhat in a position relative to saying sea or Adriatic tourism. This is also seen by the amounts that I would not quote here right now, but about the amounts that best explain this situation and the differences between continental and marine tourism. And in a situation where we have an economic and financial crisis, when it is on our doorstep if not more than that that affects all of Europe and all of those countries in Central and Western Europe whose destination is the Adriatic Sea over the summer, I'm afraid I won't say salvation, but in any case the importance of obtaining continental tourism. Continental tourism has something to offer only to create brands of every city, every municipality, county starting with hunting to say that religious tourism, cultural tourism, etc. I'm talking about Baroque Varazdin, I'm talking about the Baroque Slavonski Brod, I'm talking about Slavonski Brod as a fairy tale town or the fairy tale town of Ivana Brlic Mažuranić. There is something to offer continental tourism each of our cities. Here is the County of the Ship-Posavina sanctuary of Gossina in Kobash, in the municipality of Orjavac. We have hunting grounds for the Nigalovs. We have a hunting ground for Radinje, etc. Now I ask you if this added value for which we pay the residence tax all those who have holiday homes or cottages and if they are deployed or as they say is sorted into zones according to all those criteria then I wonder why large in Požega-Slavon County near Papuk National Park, near the Jankovec Fortress the old is not there either, in that first street which to the park of the national being the first category, etc. and the residence tax or fee that we pay in our cottages every one who has it or for a guest, a friend who comes to you for a day or two which is completely incomprehensible if you clearly find it, if the inspection comes is completely discriminatory. And because if a friend comes to me hunting in Slavonia, I take him into my house that I have in Siæ, in Radinj, then that friend of mine from Dalmatia who came hunting doesn't pay a stay tax or anyone asks him, nor does he have an inspection to oversee it. If it comes to me picking grapes and it's three days, no one asks in Slavonia or fears that a tourist inspection will come along, so tell me what this Shime is doing from Vira here in Slavonia. Next, a friend from Razanac comes to me to Vir for a barbecue, spends the night a little drunk to spend the night and not travel so little under the influence of alcohol, sleeps. The inspection comes and punishes him and me and him. And indeed, I have cited such an objective example that is everyday, which happens and can happen, and indeed this residence tax is as the colleague said and explained why and in what paragraphs of Article 12 and those other items are indeed discriminatory. If people who have their cottages are paying their taxes in order for these cottages, if they pay communal fees for a year and are there for 15 or 20 days, if they pay all other fees, if they make and profit and pay VAT clearly in the price, then it is very strange and totally unacceptable to pay in their homes, in their apartments, in their home, in their home and tourist tax. That's not what I'm gonna be, to raise my hand for a bill like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22177	Thank you. Final review, Minister of Tourism Damir Bajs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22178	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. So I'm glad this set of laws caused such an occupation. What I would point out is that several club representatives said they would explicitly support the law, some said they were primarily for it, but they have certain objections, some of which, of course, are against it. It is perfectly legitimate and I would say understandable that in the Parliament it is this way to be set up according to these very important laws since after 15 years we change I would say one system, a system of tourist communities. These 330 are put into new frameworks, new frameworks that must give competitiveness to Croatian tourism. I would point out that those dilemmas that are indicated aren't really dilemmas. Namely, about a few things I would say focused on the debate. The question is whether mayors, mayors, mayors should or should not be presidents of tourist communities. I will say if, therefore, we follow the system of laws on local self-government, if we follow the will of citizens who have given them confidence to manage, not a destination, but the totality of that city, the municipalities or the county as an executive authority, since there is a council at the level of local self-government, or the county assembly, then it is clear that if we want the tourist communities to manage destinations, we must put them in that position. It is clear, and this should be particularly highlighted, so that if we are talking about their obligations that the statutes of the tourist community will be resolved technical matters because there is no need to overstretched the law when we would therefore determine those events at the meetings of the tourist council or the tourist assembly, then we would actually burden the law, instead of giving the possibility that, of course, the meetings of water and their deputies who can be completely legitimately placed in the constitutional provisions. There was, of course, a question of a united promotion. We think it is a good and quality thing that will solve the issue precisely regarding the coming years, and the years are what they will give, I would say on the competitiveness test of Croatian tourism. Also, what is important here is to point out that more or less everyone agreed that after 15 years it is necessary to make changes within this system and that changes generally in the vast majority go exactly that way and support themselves in terms of the fact that Croatian tourism is taking place, of course, as some said and primarily in the Adriatic Sea, but in this law there are a number of provisions that highlight the need for development at the level of parts of Croatia in the touristic sense and the corresponding provisions that definitely support such thinking are therefore provisions which define both the residence tax and therefore membership fees through the fact that they do not go, if it goes below 200 thousand kuna, so that money is more in the main office of the Croatian tourist community, than it goes towards the local environments that we are thus particularly strengthening, and we also have the possibility of developing tourist infrastructure on the tourist under the underdeveloped parts of Croatia. What I would say, therefore, is that those three settings that are related to the fact that we have to give tourist communities the opportunity to develop a destination, we have to connect them with the local self-government that you have been associated with so far because we have cases and today because it is legal for mayors, mayors and mayors to be presidents of tourist communities, they are members of the headship and they can be today, so when we talk about it, then we are also talking about the situation that exists now, which will be related in a different way. And on the other hand, we have to give them the elements that actually have the ability to manage the destination through a merger of projects of local self-government with a combination of the turns of the tourist community. I would also point out, and it's several times indicated we wanted to rule out competition. It is clear that the public service, however, and what in any case the Croatian Tourist Board is, must not and cannot compete with the private sector and we have made it clear in a number of legal solutions, the administrative and public sector is not considered to be competition for private entrepreneurs. The only exception was that he was named here by the tourist agencies because he had such a request from the field and only in case there is no suitable tourist agency on the ground. Also, professionalisation of further and further increased expertise is something we will continue to seek. This law stipulates it, and as for the common, I would say sectoral cooperation between the public and private sectors, I don't think it should even be overexplained in view of the fact that at this point it is actually an necessity that exists before us. As for the other circumstances relating to fees and travel fees, i.e. the annual fee, I will say that they are clearly in line with the present moment, they should facilitate payment, and also be fair, so in terms of distribution. I would point out that by solving issues through vignettes, especially in a sector that is related to nautical tourism, we allow for a simple fee as far as boaters are concerned, and de facto we allow this payment to go in favour of what may not have been charged so far, which is, in this case, the total of tourism. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22179	Thank you. I am concluding the debate on these three agenda points that have been discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22180	Final proposal of the Law on residence tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 200. The debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the government submitted amendments. In accordance with Article 166. The Rules of Procedure on amendments submitted must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present. Who's agreeing to conduct an amendment debate, please raise your hand? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? The decision is to discuss the amendments has been accepted 81 for and 50 against. I would like to ask the applicant's representative to show himself on the amendments to the Government's First Amendment to Article 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22181	In the article, the word "freedom from payment" is replaced by "payment". The explanation shall be kept in line with the proposal of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22182	Thank you. I'm opening a debate on the government's amendment. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting Amendment One, Government. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? The result? This amendment of the Government was adopted by 74 for, 8 against, 39 abstentions and Amendment 2 to Article 34.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22183	In Article 4, paragraph 2 reads: "by way of entry into force of this law, the provisions of Article 38(5) shall cease to apply. The law on catering activities in the section which reads: "with regard to the fact that when providing accommodation services, the amount of the residence tax must be clearly highlighted in the account". Namely, it is in line with the amendment of the Committee on Tourism to Article 17 as well as with the Law on Hosting Activity. In order not to punish persons who provide accommodation services in the peasant household under that law for not stating the amount of the residence tax in the account.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22184	Thank you. I'm opening a debate on the second amendment to the government. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. This 2nd amendment of the government was adopted by 80 votes to 43 against and 7 abstentions. Please now show the other amendments you've got on the benches. First Tourism Committee, 1st Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22185	The government accepts the 1st amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22186	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 2nd Representative Maria Habeka.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22187	The government doesn't accept the amendment. According to the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, the residence fee is a fee for the use of the general tourist services and conveniences provided to visitors in a tourist resort, which in its scope and quality cross the frames of the population. In order to raise the quality of tourist and other complementary services, tourist resorts must build better municipal infrastructure and invest in all kinds of development of the site, requiring increased funds. Prescribing the obligation to pay the residence tax to settle the increased cash expenditures of the tourist resort. Therefore, according to the Constitutional Court, it is entirely justified if it refers to tourists, because they enjoy the benefits of such a place while staying in those places.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22188	Thank you. Mr. Mario Habek.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22189	Since house owners and committee apartments pay all other taxes such as utility fees and taxes, I don't think they should pay a residence tax. I'm saddening the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22190	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 3rd Amendment of MP Ljubice Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22191	Accepts the government amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22192	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 4. The Tourism Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22193	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22194	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 5th Representative Maria Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22195	The government doesn't accept the amendment. If the owner of the house is a resident of a tourist municipality or city, then there is no obligation to pay the tourist tax, but the owner who is not a resident of a tourist municipality or city uses this holiday house is worth everything previously stated in connection with the position expressed in the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22196	Mrs. Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22197	Mr. Secretary of State, if a person inherits an old family house, then if he stays in that house, he doesn't pay his residence tax. And now imagine the situation. You have two brothers, born in the same house in some small place on the island, for example. One inherited an old family house in it for the summer and did not pay a tourist tax. Another who bought and built a house in that small place where people go, when they come to their hometown, pays a residence tax. So the idea of my amendment is that people who are born, who work holiday homes, in places where they were born, are freed from paying their residence tax when they fly to their hometowns, as is the case for people who fly to their inherited family homes. The motivation of these people to fly in their places, places of birth, is not primarily touristic, but has other needs of native, family, family and others, and I think it must be borne in mind that in fact the largest number of tourist sites on the Adriatic coast are on islands, many of these settlements on islands are kind of depopularized, or people from them are leaving, and this would be a good measure to in some way stimulate people to return to the places where they were born. I know it's extremely unfair for us to charge people a stay tax if they fly where they were born. I'd like to, uh, discuss this subject, I've been writing amendments since 2002, and I'd like for once to be reasonable and in some way justness in the tourism ministry to accept something like that. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22198	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 6th Representative Maria Habek?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22199	The government doesn't accept the amendment. It is worth everything previously stated in relation to the position of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22200	Since it is not accepted, the amendment to Article 3 of this Article 4 is closely related to this article so that there is no point in voting on this amendment, so I am withdrawing it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22201	This amendment has been withdrawn. Seven. The Tourism Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22202	The government accepts the amendment with language change. Thus, the wording of the amendments in Article 7 is added to the word "nauticals" and the word "except" in the provision of Article 4(1) and (2) of this Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22203	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22204	It was accepted in the text as Mr. Secretary of State said. 8. The Tourism Committee, too?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22205	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22206	This is an integral part of Proposal 9 of the Tourism Committee as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22207	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22208	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 10 Tourism Committees.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22209	The government accepts the amendment in part by saying: "Article 11 at the end of this point deletes the points and adds the words "these tourist communities of places, municipalities or cities". The concept of tourist resort is defined in the Law on Memberships in Tourist Communities. According to the Law on Areas of Countys, Cities and Towns in the Republic of Croatia, the settlement is part of a municipality or city for which a tourist community can be established under the Law on Tourist Communities and the promotion of Croatian Tourism. The tourist resort in this sense is not a concept that knows any of the laws governing the tourist community system.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22210	Mr. Representative... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22211	I accept your explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22212	Mr. Secretary of State's argument has been accepted. 11 The Tourism Committee also.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22213	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22214	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 12 Tourism Committees.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22215	The amendment to paragraph 3 of this Article shall be accepted and the new paragraph 6 shall read as follows: "The Minister shall provide for the method of payment of the residence tax referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article.". This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The issue of payments to these persons requires for the sake of easier uniform treatment of the prescription of not only the time limits for the payment of the flat-rate stay tax. For the other payers of the residence tax, the deadlines and method of payment or payment of the residence tax are prescribed by this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22216	Thank you. Sir... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22217	Reason accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22218	And this amendment was accepted in the text as said by the Secretary of State. 13 of the Tourism Committee, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22219	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22220	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 14 of the Tourism Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22221	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22222	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 15 Tourism Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22223	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22224	It becomes an integral part of the bill. 16 of the Tourism Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22225	The amendment is accepted with the addition that the text of the amendment reads: "Article 24(1): "1000" is replaced by the number "2000", after the word "all nights achieved" the words "in that week" and replace the words "in that period". In paragraph 3, "500" is replaced by "1000". The text shall be corrected and clarified and harmonised with the State Inspectorate Act so that the amendments proposed by the Committee on Tourism in accordance with Articles 25, 27 and 29 relate to an increase in penalties.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22226	Mr. Brkaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22227	I accept explanation and extension.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22228	... in the text as explained by Mr. Secretary of State. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 17 Tourism Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22229	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22230	It becomes an integral part of the bill. 18 Tourism Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22231	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22232	. It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 19 Tourism Committee
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22233	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22234	It also becomes an integral part of the bill. 20 Tourism Committees.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22235	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22236	It becomes an integral part of the bill. 21 of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22237	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22238	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 22 Tourism Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22239	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22240	It becomes an integral part of the bill. 23 Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22241	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22242	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 24 Tourism Committees.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22243	The amendment is adopted with an amendment so that the text of the amendment reads: "which enter into force from 1 January 2010. Namely, it is in line with the objection of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22244	Mr. Brkaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22245	I accept your explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22246	It was accepted in the text as explained by the State Secretary. 25 Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22247	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22248	It becomes an integral part of the bill. Thank you. I am voting on the final proposal of the House Tax Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The residence tax law was adopted by most of the votes with 83 votes in favour, no abstentions and 40 against, together with the amendments accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22249	We go to the next point - Final proposal of the law on golf courses, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 211 The Proposer is Government. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Spatial Planning and Construction, Law, Tourism, Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Tourism Committee. Minister of Tourism Damir Bajs will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22250	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Once again, respect for the parliamentary representative and parliamentary representatives. In front of you is the proposal for a law on golf courses with the Final Bill. I must say that when the Ministry of Tourism was assigned to build a set of laws, then I am in this contribution to work for the term of office. Three are connected to tourist communities, one is tied to golf courses. What we wanted and what I wanted as Minister of Tourism was actually our task to do in the shortest period of time. Questions arise as to why golf is important for Croatian tourism and why the draft law is actually made in the tourism sector. So it is clear that as far as we are concerned in the Ministry of Tourism, we consider golfing content as part of the offer of Croatian tourism. I will stress this moment that we want, therefore, one more quality content, that the new quality of Croatian tourism, not only through the number of hotels, through raising quality, through new marinas, but also through the facilities that we lack, must be present in the tourist offer of the Republic of Croatia. For me personally, this law has the task of actually being a twin. It is one thing to remove the dilemma, a dilemma that no Croatian tourist who comes to Croatia should have. The dilemma is simple, at the moment when it comes to Croatia, it comes to a country that promotes high quality in tourist offer, but we are also a country that currently has virtually no golf course according to golf standards and it is clear that the dilemma that a tourist has is whether to come to Croatia for a tourist tour, vacation or for some other reason to choose Croatia's destination, but at the time of stay in Croatia does not play golf, or what is something we do not want to change the destination, so it is our potential tourist or somewhere where he can actually stay, but he can play golf. It is a dilemma that no tourist in Croatia should have. Of course, we have to watch where the competition is. I'll say that according to the data we have right now, our competition has about six golf courses per million arrivals of tourists. We have 11 million tourists, if we were in the standard we should have something over 60 golf courses, we're actually in a situation now that we don't have any. We even have a situation for people to come on vacation in Croatia, say in Dubrovnik, to bring their golf clubs and come to Dubrovnik for reception and simply ask where the golf course is. What are they asking? Because they mean that there is a golf course in Croatia. Of course we have to say or the receptionist at that hotel's reception that if they want to play golf, they have to go to another country. So right now, we've got 60 golf courses plotted in spatial plans. In the last 15 years, therefore, that possibility has existed, it has been indicated and I say in spatial plans on the county level. However, the situation is such that in Croatia, I would say the possibility, no one has taken advantage of it. I'm going to say that at this point of course we believe that obviously this investment cycle of investment in golf should be strengthened and this content created in as short a time as possible. I will not compare Croatia only with destinations that are traditionally strong, so one Italy or one Spanish, but also those countries that were with us in a certain environment, such as one Czech Republic, one Slovakia that is not competitive in the right sense of that word, but now have 20 and more golf courses, and that they clearly attract a special and quality population that is absolutely of paramount importance to us in tourism. The law itself is therefore extremely short, it has 16 articles and I will say that this law actually determines what is most important that the law can be asked at all as such, and that is the question whether golf is of interest to the Republic of Croatia or not. The law clearly states that the law is of interest, that golf is of interest to the Republic of Croatia and based on it are actually created a series of legal provisions that should be made for those investors who are already deep in the practical construction phase for which there are a number of preconditions, to enable them to use opportunities to base the fact that it is of interest to the Republic of Croatia, the law could shape this plot and actually go towards me to tell the possibility of building a golf course. The problem that always exists is the problem of large areas needed for golf courses and therefore, of course, in these legislative frameworks, it is envisaged that in some situations we simply allow but only in exceptional situations that actually whoever is the investor, who has the prerequisites, can therefore form a building plot. I'm going to say what we're changing here in no way, so we don't just have to indicate what we're going to change, but what remains unquestionable. This law does not change environmental standards. So, right now, Croatia and this law are predominant that nature protection will be at the highest level. Only the golf course is not in contradiction with nature protection. I will say that one Switzerland, one Austria, one Sweden have a series of golf courses that we can't say for sure now, those countries are countries with low standards, but the law does not bypass any procedures that are related to that segment. The second thing, we continue to leave the local, and in particular the regional self-government the possibility that is most important, and that is the possibility that through spatial plans determine what is most important, how much golf courses should have, whether they are suitable for me to say construction and determine how much the ratios are actually related to the buildings on the golf course and only the golf course. We do not impose here but limit the possibility of therefore building on golf courses so that the provisions here that have been established determine which are the maximum, and these maximums continue to determine therefore the units or regional self-government. We are also not going to this law to any apartmentisation, the reason simple, golf courses are certainly neither the end of the sea nor are they located in certain areas of such nature to make apartments there. It is clear that they are located in areas that are suitable for that, which are usually in the background and which actually enable this area to be ecologically protected, and I would also say in what we want, a high economic value. And at the end of the golf courses of course serve us, I will especially emphasize that, for attracting those tourists who are high paying powers and later I would say that golf is not related to the main season. So golfers and golf courses are used most just when Croatia needs them most, and this is in the pre-season and season and this is a special value and convenience which is therefore related to this content. With this law, in fact, Croatia, too, so I would say the Ministry of Tourism says we want investors, but we don't want investors in everything. We don't want investors in apartments, we don't want investors I'd say in what we think Croatian tourism is not necessary but we actually want investors in the high quality content that Croatia lacks, and one of these contents is golf courses. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22251	Thank you. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction? For legislation? Tourism? Regional development? Foresting and a water economy? I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go. ... And yes, I'm sorry. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22252	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. At its 10th session, held on 2 December 2008 and on 4 December 2008, the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a law on golf courses, with the final proposal for a law submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by act of 27 November 2008, with a proposal to comply with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall adopt the proposed law by an urgent procedure. The Committee on Tourism discussed the final draft law on the basis of Article 69(5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a home working body, especially in the part relating to tourism programmes, of particular importance for the economic development of the Republic of Croatia. The opening statement on the reasons why this law is proposed was submitted by Mr Damir Bajs, Minister of Tourism, and pointed out the need to adopt a legal framework that would allow for faster and faster construction of a golf course. This would reduce Croatia's lagging behind in developing this form of tourist offer compared to other competing countries Mediterranean. The Committee on Tourism in preparation for the final draft of the law did not have a strategy... Croatian tourism until 2015, which should define the location and strategic importance of golf-based tourism, as well as the golf development programme as the basis of the Croatian Government's development strategy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the course of the debate, some committee members expressed disdain over the fact that the proposed law is adopted in an emergency procedure, especially as the provisions of the proposed law allow for major interventions in a highly valuable liberal space, including forests and forest land. The provisions of the proposed law also prescribe the application of the real estate award procedure, for the construction of a golf course, and even more re-action of the law. On the basis of the debate, the Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament, by majority vote 5 for and 3 against, to pass the Law on golf courses with four amendments. As the Committee on Tourism did not accept the amendment to Article 15. The final draft law, which provides that certain provisions of the proposed law have a return effect, in this case the mandatory application of the provisions of Article 154. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22253	Thank you. SDP club, Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22254	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Secretary with his associates. The SDP representative club will not support the Golf Courses Act in this form, because we believe this law is in this form, that this law is adopted in this form as an excuse for land speculation. In the bill, it was written as a key reason that the sport as an additional offer is part of the strategic orientation of Croatian tourism, played by 60 million golfers in the world, and 7 million golfers in Europe. I would take this opportunity, since the Minister of Tourism is here, to remind him that there are 83 million Germans in Germany alone, and that we have lost slowly in Germany and German tourists over the last 3 years. That we have 60 million Italians in Italy, and we lose them year after year. That's why I'd like to see... Tourism ministries in the area to return these broadcasting markets that are most important to us because of the arrival of tourists in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So much for the crucial number of 60 million golfers or 7 million of those who play in Europe. What do we need for golf? To know what this is about, we need 18 holes on a golf course, an average size of 60 to 80 hectares where one to two hectares is needed for accommodation, or additional capacity. One or two acres. That's what I'm deliberately saying because of what this law has decreed that 25% of the golf course can be built. One or two acres does not amount to a tenth of that. We believe that this law goes hand in hand let's say so to construction entrepreneurs who will be able to build apartments, buildings and then sell them on the market. I would not like to pull the parallels, but we have an example from Zagreb a few years ago, where a large amount of apartment houses are built on a golf course, which are registered as accompanying facilities, as facilities for athletes who come to the golf course. And everything would be fine if those houses hadn't been sold. They were sold, and that's when the law was broken. This law allows such a situation to be legalised at the golf course near Zagreb. It will be possible to build such facilities, sell them to private persons who will then have the possibility of accommodation next to golf courses. I'm not pulling the parallels. The other day I read in the media that it's a 88-hectare golf course, and the minimum size that covers this law is 85 hectares. I don't know if it's an accident or not, maybe the minister could answer me better. What we feel is also not good. Golf as a support to Croatian tourism, and the law is not communicated with those working in tourism, is not incommunicated with the Croatian Association of Hotelers who should benefit the most from such playgrounds. If we make a few playgrounds around Istria, five, six playgrounds, all hotelers in Istria could benefit from it, because golfers would come and stay in hotels. But that law is not communicated with people who deal with tourism. We also don't think that it's properly done in terms of how much land can be owned, 20%. There is a possibility and of course who determines then the price of this land? Is that a market price? Is that price at that point worth agricultural land or perhaps even lower? And tomorrow when it turns into additional content where you can build hotels and apartments can be much more valuable. So that way, we will rule them out from their land and possibly increase their country's value multiple times without them benefiting from it. The same thing is done with land from local units, or state, where even 30% of the land must be sold to the investor if it already has enough land to build a golf course. Finally, of course we are not against golf as something that is necessary in the world and of course we are not against it that someone because of a small plot cannot build a golf course as it happened to one of our famous former football players, Ladić, who has been trying to finish this playground in Istria for several years, but we are against this way allowing the conversion of one land, meaning 25% of the land that can be converted from, say, agricultural or other purposes to construction. So if so, here's the amendment to the SDP's Club of Representatives. If the law is changed in such a way that a long line is removed from Article 2 of the Law, this additional part that describes what else is related to golf, i.e. golfing buildings, we will support this law because we believe that it will not be able to use additional content and commercialise them in the way we have now tried to explain it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22255	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22256	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, just for the sake of accuracy. It is a false assumption that market conditions such as Germany or Italy themselves come to us as fewer guests. The number of guests from Germany and Italy is growing year after year. So I don't know where you get that number from. That's completely incorrect. In the rest of the seasons that are behind us every year are getting better and better, and it is quite certain that this information does not stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22257	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22258	The Rules of Procedure were injured because Mr. Matušić did not correct the incorrect allegations. I have here data in front of me published on the website of the Ministry of Tourism which says that in 2006, the seventh and eighth constantly declines the number of guests from Germany and Italy as well. A million and 200 thousand in 2006, up to a million 134 thousand this year. So, Mr. Matušić, please inform yourself on the Ministry's pages, and then correct, or we wouldn't be able to fix this, but you might be able to fix something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22259	Comrade Maras, this is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You made one claim about the decline of tourists.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22260	Vice President, this is a concrete piece of information. The minister can confirm.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22261	Well, come on, don't joke. ... You made one claim, the MP denied it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And that's the correction of an incorrect quote, and whether it's accurate or incorrect. Is your claim correct or incorrect But you can't do it that way. [[I've got an exact vice president.]] Don't joke. The school alphabet of the Rules of Procedure. IDS representative club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22262	Honorable Vice President, Mr. Minister, distinguished gentlemen of the Parliament. Why doesn't Croatia have any golf courses? De facto I didn't have any golf courses. We have something called golf, and it's not really golf in Krasic, Brijuni and Blato. We, among other things. Yeah, but it's not golf. Among other things, we don't have golf today and because of the ministry's position. I recently read, perhaps there is Mr. Simicic here who said that golf is contrary to the interests of our tourist employees. It's a done quote. It's just incomprehensible. Another question arises, why our large tourist houses, which have a monopoly in some tourist environments like this. Arena tourist, Jadran tourist, Anita, Riviera, Blue Lagoon, etc. To this day, they haven't built a single golf course. I think it's a central question, not because it would hurt them, but because golf would cost a minimum of 10 to 20 million euros, if clearly one of those houses or owners buys land. What could be the solution or what could be the solution? To give the country in a concession to these hotel houses and to have these existing hotelers build some terrain. But those normals on other people's grounds because of the undefined status of tourist land could not build, but they had no interest in building, because in such a situation, the price of the terrain would be between 5 and 10 million euros. So what I'd stand for would be that the state would give these hotelers land if they could build. We have a situation, for example. That one "Adriatic-Tourist", that one "Blue Lagoon" that one "Riviera", not to mention their bosses Pliny, Count Elsa, etc. For decades they have been using not only Istria, but the same situation throughout the Adriatic, hundreds of acres of so on. tourism land and pay no one anything. The poor woman in this country is clearly paying for everything, and those who seem to have so much in debt to all the authorities so far, the state is giving free use of hundreds of hectares of so-called. tourist land. Imagine that one of you, me, God forbid we manage in one year... "Lantern", so we can use that land, those camps without a kuna fee. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 10,000 tourists are there daily, we multiply it by 20, 30 euros per day, so at the end of the season you have a clean 3, 4, 5 million euros. Why hasn't the state said until today, here gentlemen for free you can't use this tourist land, but let's agree we'll stand as a state behind you, you build in two or three years somewhere a golf course on land that the state will give them, which is anyway in '91, '92. Nationalized by municipalities and cities and the next day I give you the same land in a concession that you can normally improve your tourist offer. It is clear that in that case you will pay me, you should also tell them to use golf course and tourist land, because there is nothing for anything. You see, gentlemen, that's how Slovenians built golf golf in Slovenia, and that's why golf in Slovenia didn't turn up any bigger I don't know, tourist or apartment facilities. Now, let's say that's what Caine's model would be. Now let's see how things are in Croatia? The only golf course that ends at this point is in Savudrija means in the Kempnski complex. I think that whole complex should be seen. Perhaps the Parliament should move once to Umag, a long way to go I don't know how to go to Pula to see how the Oilman works and maybe get some knowledge of how something can be done in this country. On the other hand, the question arises, how is it that in one UK we have 600, 700 golf courses, so many Germany. Italy must have 400, 500, Croatia de facto has none. How can something work there in Croatia absolutely nothing can work? How many gentlemen we ask ourselves and this question of new hotels from 50 rooms to more, say, in Croatia built from 91st to today. I doubt there are thousands of miles across our coast from Umag is down to the Montenegrin border plus a thousand islands, not built more than ten. In Istria, only three new hotels "Keminski", "Nautica", "Istra" in Istria were built all in the area of the city of Umag, where hotels were renovated but no new ones were built. How many industrial buildings in Croatia have been built? Even less. We simply won't do anything, but today we also know very well that our external debt is 37 billion euros, we know how much money or billions of euros should be paid back next year, we know without how many jobs we'll be around, the next we know how much GDP will be, and we know that we're in big trouble. What's on the other hand and Croatian real estate when we talk about them like that? The sale is that we all know the de facto stopped in Istria, both in Zagreb, and in Dalmatia, and in Slavonia. By the 5th, 6th month, those who hoped to be able to live today de facto vegetation. I'm talking about Croatia. There's nothing different in Italy, Austria, Germany. The price of houses in this country or apartments fell by good 20, 30 and 40%. Today, many in Istria sell their properties just so they can pay off interest banks so they don't pay heavy interest. So at this point, whoever thinks golf is a lucrative job is simply wrong. In addition to this "Kempinski" which is not yet finished in Istria, there are others on the pier but in the realization of Jupiter's fund from Great Britain. It is the golf in Motovun investment of 79-80m euros, it is the "Marcotia" Buje 70-80m euros, it is the "Dala" near Novigrad or Buja, Umag 70-80m euros, and what Mr. Maras was talking about in Ližnjan is bringing Israelis to Ližnjan, rather said one world chain. So these are the four terrains that can be realistically achieved over the next two or three years. The value of these four sites is about 300m euros. The question arises whether Croatia needs these 300m euros from which the state would currently collect 60m euros through VAT only, which it will not invest or return to Istria again, but will invest them in other parts because Istria is represented by only 77m kuna in 2009 budget. It is also clear that no one will invest 10, or 20m euros, and that is the price of the naked golf course and that it has been waiting 200, 300 or 500 years for money to return. Money back, and we need to know it doesn't come true by playing, it doesn't come true with one drink in a golf course because anyway, all those golfers go to nearby restaurants. Money back, there's no secret. That's clear. It's done through or through real estate. And that's where I absolutely agree. There should be a lot of caution. Why? Be careful, I'll say the same. This law is not the happiest solution, and it would be good if you could go to another reading. The golf law, for example, intends to undermine that density under that 25% figure. I personally think it's too much. It's just an expropriation, that's all. Expropriation, another proposed way that owners cannot influence my actions is also unacceptable. I know that many owners would do it and do blackmail to get as much price as possible, then raise their price in the sky but it's also legitimate. Thirdly, the obligation of local self-government to sell land without a public tender and it's just for golf, and it's unacceptable but in practice someone is buying something in a public tender and then blocking the investment from this other de facto. And fourthly, if someone buys a golf house, then the question is whether it's possible to force the owner to rent it for golf facilities. It is also clearly very difficult and very tense although it is a logic that applies elsewhere and it is in the interest of someone who buys that apartment or house with golf to de facto pay out the property he acquires. This proposal should also be said in the proposal of the lawyer's office Veljović-Modrušan-Peric-Jelenkovic. In a way he favors investors, it should be acknowledged. It's only in favor I'll tell the investor. Why? Because they represent this Jupiter Fund, but in the interest of something and it's starting to happen in this country. So perhaps it would be best if all this golfing stuff were left to the local self-government as well as to the public private partnership, but by law we define that construction on that golf course must not exceed 15% of that field. That's actually the point. Well, then, whoever likes to have some. Built means must be reduced to the least possible measure. It's also clear to me that after Kempinski's on Savudrija and the rest of them will speed up golf activities, I understand that. I'm sure Golf "Kempinski" will accept all of Umag or the vast majority. On the other hand, we have that log that clears it out to him two. Why is Jupiter currently interested in three golf courses in Istria? Because one golfer like no golfer because golfers move de facto from one field to the other. It is also clear to all that the golf course in some way extends the season, enlarges the season, that the season in Istria lasts for about four, five months, in Dalmatia I doubt it lasts for two months. At golf locations of the season in Croatia it may take nine or ten months but it will certainly benefit some surroundings. Golf and I claim today is not elitism. I say it's better to have golf today than some camp, especially if that camp makes no use of the state. The question arises who will tomorrow buy our wines, our oils that are more expensive today in Istria or Croatia than they are in Italy, Spain, France or anywhere else. We also have to understand, no one will come with 10, 20, 30 million in Croatia and that money in some way doesn't fertilize the next day or make money on that investment. If he does not return the investment understandably he will not come, but let no one allow him to take that money out of the country and therefore this construction from these 25% must be reduced to about 15%. What I was talking about this morning when we talk about this agricultural land the price of agricultural properties in Istria is higher than in Luxembourg. On the other hand, if someone invests in something 10, 20, 30 million euros in what a naked field costs, then the state in that field will also collect 22% VAT. Someone's gonna get a job and not list any other effects. We're just following, I don't know, what's going on in this country just against everything we are. We refuse everything. We, I say, in the last 7, 8 years have driven 4.5 billion euros of investment into the country. We've lost 50 grand of jobs. The state has lost one billion euros. And what do we do? I'll do it again. Real estate de facto has stopped in this country. There's a panic in the real estate market. The value goes down to apartments, houses. In 2009, the real estate will still be lost at the price. What happens to the shares that they are today below the value of 2005 will soon happen with our real estate, with today or next year when we are out of work and from Istria onward our people will no longer be able to go to work in Italy because there is a crisis there, and there is also no work there. All in all for the end I'll say the same. In these parts I'm talking about. The law is unacceptable. It is necessary to reduce the size of construction and it would be good for the law to go into second reading, but let us also be reasonable and let us not drive every investor away. And let's just draw one more line to say, one parallel with tennis. 40 years ago in this country, everyone was against tennis. From my father onward. In Rovinj and Umag and so on. Today we see that one Umag cannot build a tourist offer either Rovinj or Poreč without tennis. 40 years ago, my father's parents were all against the pool next to the hotel. "Go take a bath there, don't build me a pool." And today we see that there is no tourism without it, and in 10 years, we will all realize that there will be no tourism in Croatia without golf, which, I fear, in a year, can come to the branches of Croatian shipbuilding from 2008.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22263	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by Mrs. Tanja Vrbat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22264	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My friend Cain, you've broken everything here, and you haven't just talked about the bill. But that's what we've learned. Since I don't have a chance to replicate it, then I'll only make one correction to the quote, which is, you've claimed that the government is not familiar with the Kempinsky project and golf courses in the city of Umag. I'm telling you she's very familiar because she's on the government's recommendation... The budget, that it should be seen and not known, on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the city of Umag has received less than 30 million kuna on the basis of a municipal contribution, because, on the basis of the government's recommendation, it was necessary to charge only one million kuna of municipal contribution for more than 90 hectares. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22265	Thank you. HNS Club, Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22266	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party Club will support this bill, but provided that our conclusion is adopted, which is that this final proposal, that this proposal of the Law on Golf Courses, be implemented for this proposal of the Law on Golf Courses. We have witnessed that we have received a whole series of amendments to this bill, the fact that the Committee, the National Tourism Committee, has spoken of the need to read, the need to implement a statement on this law and in the third reading, and in that sense the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party has referred to the procedure and this conclusion and the adoption of this conclusion. We will also support this proposal for a third reading law if our conclusion is adopted. Generally the Croatian People's Party has a feeling for sport, its attitude towards tourism proves a whole series of remarks, very concrete projects and a very concrete relationship, and when it comes to golf course we definitely believe that it is the first that it is not, that it is not without reason that in 10 years we have not built any golf course. Number 2. A quite safe golf course as a potential in the overall stacking of tourist products definitely has its own space and needs support. And in any case, the government's decision, which is that, that golf courses are of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia, including the detachment of forests and forest land from the forest-economic base for the construction of a quality Mediterranean and European golf destinations, is definitely something we agree with, but in no way taught by the experience and that immediate proximity of Blat when that area was declared by the Government's decision of national interest, and that national interest then got its development and the sequence that it received, and the fact that in that project, that in the supervisory function or supervisory service of our system, above all, did not show their responsibility, showed their seriousness. And based on this proposal, we simply don't see any guarantees that in this project of building golf courses we have the security not to come or not to be abused. Namely everywhere in the world and it is known and clear, it is clear that the very closely connected construction or construction of golf courses projects with real estate operations is very often non-transparent. The tourism ministry is asking how many golf courses we need. We heard 60 golf courses were included in the spatial plans. Does our space need 60 golf courses? That's question number one. Question number two, how much do we really need a golf course, because we don't have a tourism development strategy yet, we haven't got it yet. Last year, in fact this year's fourth month, it was announced that a depth analysis of tourism would be developed. The budget provides for 700000 kuna, in the 2008 budget. For making, for the cost of making and analysis, and I believe which analysis would also verify all these successful and good results in tourism that we had the opportunity to hear about in previous points, and very likely in this point. The fact that there is no such item in the 2009 budget. In other words, we expect these days and that depth analysis. The only thing that builds a golf course and declares national interest is a programme of golf development by a government decision 10 years ago. I therefore believe that we in the Croatian People's Club believe that the very dimension of national interest in the construction of the golf course could only be discussed after the adoption of the tourism development strategy and only after the presentation, the deep analysis of the situation in tourism, and for which I repeat the projected funds in the budget and the Ministry of Tourism take over the obligations of making that analysis. In particular about the law, and on this we have, I have had the opportunity to say something about it, and in the debate on the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, which we have discussed as an interested committee because we believe that this project also has space, has the possibility, has importance for regional development and definitely has our support in this sense. The area of the golf course. The law provides for 85 ha minimum. In the amendments we saw on the benches, it's now 70 ha. I believe that all of this will be made known by the promoter. But according to this proposal, the minimum area of 85 ha of many units of local self-government and regional self-government would be forced to change their spatial plans, because in their current spatial plans, the golf course space is less than 85 ha. There are several investors who have already prepared the entire study. It also has an environmental impact study, it also has a closed financial structure. However, their surface, the area of their golf course is less than 85 ha. So I believe that by fixing the minimum surface area that the proposer of this law will not create a non-market match, it will not create a situation for individual investors who have already invested funds in such projects to remain short sleeves. About the area of construction, the density of the construction he spoke of, and the colleague Cain, is the fact that this law provides that the density of the construction of all accompanying facilities, club house, parking lot, service buildings, catering, tourist buildings intended for accommodation should be up to 25% of the total floor area on which the construction of the golf course is planned. While, at the same time, Article 52 of the applicable Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, it is said that the total floor area, gross surface area of closed, covered buildings can be up to 10% of the area of sport and content only if the golf course is not treated as a sports field. However, there is clearly one provision in the coalition. The fact is that there is a clearly justified need for extradition up to 20% when it comes to a natural person, private property, when we talk about ownership of the state of Croatia, then it is up to 30% public tendering. It is sold at a market price for which it is not defined which is or is not linked to an index but is obviously a free appraisal which will be settled by a government regulation, which can again be like this and be conducted without a public tender. There's another component at the golf course we need to talk about, we need to talk about it. She's ecological. Namely, for an average playground, the 18-hole golf course is estimated to require between 1600 and 2000 cc's of water per day for watering. Surely in the continental part of Croatia something less, surely in those more attractive areas near the sea, far more attractive spaces need something more. But in any case, when it's recalculated, when it's converted, it makes a comparison that approximately that amount spends in 24 hours a town of 8,000 people, then it gets a whole new dimension. The fact that it is in Istria, the Istrian county plans envision 22 golf courses. If we multiply it by 2,000 cubic meters it's 44,000 cubic meters a day or when we turn it into population again it's a town of 172000 inhabitants. Furthermore, the use of pesticides is necessary to preserve and maintain lawns on golf courses, and even some countries have legally restricted, by law, the extent to which these pesticides can be used to maintain the golf course. The assessment is again repeated by the professions that one playground takes between 750 and a ton of pesticides, from 750 kilos to a ton. If we take Istria 22 for example, let this minimum amount be 750 kilograms, that is 16.5 tonnes times ten years, in other words the concentration of 165 tonnes in one relatively small space. I mean, I'm not saying that because we're against golf courses, but we're saying that golf courses as a national interest are looked at by all elements, by all segments, and that then we in the Assembly could make a quality decision. And not to mention, we at the Croatian People's Party club support every action, every activity that creates potential, which creates a new possibility in creating additional value, here we are specifically talking about potential in tourism, but at the same time we are against any possibility that a good idea of abuse, and I repeat, by deciding which government, does not matter which government, happened in 2002, the interest that was defined in the mud was later set aside, and I really don't think we have the opportunity to simply out of the good law because of the speedy procedure, and we witness that something like that happened through the debate and when we talked about the Law on Agricultural Land as a good idea, but when it's not part of the system, then it's in something that is extremely harmful for our citizens, so I believe that when we talk about the national interest of golf courses that we will express our responsibility with adequate legal proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22267	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Representative Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22268	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I've got to fix Mr. Korakevic. He alluded that this law would solve the problems that lie at the Blato Golf Course near Zagreb. The problems on the Blato golf course should be solved by Mr Milan Bandic because golf courses are built according to the rules of spatial plans and this law will not affect the spatial plan that is in Zagreb. Therefore, Mr. Korachević said something that does not stand entirely.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22269	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22270	Thank you very much. I would love to, and I will make sure to personally give my colleague Zubovic a phonogram of my debate. What he claims I didn't say, but I'm saying and I'm saying that it's our obligation to create a legal system where what's going on isn't going to happen, and this one that happened at the Blato, and what we got today, it's certainly not that system.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22271	HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22272	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the government, distinguished colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. Here, we have before us a bill that has been in its previous path since the first ideas, and related to golf since the Croatian state has a relatively unsuccessful path and... Since '95. the year when the Ministry of Tourism had already brought a document called "Golf as an element of the development and strategy of Croatian tourism" to then '99. The government adopted a golf development programme as a framework for a long-term policy on the construction of the golf course, to have several Croatian governments' decisions on the topic later in 2000. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And here, since 1995, if we take it as an important year, so today, and today in 2008, it's been 13 years and we can say that today in Croatia we have 3 golf courses that we can say are competitive types, that they have 18 holes, so Krasic, Brijuni and Blato, and that a good part of them today is burdened through the past time by the way it's built and how real it is. Today, the fact is that in Europe we have over 6 400 golf courses from those such as events, Scotland, England, where there are over 2,500, those close to us Mediterraneans, from Spain nearly 300, Italy 240, France 500, where we descend even lower towards the countries that are closer to us and which were well included in a system like ours or close to us, which is the Czech Republic that today has 60 golf courses. Croatia, it is undeniable that Croatia is a tourist country and we can actually say that today Croatia is the only tourist country that does not have an adequate, or almost no golf offer, or offer golf courses on our premises, regardless of whether it is the places related to tourism, primarily the one with the coast, or, and so far, this has been a little word, connected to the continent itself. It is indisputable, and we have all said in good faith that golf is important for the development of tourism, but golf is also a sport developed in Europe, and here we are developing it here now, we are trying in Croatia. The fact that golf extends the tourist season is also indisputable, especially in times outside the season. Our coast is ideal for golf development precisely in that time outside the season and it is indeed high time to use it as such. Whether it is golf courses on the continent or on the coast, when we talk about golf as a tourist offer, it is necessary that there are 5, 6 golf courses in the order of 40, 50 to 100 kilometers in order to develop golf tourism as tourism because it is known that golfers travel the world and Europe and stop in a space that can provide diverse content within 4, 5 days, a diverse offer of golfing in different areas. Unfortunately, today in Croatia we cannot make such an offer. Let me have two, three sentences about always the current topic, and that's the ecology. Here I am using the opportunity to invite you all representatives to my Zaprešić where four years ago we built not a golf course but a golf course but with three holes that are components and possible parts of the golf course that we made according to the ecological standards that within the field of plant and animal life are absolutely the same as it was or even better. And also when it comes to the use of pesticides, the fact that intensive agricultural, especially military production involves several times more use of pesticides than it is today at the golf course, which is more so in the treatment of the field itself, therefore it is not evenly balanced only on certain species, and the world and Europe would not make so many golf courses and we know that it is environmentally aware, that it is not so. When we talk about pre-conditions for golfing, first of all, are the spatial plans of units of local self-government and their specifics to allow the construction of golf courses in the area of their city. So, as we have heard already in 60 units of local self-government, it is either more or less likely in them, and offered by a truly unsuccessful construction of a golf course in that area of our Croatia, I can really say that I would not like to be in the skin of one Mr. Ladić, Kolević apostrophy or a good part of other potential investors who precisely for reasons and this is the inability to buy parts of the area that are needed for the construction of golf course for years I have not been able to realise such an investment and indeed with full responsibility I am giving confirmation of such a bill that finally allows to be bought by market conditions by the country or then having in mind that it is the interest of the Republic of Croatia and at certain times and power to be operationally possible and as such to enter into the realisation. Of course, when we talk about the possibility of local self-government, so the municipality or the city somehow making it sell some of the land as such and to round up the investment unit because in this way, and the local self-government to remind you, by its own spatial plan, that procedure in space is, in some way, an active role for it to be included in such an investment or possible construction. So far, the important issue has always been with us, and today it is going through this debate, is the issue of urbanisation, that is, building housing which, through the proposal of the law, could make up to 25% of the possible construction area enormously, but if we have read the proposal of this law correctly, the fact is that, in addition to catering tourism activities, golf activities, such a change is not possible and it is as such defined by law which significantly reduces the possibility of investment in this direction. But I'm going to be honest and say that over the last 5-6 years there have been 20 potential investors and investments in golf in Zapresic. As counterpart Cain said, building a high-quality and good golf course is measured by millions of euros and for decades there is no investment in building a golf course if there is no adequate and justified economic interest in the largest number of cases in the Republic of Croatia. Because the exceptions have so far been in our city where we just built a golf course as a city, but in another atmosphere of the "New Court" historical complex, so we started to rebuild. In this context, it is also possible for the law to establish and sell parts of commercial objects in order to at this time, and we are all aware of and agree that the economy and the shareholders couture with investments, with capital, to enable possible lower debt and obtaining the necessary crafts resources for the work and development of investments themselves, so that they do not potentially come into question. My colleague Cain, and next time I'm apostropheisting him, he says well and asks her why there's no golf in the Croats. There is no golf in Croatia because so far investors have not been able to take an economic interest in respecting the development of golf, so it is also a return to investment through the existing legal procedure and the conditions that are here for us to realize and implement. With this bill in these possibilities and this situation, we are now creating this possibility and we believe that in the time ahead, we will have an adequate way of entering the golf business, but also the overall benefit for Croatian citizens. I'll say here, and it was exclusively about the tourist segment that it was a development of sport. After we made the golf course, only a golf course in Zapresic we joined 150 members and today they are active those who play golf in Zapresic primarily citizens of Zapresic. If today were the best... Croatia and here we broke out another name exclusively that golf is an elite sport, so the sport of rich people is exclusively. [[You don't understand.]] With us, we have given an exceptional emphasis on young people and in this way through low prices, as we have gained the enrolment of golfing for another sport that has been developed and established in Europe. Here I also touched a segment called public golf and the fact is that in Europe other than that concept, which is a) closed golf clubs with a special clientele, open golf clubs, a large segment has also a public approach and certain countries of golf associations are exactly giving and alluding to that public, so that the greater number of young people engage in active golfing and as tennis was indeed an elite sport 30 to 40 years ago, and today it is not, the emphasis is that in the context of golfing in the time that is trying to work in a similar way or the same way. From all I've said so far, I can confirm that the Croatian Democratic Community's Representatives' Club will support the passing of laws by emergency procedure. Mr. President, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22273	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22274	Thank you very much. Here's what I'd like to do is correct a quote from a fellow Turk who said that this floor would be used in order for investors to be less in debt. I am convinced that this provision is used in law to create extra profit by selling real estate on golf courses. And I say once again that this law is in force, in Zagreb it would be a legal sale of houses on a golf course in Blato. Because it wasn't so defined so far, they couldn't sell them, and it's the only crime they've ever committed there. And that's why I think it's not the responsibility or the help in the investment that's the key in this law, but to create extra profit for those who are going to invest in golf courses tomorrow, and it's not golfers, it's the ones who are going to make apartments, houses, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22275	Vice-President of the House, Mr. Representative Josip Friscic, on behalf of the HSS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22276	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Surely the legislative proposal that is before us presents a certain challenge. We know what our goals are, we follow what others are doing, and very often when they need to be implemented with us, then we stop, we search for solutions or we look for solutions that are not acceptable anywhere else, and very often then projects reject those who are interested in them, become invaluable or what we say often we are the ones who are asking for a patent to be recognized that we invented hot water. It didn't happen to us on one project. Remember only when we started, started a certain action to build a swimming pool and then had to go to Germany or Austria and hear, they said if you build a complex of thousands of squares then make at least you have to build three thousand, because two-thirds have to be commercial content to make it worth it. No, we went that thousand and then every year the budget invested, give and the story is that it's worth it elsewhere, and it's not with us. I don't want to talk about those actions when it comes to dealing with municipal waste. If Europe has said there is no cost-effective care for less than 500 thousand, but we have in the spatial plans for 50 grand and for 5 thousand inhabitants. Only no one wants to figure out how much it costs and who will eventually pay for it. And why am I doing these comparisons now? Because dozens of golf courses in Europe that I believe the legislators have considered, felt, saw and installed. Because what's given the numbers, what's the surface, the number of holes built on the surface, that all of this together has its meaningful content and function, such square ratios should be provided here. And I'm convinced that that's exactly what the promoters did because we've started to speculate in Parliament both now and tonight whether it's 15% construction, 20%, 25%. I wouldn't want to be among those who will speculate in this way in this project. It is certain that we have set certain goals and that others have set us positions. What does that mean? If someone has few connections and acquaintances can go to Vienna, to an institute that has filmed European regions for the purposes of the European Union, and countries in transition have been taken as a whole as regions and worked for them, for several decades in advance of the sustainability of life in these areas and the purposes of certain areas within the Union and when it comes to Croatia, our perspective is within this vision of the development of agriculture, processing industry and tourism. And now the thing is, we're gonna stand there. We can take that chance, I believe we'll take it, and we can let it go. And that's why we're late with this law. We're late, because we should have brought it in earlier when the first guidelines were brought in, but still it's better to bring it now than to have these objects happen, these playgrounds built, and then we have to... It's like there's nothing there, and there's already. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also certain that our goal in tourism, and I think that we have introduced it towards 12 billion euros, is impossible to achieve if we are to implement it through the construction of apartments, self-editation of beaches that must be arranged and the story of the beautiful sea, because it is an activity in the best conditions from 15.6. to 15 September, and our wish is that this activity lasts throughout and through the facilities that are possible. In addition, on the tourist market in the offer, but better say in demand there are changes. People want active tourism. People want sports tourism. People want extreme sports, etc. during vacation. We have a chance for all of this, but for that we need to create certain opportunities for those who come to consume it. It is safe to add up the spatial plans of units of local and regional self-government in Croatia 62 are for planned golf courses. It will be very difficult to realise, at least not in one short period, but it is also certain that what counterpart Cain was talking about is that for three, four, five playgrounds in Croatia there are interested investors and there are conditions to access their construction. But that's something to say. Every kuna or every euro that will be invested in these contents, and these are not investments from the state budget, but they are private investments, it is generally foreign capital that will boost investments, it multiplys into other content, because golf belongs to the group of elite tourism, by its consumers. He's looking for an airport, looking for a road, looking for a high-class hotel, looking for restaurants with a quality offer. And it creates a chance, opens up possibilities for other activities around it and very significant and perspective. Some of the speeches we didn't connect to were not included in this hotel sector. Like where. I have spoken to some hotelers and they have just listed these obstacles that have so far been highlighted, the unresolved issue of tourist land, the unsettled possibility of forming a plot of the size needed for such content, and thus preventing the finding of partners who would come together into the realization of such ventures. And if we're just looking at the four playgrounds, that's 300 million, about 300 million euros in investment, then it's clear that it's also the ones that build the infrastructure, that there's a chance for our construction. And if there's going to be a need reduction in one sector, these are exactly the sectors where these needs can be opened and I believe that's what's going to happen. And for that reason, I believe that as far as these technical matters are concerned, that the government, that the minister and his associates will just compare to other countries, to other areas, because there is no experience of giving us convincing answers, and when it comes to the idea, about the need to pass this law, the HSS Club will support and vote for its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22277	Thank you. At 18.45, it was time to report a ten-minute hearing. Two corrections. First Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22278	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Friscic's, in an attempt to declare all who question the content of the law to be enemies of the fund, said investment in the construction of the golf course is not a state investment. That's incorrect. 62 golf courses with 85 hectares in minimum is 5 thousand 276 hectares of agricultural land converted without compensation for re-use and without compensation for water contribution is a direct investment of the state in private property. And given the planned exposure of owners, even the contribution of Croatian citizens who will help the investor build golf courses at the lowest price. So the state loses the budget of the planned funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22279	Second correction, Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22280	Thank you very much. Mr. Friscic said that talking to certain hotelers means there is hotel support. I know Mr Frištic that there is an association called the Croatian Association of Hotelers and Restaurants, which gathers all the hotels bigger in Croatia. There are also small hotels that have sent a letter to the Ministry of Tourism and complain that they have not consulted them on the adoption of not only this law, but also the laws that we have passed before this. And that's why I said this law wasn't made in cooperation with the relevant tourism factors. In this sense, those who live on tourism and those to whom it should be of interest. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22281	Let's have an individual discussion. Mrs. Representative Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22282	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government. I'm going to start the debate with one very one question. What is the proposal of the Law on Golf Courses that we are discussing today, a document of exceptional public interest? With a very careful reading of this document, I have not been able to find any excessive answer to this very simple question, and it is indisputable that this bill is being served by the proposings, which is the Ministry of Tourism, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Croatia as a document of exceptional public interest. This is also visible through the enforcement of the emergency procedure of this document, although it is not a law with a European omen, nor a law on which the lives and fates of Croatian citizens and citizens depend. The promoter is a public interest found in the argument that tourism is a strategic economic activity for Croatia, that it is in our exceptional interest to extend the tourist season in Croatia, and the magic wand that will enable it is precisely mass construction of golf courses throughout Croatia without any strategy, plan and order. The spacious plans of our cities and municipalities provide for the construction of as many as 60 golf courses in Croatia, which is the number that this bill is also experiencing, when it provides us with information on an average of 6 to 7 golf courses per million tourists, which is reportedly the average in tourist and Mediterranean countries. If we apply this to Croatia, which was reportedly visited by some 11 million tourists in 2007, we come to a famous 60 golf course number. Where? Well, you know. in attractive coastal Adriatic areas, in karst and just along the coast of the sea. And how much construction of 60 golf courses according to this law will have facilities of exceptional importance for the Republic of Croatia with negative effects on the environment, this bill does not speak in general. And precisely the negative effects on the environment and nature are the main reasons why the European Union countries have significantly tempered their enthusiasm for building new golf courses over the past few years. Because golf courses require extremely much irrigation, maintenance of monocultural grass, requires the use of large quantities of various chemicals, fertilisers, hebricids and pesticides that systematically poison water, especially extremely valuable groundwater in karst areas, and permanently pollute the soil. Should it be recalled that the towns and municipalities on the Adriatic coast, already today have extremely big problems with water supply in the summer months, when a large number of eco-aware and needed tourists travel to relatively small areas in the already famous manner of mass tourism a la Cro. What happens to water supply in these parts if we build that number of golf courses? The reasons why I object to this bill are not only motivated by the desire to protect and preserve the environment, but also by the desire to preserve space as extremely valuable, I would say the most valuable Croatian resource, especially when we talk about an attractive coastal area. And the indisputable fact is that this bill puts that space at risk. Namely, this law is just incredibly liberal in terms of the construction and sale of apartments and villas that are clearly planned to be built massively within the golf course and on the surface of 25% of the total floor area of the playground. Since the promoter predicts that the golf course must have a minimum of 85 hectares and is not in line with the practice of other countries where the 18-hole playgrounds meet in some 60 hectares, this means that it is allowed to build apartments and other accompanying facilities in almost 20 hectares, which is a very large building area in extremely attractive areas. In other words, welcome to concreteisation and apartmentisation in Croatian way, or bad news for Croatian space but excellent news for investors of hungry profits. For these investors, the hungry profit of this bill is being handled by another precisely incredible provision of this bill. Those are the provisions concerning the expropriation. Article 9 stipulates that an exemption is allowed for the purpose of building a golf course up to 20% of the total area of the playground and that is very, very much again. In this regard, I think it is necessary to remind myself that the expropriation measures are used to realise extremely important projects of public interest such as infrastructure corridors, roads, highways and golf courses, at least in a world where I live are not objects of such public interest. Why? Because golf courses are used by a relatively small number of people mostly by higher payload capacity because the realisation of golf courses is an investment, spatial and environmentally invasive and added value that the social community can have from the realization of such projects is extremely small. In this regard, I conclude that realising golf courses is particularly harmful to the interests of the wider social community in Croatia. Or in other words, big investments, minimal benefits. A large number of people are not employed on golf courses, which would potentially benefit the local community and resource consumption is enormous. In the law, the proposer suggests that the revenues from golf tourism are large, so I guess the scale of the profit scale should outweigh the damage to the environment and space on the other side of the scale. However, when asked on the committee, how many incomes so far and the economic benefits of existing golf courses in Brijuni and Krasic, and in Blato, the promoter did not answer that question. We can only question why, whether income is negligible or because there's no record of it. I don't know which of these two variants is worse because one means knowingly and horrendous fraud and betraying public interests, and the other involves the incredible unpreparedness of the competent executive authorities who are flying into a mass golf project like geese in the fog. After all I've said before, I have to ask this question. Who is in the interest of this law at all, because this law is definitely not in the interest of Croatian citizens and citizens and is not in the interest of Croatian tourism or Croatian economy. I think that it is clear to all of us today who are discussing this law that this law is in the exclusive interest of large-scale capital, especially golf investors and construction lobbys, which, through this law, are wide open to the possibility of simple concreteisation and apartmentization of extremely valuable space, with the whole-hearted assistance of state structures. But the work of state structures is not to defend the particular interests of narrow mostly elite lobbys but to defend the public interest of all Croatian citizens and citizens. And that interest is the preserved environment and space and the prevention of the new perfit robbery of resources that this law legalises. Therefore, dear colleagues and colleagues, I appeal to your conscience and invite you not to support this immoral and unfair bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22283	Representative Dragica Zgrebec reported on the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22284	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I agree with my colleague Holly with this presentation of yours especially as it goes with one intention to declare the law that it is because of the public interest and it is not really a public interest, it is an individual and private interest. All that you've said is, so we're going to have the authority, that we're going to use certain reliefs, we're not going to pay for the re-use of agricultural land, and just before we discussed it, just a few hours ago, how the agricultural land should be preserved. So the construction of the golf course will be mostly on the Adriatic. On the one hand, we have concreteization and construction of apartment settlements. On the other hand, we'll build golf courses. Everyone who has any idea what golf clubs are next to the playgrounds are building hotels that hotels clubs closed, fenced, have their own clientele that has no relationship with the environment at all. Therefore, what will eventually be employed, and for a certain time it will be cadyi or golf bat carriers and those who will occasionally cut and treat the grass on that playground.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22285	Thank you. Further to the debate, the esteemed representative Mario Zubovic. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22286	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President. Here, you need to answer the question why Croatia does not have any golf course. In all these 18 years of Croatia's independence, no playground has been built and this law wants to answer precisely that question why we were not able to make golf course in either the coast or the continent. There have been attempts and it is said that there is a golf course in Krasic and indeed there is one golf course in Krasic but it is not finished, it is not complete. It can't be used for one, say, a better tournament. Here next to Zagreb in Blato, we have a golf course that will be almost finished. In Brijuni we have a golf course that is not a real golf course because the greens are made of sand, they are not grassy because there is no water on Brijuni. So when the promoters went to work, they wanted to allow a golf course to be built in Croatia. I must say that Croatia has a great chance of connecting golf and tourism, especially using golf useful outside the summer season or in the winter season when in neighbouring countries Austria, Germany, Italy, Hungary and Slovenia cannot play golf because such weather opportunities are at sea, even on the coast on the islands can be played. So golf can extend the tourist season and it's not true what some say a very small number of people are employed on golf and there is no economic benefit from such objects. If we count that there are 7 million people in Europe who played golf only one small number that would come to play as tourists in Croatia for sure that Croatian tourism would make a very good income. I must further say that here are some, some have mentioned that this law will allow some wild construction, concreteization around the golf course. It must be stressed that the construction of the golf course will continue to be within spatial plans and that is what I wanted to explain to Mr. Koračević that it will not, that does not mean that 25% of the golf course will be built for the facilities. Objects will continue to be built on a spatial basis. The way the spatial plan predicted. I must further say that only 52%, about 52% on average, of the entire complex, is only 52% on a golf course. That's what I'm saying because here before me they were talking about the great pollution the golf course could cause. Each industry carries with it pollution. That's how he wears golf, but that doesn't mean that this pollution is going to be excessive and he doesn't care about it. This government and this Ministry of Environmental Protection has shown environmental concerns over the past 5 years, and only when, when we remember what was done with plastic bottles and cans, how did Croatia get rid of it means that the government also thinks that environmental protection, to protect the environment and pollution that could happen on golf. I'd still like to mention, right here in the replica of Mrs. Advocacy, she said it was an elite sport, that it was closed clubs that others couldn't come to, it's just not true. We and this little thing that we have objects like in Zapresić and in Blat anyone can come, anyone. They're open clubs. And it might be convenient for our cities, our counties to think about building public playgrounds that would not be built by private investors but would be built by the state or the county or the city. Furthermore, I must say that golf in the world, especially in Europe in the last 20 years, has actually been booming. Over 100% have increased the number of people playing golf. There's been an increase in revenue on golf courses. The revenues of those who deal with tourism have also increased. These are Turkey and Portugal's best indicators of golf tourism. I hope with this law we can finally make such an air conditioning in Croatia to build at least 4.5 golf courses in the next few years if not 20 and here someone has said that 62 golf courses are planned. Well, God forbid it's true. This means that a very large capital would enter Croatia and that a lot of people would be employed. I don't think I can go through the night and make a golf course very fast. It must be known that at least two, three, four years of construction of the golf course. It is not, the golf course cannot be built as quickly as one building, such as "Arena" in Zagreb. The golf course still takes a little more time. And that is why I hope that this law will really enable us to get golf courses in Croatia in the next few years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22287	Thank you very much. We've got one report of a rectification. Dear representative of my colleague Boris Shprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22288	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, respected counterpart Dr. Zubovic said there is no golf course in the Republic of Croatia. So I have to fix it because...... I know, but it's not, it's the government, look. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The government wrote in page 1 at the very end, I read the materials: "There are currently two golf courses in Croatia, 17 holes, 18 holes" and so on, right? If the government claims to have, I trust them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22289	Thank you very much. We have two reported replicas. First of all, distinguished colleague Tanja Vrbat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22290	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. At the beginning of your presentation, you asked yourself, quite frankly, how did my colleague Šprem point out that why do we not have golf courses in Croatia? We've got them planned, but we don't have any realized. Because investors in golf courses are not meant to build a golf course but is intended to build villas, apartments and other facilities of accompanying content that are now called in this law and that is the goal of building golf courses. Unfortunately. These investors faced a very large number of obstacles that in spatial-planned documentation, which in high, high land prices and other contributions and therefore these projects were so weak, slow to go. Here I am hoping to enlighten you a little bit in that scepty of yours, why don't we have a golf course? But don't worry, I'm sure we'll have 'em in our arms right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22291	Thank you. Replication response. A colleague of Zubović's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22292	So I really asked why we didn't have any. You said, "Because investors want to build buildings and sell. " But I wonder why Slovenia has 11? Why is there a hundred in Austria? Why is there 341 in Ireland? That's the question why is there? Why aren't we here? I'm going to use this replica to tell Mr. Sprem that, Mr. Sprem in Croatia, they have two golf courses and I play on them regularly but they're not complete. The golf course in Krasic has only a playground. He doesn't have a club house. You don't have anywhere to wash, you don't have anywhere to go to the bathroom. In, the Blato playground isn't over yet, it's not grassy and right now that playground has a problem with those houses around. So these playgrounds don't have any applicable permits, but we've been playing them for 10 years, Mr. Shrem.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22293	Thank you very much. We have another report of replica, colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22294	Thank you very much. Mr Zubovic said that this law will not change anything, but that where it can be built, spatial plans will be determined. Mr. Zubović, in spatial plans will write you a golf course or a sports-recreation golf zone, and you have now defined by this law what it is all golf course in a narrow and wider sense. And in Article 2 of golf to you in a broader sense, it means that the club house and that I am not reading any further catering and tourist buildings intended for accommodations that can be built up to 25%, which says that this law defines that you are now where you play golf in Blata those houses will remain, because they do not occupy 25% of the space, but will be able to build more and in some way they will be able to capitalize cheap land for the sale of squares in these apartments. So nothing will define spatial plans. This law defined that it could be built.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22295	Replication response, colleague Zubovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22296	My colleague, if it were the way you say it, I'd be against the law. No, because it's not like that. You don't understand. Building on the ground will be determined, the amount of construction will be determined by the urban plan. This law does not determine what will be built there. The urban plan can say that only 5% will be built there. If it were the way you're connecting now, it would be a disaster. We wouldn't want that because we don't want any senseless construction either. We want you to be able to build, to build golf courses. Golf courses are not profitable and someone who wants to make a golf course must earn money in some other way, which is to make a hotel on it because it takes 20 years to pay off the golf course. If he pays the land, if he pays all the contributions and until the playground does. You understand? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22297	Thank you very much. That's what we say we speak in the same language, but we read differently, because that do is right over us. Okay. Let's go to the debate the distinguished colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović has applied. She's gone. He's losing his right to argue. Tatijana Šimac Bonačić also came forward for discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22298	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. In this proposal, in fact, too much emphasis is placed on how to actually get the cheap, attractive land to make a multiple profit on it. In the opening part, I would really like to express one question about the introductory text of this proposal for a law on golf courses where we as Croatia are placed in a group of significantly larger countries that certainly have larger surfaces that cannot find better application than golf courses. There is also an idea in discussions and in this law to extend the tourist season with golf, which is actually impossible, because more than our wishes and dreams climate conditions work against us. This proposal of the law on golf courses in only 16 articles actually opens the door wide to the destruction and sale and grab of Croatian space. And this law looks like it's writing or it's written by an interesting lobby. I repeat, it is argued that golf provides us with the possibility of even more successful construction of Croatia's image, that it is a serious minus of Croatian tourist offer and, of course, a precise solution is required in this to pass the law by an urgent procedure, to declare the construction of a golf course of the special interest of the Republic of Croatia, to rule out real estate and, of course, the staging of catering and tourist buildings. I would like to make a few remarks on the individual articles, so Article 1 does not allow existing owners to enter into a partnership relationship with the investor or is not left with the possibility of replacing land at another location. Article 3 is too large to be built on the surface. It might be the same awareness of some 15% we've heard before, especially if we're talking about a micro location. Let's say Srdj where we have sometimes overcrowded beds through hotels and apartments at his foot. Then Article 9 again goes too far with the percentages, i.e. for such a megalomanic project 20% of the missing terrain that could be ruled out for the realization of the project. It is nothing more than giving up to potential investors and which is often questionable financial capabilities. Of course, there is no mention of ecologicality, of potential environmental hazards, of the justification of state investment in infrastructure, and I would look again at my Dubrovnik which actually has very little and potential areas within the municipality and in fact the whole building of social housing and objects of general use. What I am also concerned about may have been missed, but it is not mentioned, for example, that an eco-acceptability of the construction of a golf course at a particular micro location is not actually happening, nor what happens at the time when a project of the golf course is realized, for example, to experience its fiasco. What then with contaminated areas, with objects that can't change their purpose now. In particular, I would like to highlight Article 10 of the Law, which prescribes the possibility and conditions under which the beneficiary of the authorisation may enter into property that is subject to the power of the decision to be granted. Therefore, it is prescribed that the beneficiary of the exemption must only submit a request to the competent authority of the state administration in the sense of specific rules on the exemption, and that it will be granted the same only if he submits proof that the previous owner has been paid compensation in accordance with specific rules on the exemption, i.e. that that fee is made available to him. I'm going back to Srj. In 2004, when agents and associates interested in selling square meters to Srđ, offered 20 euros per square, or 750 euros per year per hectare of the leased country. This land was then marked by agricultural land. After the adoption of urban urban plans, as well as the county spatial plan that addressed them, and the areas of Srdje were naturally marked with building land, which increased the value of these parcels, so many of the owners who sold or leased land were deceived. Now this law goes one step further. If you're not going to sell the land at the price I'm offering, then I'm going to take your land immediately if you accept that amount. But if you don't accept it, then I'll file proof that I've made it available to you, or that you can take it if you want or won't. This Article also provides that the competent authority shall decide on the entry into possession of the authorised property and that the appeal against that solution does not delay its enforcement. I mentioned the internship earlier because Article 7(1) speaks of it, so for those who do not know, it is the establishment of ownership of a particular part of the property, the material property, and the connection of this special part with the relevant co-ownership part, the ideal part of the property. In this case, there is a unity of real estate, for example golf courses and facilities built on the playground. And I'm going to remind you of one event in Dubrovnik, a scandal when the sudden changes in the county space plan of the playground area increased by 3 times. Let us remember that the amendment and the addition of the plan, that the amendment and addition were signed by the then Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and the Dubrovnik-Neretva County. Therefore, it was not only a suspended democratic procedure, but rather a conjecture about it. I can conclude that not because of the name, because as I read somewhere, golf in the name means "gentlemens only, lalies forbidden", not because of it, but because of all the remarks I've made tonight and that I've heard from others, I'm not going to support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22299	Thank you very much. We have two applications for replication. First of all, Honorable Agent Anton Mance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22300	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Minister with his associates. Well, here I am, reporting for this replica, I'm the mayor of Vrbovski, so in the Primorje-Gorski County and we've been trying to build a golf course. Therefore, I was offered this debate on heavy suspicions, but Mr. Zubovic spoke well of it, so I would just supplement how it turned out in practice. So we wanted to build a golf course, but we couldn't solve property-legal relations with 12 people. So I'm in that space, so the continental part where master-plans of tourism development are made, means where the ski resorts are mentioned and golf courses as a possibility. I didn't know anything about golf courses and some of the information I heard, I heard them from the German architect who came, he went through that space, it's done specifically for us in Severin on the Cup, maybe they remember him earlier when they were traveling, so they used to stand there on the lamb, and so I heard a lot of information about how it should be, which is a little playground, which is a big golf course and these famous stories about 25%. He was talking about 10% of the space where something needs to be built. Or as we speak today in the zone, 30%. So 30% of the area's space is being built, the rest isn't being built. I can't support it, I can't agree with your suggestions that you, and I doubt, which you point out here. Even this is whether there's a golf course on the beach. Well, probably in the summer months from 11 to 4 won't play. I suggested that location because it was a milder climate because he wanted to build it exactly in Vrbovska and we were as a local community and how we accepted it. What would you decide? Do you build a golf course or factory... Well, I guess it's a golf course. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How much is it employed? That's what I've heard from them, at least 20 people, young people who need to know a language and so on. The proximity, the use of water resources and everything else. I'm telling you that you're wrong about this, you're speaking theoretically, in practice I can tell you, I'm calling you, and we haven't been able to solve it, I see that this law will solve it, so that 12. We killed damaged that area, so what are we going to build there then if we've made all the plans both of us and the county, and now we're not going to build it any further. Then what are we going to build? If we don't make that ski resort, if we don't build a golf course. And that's where I can't agree with you. I will uphold this law and for us it is, for my city, that law is acceptable. There may be some small things, but they don't matter, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22301	Thank you. Replication response, Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22302	Well, every middle has, thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, every middle has its own problems, but I'm certainly not up to the authority of 12 people who would give at a certain price, so tomorrow I'm certainly more expensive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22303	Thank you very much. And the next report of the replica, distinguished colleague Tanja Vrbat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22304	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Respected, respected and dear colleague Šimac-Bonačić, you are wondering why this bill provides for privileges? Here's what I'm going to do to show you how it's going to be in practice. The famous golf course of Kempin hotels in the area of my city, i.e. in the area of Savudrija near which I live, and unfortunately I am very familiar with this problem, stretches to about 90 hectares of land and we have recently discovered that two plots are owned by the city. It is a plot of about 3 hectares along the coastal belts that are within the already made golf course. The city begins to negotiate with the investor, assess the sale of the terrain, and suddenly the investor says no, we are no longer interested. They're all in a hundred wonders that they don't want to buy what they're investing in and then this bill comes up, and I think we're all clear on what it's going to mean in this law and in this particular example.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22305	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica, no need. Then I give my word to my esteemed colleague, Vrbat Tanja, who answered for the debate. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22306	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with his associates. There's something I've already had a chance to say about this law, and I have to say that it's touching this much personally, and I have to simply claim that I find it scandalous. The fact that you're waving from the bench and saying that the coverage of the building land will be, the power will be 5%, the power will be less, I absolutely don't believe it, and I invite anyone who wants to come and see what apartment settlements will come into the scope of these golf courses. ... Here, come on. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We'll get the lamb too. Here's a colleague who says it looks like lamb, so it'll be there. This law simply reminded me of what lawyers call ad persona laws. These are laws that work for certain people, so they're tailored to certain individuals. But there is no legal phrase to say that certain laws are tailored to the needs of certain investors. I consider this law to be really designed and built on the needs of investors in golf courses. Unfortunately, this is not about improving the tourist offer or creating Croatia as an elite tourist destination, which we all want so declared we are all for it. I personally am for it, but I think this law is the least we're going to get, we're going to get it. We are at prices already an elite destination, and unfortunately we are not. I think this law is simply about fast, how fast, easy, very cheap way and under the auspices of nothing less than national interests will come to very attractive building land. I believe this is a law on apartmentization in a protected coastal belt and wider. Even in the very explanation of the law, I quote: For the adoption of the law by emergency procedure there are particularly justified state reasons, because the adoption of such a law depends on the continuation of the construction of a golf course on state land. The adoption of such a law depends on the end of several start-up investments for which even a consortium is established, which have stalled and there is a real danger that they are not realised. So investors are in danger of not being able to invest their capital. Also on the adoption of this law says further in the reasoning of the law, further possible expected investments by these investors in the form of this tourist offer, which depends greatly on the overall development of tourism as a strategic branch of the Croatian economy. So it is explicitly recognised to protect investors at the expense of space protection, nature protection, space-plan regulation, the very constitution of guaranteed landowners, local budgets and a whole series of rights of our citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It is further said that the adoption of this law depends on further possible expectations for investors to invest in the form of a tourist offer, etc. etc. I believe this depends solely on the state of well-being of the ruling party's cash register leading this country. No one here has said that investors building two golf courses in the city of Umag are on the list, an official list of political party financiers, or ruling parties. They did become Kempin later, but these are the residences of Skeeter and it's a common known thing. It's true political corruption in the right sense of the word. This is an eclectic example of that. This is something that needs to be fought against, not those 100 euros they give to doctors, of course it's not positive either, but this is real political corruption, that's what the European Commission points to, and that's what binds us to the Balkan chains and not that it distances us from the European Union, and that's why you've already figured out why, because I come from a city that has 15 thousand inhabitants and where there are 4 golf courses planned, two are in realisation, one is in front of the opening itself. My fellow citizens support it, but not in this way how these investors treat the local community and what we've done with them in these last ten years, so I'd say they've lived for 10 years. Investors of two of these four golf courses, as I have already said, are the official biggest financiers of the ruling party, so I am absolutely not surprised that this law is settled according to their needs. Because every article of this law, but every single article is a solution from one of the under quotes, I would say the problems investors of these concrete golf courses have encountered. In a protected coastal belt where we know we can not build as much as anyone wants, and plus this is about Piran Bay where there are other national interests that we need to protect, in that coastal belt towns and municipalities, privates own plots, land that already have very high prices on the market, and now investors of golf courses, as I have said in the replica of my colleague Bonačić, by authority, by very simple authority, and before it is decided for the benefit of this exaggeration, will win this expensive terrain. I think it's a robbery. I don't know a different name for it and I repeat it doesn't do golf as a sport and as an elite destination and I don't know what we haven't said here yet, but simply for selling apartments and other properties. Because if we are convinced otherwise, I will publicly apologize, because this bill stipulates that the coverage of the golf course must have at least 85 hectares and the construction is possible and up to 25% claims by the minister that the climate of the head can be less. I doubt that. It will be a gray zone in space-planned documents where it will be built ruthlessly, demostrate primarily coastal belts, sell real estate to foreigners etc. And it's not about small money, it's about small spaces. Because here I am not particularly good at math, in numbers, but I can calculate. The city of Umag plans 4 golf courses, 85 hectares, and with 25% times 4 out of 85 hectares, that's 85 acres, so that's a huge area. 85 acres of built area, i.e. apartment, villa and who knows what else. He says counterpart Zubovic needs places to shower, needs a bathroom, I don't know what. So what are those shower cabins that are going to be built there, if that's the problem. There will be co-workers and colleagues of all villages, urbicides and ecocides on our coast. Golf courses become simple polygons for building apartments and other tourist catering facilities. In this proposal, the law explains that there are two golf courses currently with 18 holes and another 9-hole exercise site. Here will be opened soon and this one in the Savudrija area, but what more of these golf courses are not realised is because the boastful investors were illegally building, blackmailing local authorities to legalize them with the help of the government and they're getting into a fight with local communities that are trying to protect their space, and therefore they find themselves in big trouble and so they're ordering this law and now they're going to get it and we're going to see all together what's going to happen. Unfortunately, I think it's just going to legalize that illegal construction that already exists there. So don't worry, everyone who cares, the golf courses will be realised very quickly, and within their scope, the accompanying facilities, the apartments, the real villas, and I think even more fictitious golfers will be built even faster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22307	Thank you very much. I see you're worried, be careful not to shoot our balls in Slovenia, because then it's threatened by this consent. Yeah, okay. This is a little joke. We have three replicas reported. First of all, distinguished colleague Ranko Ostojić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22308	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Minister, the Government's representatives. Comrade Vrbat, I'd just a little bit more of a plastic illustration of what you just said about 85,000 acres to be built in Umag. To be exact, these 18,000 flats of 50 square meters, so we're a little more precise in that part. I hope that my mathematics is accurate and that this is exactly what you just said, and that's that under cover of building actually a golf course hides quite a different actually interest, and that's the serious construction and new decommissioning of state property.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22309	Thank you. Furthermore, registered for the replica, distinguished representative Davor Bernardic. ... And that's his plate. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22310	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I admit I picked up a replica board. So when we talk about the public's great national interest of expropriation, I wouldn't want to get into how much golfing national interest it is, but I would remind myself that with everything that has to be on the golf course I suggest you put on a helipad. In fact, we on the islands are quite the problem of property-legal relations with the construction of a helipad to provide first aid. How big it is, and how it still can't be authorized to save people's lives, it can't be authorized, but for this it can. I ask you to at least put a heliodore on the islands in this where it must be built by night landing, so that we can at least save people if they've already given golf course. By the way, I'm skeptical about the water supply. There needs a lot of water for golf courses, we on the islands have some water supply problems, but it doesn't matter. As for other things, I noticed that all our ministries have several things in the name of the economy, work and entrepreneurship, agriculture, forestry, regional development, rural etc. Only the tourism ministry has nothing. Well, I think it's a mature time to change it when we change the law in the government at the Ministry of Tourism and Golf. And as for what you're saying about these ruling party financiers, I think there's an old one that you're completely naked about, in fact, what this is all about and that it might be conveniently applied that the emperor is golfing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22311	Thank you. This was a colleague of Arsen Bauk's, and a reply to the replica was a distinguished colleague of Tanja Vrbat's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22312	Thank you. Comrade Bauk, you immediately referred to your favorite theme, which is islands, so you remembered me one thing, and here you and your colleague Ostojić, who is a better mathematician than me, so he calculated that this is about 18 thousand possible apartments. I don't think this government will support it either, that nobody can. But one thousand will certainly be built. But I only hope that Umag with four golf courses gets at least one high school and that at least the government will allow high school to be built. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22313	Thank you. Next, a distinguished colleague of Gordana Sobol came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22314	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Vrbat, in your discussion, you mentioned, of course, the case you have in the area where you live, in the area of the city of Umag. Among other things, you have said, you have complained in some way, in the haughtiness of the investors they have shown so far and are obviously even more boastful lately. I'd say they had someone to look up to. Let us look at the way and how the ruling party or the ruling one, or the government, is coming here in the face of parliamentary representatives with such a bill. You just said some of these investors, and so far they've been the financiers of the ruling party, specifically HDZ, and I'm saying, since it is as you said and in part the most difficult form of political corruption, that these investors are going to pay by emergency procedure very much to the ruling ones again, because in a few months, my God is coming local elections. I don't know what else could be.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22315	Thank you very much. Next up, a distinguished colleague, Jerko Roshin, appeared for discussion. Here you go. ... Let's correct the quote. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22316	Thank you. Respecting Mr. Chairman quite well and possibly a large amount of sarcasm in this debate which allowed, and when it comes to the boastful fellow Members I will invite you to this city, so when it comes to the price of land, even golfing, when it comes to... than several times the market price, so if it's concrete, it's 20, 30 or 50 euros, then it's a 500 or a thousand situation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Ladic did not make golf because he did not want to pay a fair fee, but rather respected colleagues for being blackmailed. You know, every line has one end and the other end, so when we talk about a certain part, be sure that there's the other part and who's actually a good part of it and who's inclined to behave this way, because that's exactly what it's conditioned that good or most of it couldn't be solved financially at all, so when we talk about prices that are market fair if we mean it and we know what it's about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22317	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22318	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Article 209 has been injured. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Namely, the representative may request an correction of the incorrect indication during the time the other representative speaks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22319	Here's the service saying it was done on time, and I'm the only one who didn't notice it in time, so get back.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22320	An apology to Mr. Representative, then it's a criticism to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22321	Then the mistake goes on my soul. Okay. If that's the biggest, I'll take it with my heart. Then let's move on to the debate. Dear colleague Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22322	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, members of the ministry. I didn't speak on behalf of the board when it was an opportunity because I expected to say a lot in my special discussion what I said at the committee session. After I spoke to my colleague Holly, she told me that my conviction was a lot of passion, that passion would not be now at this moment she blew up after this whole day, but I'm going to say what I think is important that I can say. I'm not even going to say the debate I had prepared, but I'd rather comment on a lot of what was said in tonight's debate, and I think there's more to it than the bill itself. So what dominated tonight's debate is the subject of suspicions and abuses of the law before it even started to apply and if we talk about these abuses then these abuses are already in some way here in the Parliament itself. It's been abused many times and it's been said and it's wrong to quote and replica and tossing another trash ball and there's a lot being abused, but of course it's small things. That's just what I'm saying as a picture. I'd almost say the card in this. Something I really regret that it doesn't exist in the House, it's that there's no possibility of projections so that when many people talk about something they know what they're talking about or show them what the word itself can't show, because they say that one image is worth like a thousand or I don't know how many thousands of words. Indeed, how many times in discussions or committees have it been useful to make presentations both vividly, not just verbally. Now what's important to point out as something that might possibly lead us to a result and a path, these are different visions of the same thing. It's not just a matter of looking left and right, it's really in a statement that can be interpreted one way or another. There's no fellow Shex who likes a couple jokes, so I won't tell you, I'll leave for another time at the expense of that different vision than buying and spending money. But everything that's pointed out, not everything, I apologize, but a lot of what's said as bad can be looked at from another point of view. My colleague Cain, who is now gone, but I'm not telling him behind his back, remains what he said he talked about the problem of selling land, how the sale of land fell, and that's what he says in a negative context, that people can't get the money to pay for the loans, etc. Not long before we talked about how selling land is harmful to sell, who all comes to own or own that land, so you see there are these different views of one and the same thing. Noting so much of what is said, the theme is 85 acres from 70 acres as intended as one dimension as one size of a golf course, so that such a law can be applied. On the one hand, it's said to be a large area, that golf can be made on a smaller surface, but on the other hand it needs to be 85 to come into a clause that allows this type of construction to be envisaged by law. So it could be on smaller playgrounds, so there would be a lot more playgrounds and then a lot more of such playgrounds used and some of the benefits that this law provides for for a reason, whether justified or not, but predicted. Of course about 85 and 70 acres, 15 acres of difference, we can also look at 60 golf courses. 60, 62 of what's said. How did 60 to 62 golf courses get here? It is not the fruit of a state strategy, it is not the fruit of a strategy on the construction of a golf course, it is not even the fruit of a tourism development strategy. It came because when the planners worked out some spaces, solved spatial planning documentation, made this one say look you can put a golf course on me, too. So there came a lot of these golfes as an opportunity to build, but you saw that none was built, but others discussed it, so I'm not going to repeat that story, why it wasn't built. However, one illustration that is very important for this is that a huge amount of building land is also foreseen for the development of tourism outside the golf course, so building hotels, tourist settlements and other areas and that we can say that we still say, at least in Split we failed to restore those hotels we had before the war. So there's been no new construction. Of course, we have always spoken and I am one of those who represented the view that we have to stop the apartmentization of the coast and that is why there has been a regulation in the PDO and the move of the regulation into the law itself, because the first waves of investors were exclusively speculators who came trading land, trading apartments, etc. We're absolutely against it. But for one bad experience, we don't need to close our chances for forwards, both in the construction of different types of tourist accommodation facilities and golf as well as one of the offers. I continue to talk, experience and about swimming pools and tennis courts and about a lot of other things and what will come up. What was also in the debate was the question of the competence of building on golf courses. We need to know that when we talk about golf courses, we need to talk about not sports, but sports in the function of tourism. So we're talking about one tourist content which is important to underline, not just sports. And when we talk about the jurisdiction to build these terrains, then we also have to deal with those elements that form the basis for the golf course to be built. In any case, the basis for the construction of the golf course is spatial planning documentation. So the golf course can't be built where the spatial plan isn't intended. It is an necessity that must be fulfilled. Whether someone will abuse when adopting changes to spatial plans, when adopting new spatial plans, it is a matter of some speculation whether it will be, whether it will be, when the experience is old, but the fact that golf courses can only be built according to spatial planning documentation, and that spatial planning documents contain other urban parameters important for construction. And urban parameters are those that have not been mentioned here at all so far and I am not surprised because they are not subject to the profession of those who participated in the debate. Two key elements for that are both oxygen and K.I.G. Because these two data, these two sizes about K.I.G., and K.I.G. means the total area of the terrain covered by the facilities, and K.I.G. total construction. This regulates the actual amount of construction. Is in this Assembly you can fit a lot more people, a lot less people, and that the size of space doesn't change at all. So these elements regulate what's going to happen. Whether someone is going to abuse or not, if we're going to suspect, fear and seek some elements of security protection, that's another story. But in itself, the law does not allow such abuse, but we do have abuse as an integral part of life. That's the answer to 10% and 25%, etc. I'm the creative approach you'd have. If I were to show up as an investor, and if I was doing something that was elite, then I certainly wouldn't rebuild it because that rebuilding would bring down the value and bring down the price of the squares that would be. So how anyone will approach it depends on what interests they will have. Market price. Discussing the market price is one category that is skating terribly into space because something that is today a question of what tomorrow will be. The quantities of water needed to soak that the terrain are so different technologies that are now used in the world that those figures that have been calculated, that is, in professional circles, very naively and unconditionally debated. Also, the pesticide question. The pesticides are also used for the food we eat. I'm not saying pesticides are good. I prefer to eat cherry with a worm because like no pesticide but no one in the world is crazy about poisoning themselves. Therefore, some outside experiences can also be applied here if they are good. I can't believe people are out there against themselves. Loss of budget. Listen, someone who enters the building of a hotel, who enters the construction of a golf course, who enters the building of an apartment he simultaneously wanting to earn himself a profit he carries himself a huge risk. The question is, what's going to happen to those facilities? What's going to happen to those fields tomorrow? The question is, I didn't risk that money, but I certainly got the money for the communal tax, and from which 180 kuna per meter is a cubic meter and minimum is three meters cubic, one meter square space is charged with it, and that's some income that local units are doing to develop forward. The environmental impact is very important. No golf course can be built without an environmental impact study. And on the other hand, golf courses are a beautiful view. I could show you pictures from all over the world of golf course I've seen... There's a lot more to it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm just afraid that what happened to my colleague Cain is starting to make us miss the story, that cementists have no one to sell cement to, etc. Because it's part of the country's economy and part of the strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22323	Thank you very much. We've got two replications. Dear colleague of Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22324	With respect, Mr. President. Mr. Roshin, I highly appreciate you, you know, we're together on the board, but I wouldn't even report in this late hour for any replica, and I'm still waiting for a debate. But there's a way to react here. You said that this law is not the fruit of any strategy but is primarily the effect of spatial plans that are units of local self-government. ... That's what you said. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] If it wasn't the fruit of some strategy, but that's what the spatial plans said, so I must remind you that it is still the fruit of some strategy, since this programme of golf development as an element of the Croatian tourism development strategy is 99 more. The government adopted and, of course, tasked the Ministry of Tourism for operational implementation of the programme, which has not done anything for ten years, for the purpose of the elections, very important, investors for proven performance and acceptable projects of building a golf course in co-operation with the municipalities and municipalities and cities. Here, I think it is, after all, the fruit of the strategy, not just spatial plans.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22325	Thank you very much. The answer to my colleague Roshin's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22326	Of course, colleague Denona. I don't take your replica on purpose, but it's obviously a misunderstanding, and maybe I wasn't clear enough when I said it. I said that 62 golf courses that are scheduled for space-plan documentation are not the fruit of the strategy that must be 62 or 78 or 15. This figure came up with everything that was in the spatial plans that had been made. And golf as a topic, golf as one of the strategic values of the development of Croatian tourism is certainly part of a general strategy. But number 62. ... I apologize for what, I said in this late hour in the loss of passion for conversation I was not clear enough. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22327	Thank you very much. And the next application is for the replica of my colleague Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22328	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Roshin, you may have misjudged yourself, but you have admitted or claimed that this law has been badly prepared. Why? You say, look, there may be abuses, but we can't now because abuses can not be passed by law. I remind you, a privatisation law was passed in the '90s. The law itself is not bad. Bad is how this law was applied and what it led to. And this law, in it, lies this particular danger that enables abuse and is very likely to occur. And if we wanted to be bad, then we could argue that it might be for those very reasons and bring about these abuses. The quality of a law is measured, among other things, by how much it prevents the abuse of itself, how much it is fenced, how much protection it is in its articles, how elaborate it is. This law has not been worked out, it in just a few articles allows the authority not to be defined at all when, how, from whom, about what, why. It allows units of local self-government to be damaged again in someone's private interest, someone who will invest in golf courses. What happens next to him, how he treats these built-up surfaces, can he sell it further? All this could have been written in the law that he was well prepared. Well, that's the problem with this law. There is no one against golf as sport or golf as a tourist activity. But what is the danger of this law is that it is brought about by someone's private interests and not by improving golf or tourism activities. And when you said he allowed abuse, you admitted he was bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22329	Thank you. The answer to my colleague Roshin's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22330	Here, colleagues, I'll run a replica on his speech. First, he thought I said it and I didn't say it. He has the right to appear to him and not dispute what is being done to him, but I have never said it with a saying, but I have said that there is always the possibility of abuse. Something else, you've given me now a chance and a time to say it, something that I'm young in the Parliament regardless of my age but young in the Parliament, I'm learning what it is, some of the things that seem rude to me in the Assembly are game rules. So, I would talk professionally about any topic and not use it for political speech, although it is the Parliament, but I would use political speech at the moment in political speech, but if I were to talk about something that represents an expert topic then I would only talk about it. So, to me, it's an abuse when someone rises up to talk about a professional subject and actually ends up a political manifesto, you understand. So that's what I thought. That's how I let what I said happen to you, too, but I didn't say it in my own words. ... No, it doesn't end up in that. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22331	Thank you very much. Next up, a distinguished colleague, Branko Boxti, appeared for discussion. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22332	I thank you, Mr. Vice President, given that my colleague Verbat said something that has nothing to do with reality, the truth. Behind that went "cha" as you can see, right. In his debate, a mustache of pears and apples. Here is a modest experience in the local self-government that lasts for 14 years that units of local self-government bring space-planning documentation and based and spatial planning documents make plans for what will be done in a given space. But it means it's not a matter of space-planned documentation, it's a matter of investor's party colors. But regardless, I will say something first about the history of golf in the Republic of Croatia. Golf is a sports and recreation game that takes place in nature and whose specific features are the design of a playground with landscape structures. It was created in Scotland in the 14th century on natural grasslands by the sea, and the first human-shaped playgrounds appeared in the 18th century. The exceptional popularity of golf can thank the basic elements of the game such as: competitive features, strategy, quick decision-making and exercise. It is interesting to mention that golf rules have been unchanged for centuries, which gives the game a romantic and traditional tone. The history of golf in the Republic of Croatia dates back to World War II when golf was played at three locations. On the island of Veli Brijun, in Zagreb and in Ičići between Opatija and Lovran. Unfortunately, from the end of the '30s to the early '90s, golf was totally dead. At the beginning of the 90s, a group of enthusiasts restarted golf in Croatia. Golf began to play on Brijuni in our neighborhoods in the half of the 19th century. The Brijuni Islands was bought by Austrian industrialist Paul Cooperweiser and turned them into a tourist mecca. During the first half of the 20th century, numerous sports facilities are offered in Brijuni, such as water sports, crickets, tennis, horseback riding, and golf has been included since 1922. This year, a golf course with 18 fields was completed. According to the press, it was one of the most beautiful golf courses in Europe. It is not hard to believe when the natural beauty of that landscape is considered. The first official tournament was held next year. The appearance of the playground is not known much but there is evidence that in the early 30s the length of the playground was 4000 450 yards. According to some sources, the first attempt to start a golf club in Zagreb was in 1925, but there are documents according to which the City Department then refused to give consent to the establishment of the club. The re-launching of the club was successfully conducted in 1929 and the founders of the Zagreb Golf Club were the most visible persons of the then Zagreb led by Count Miroslav Kulmer. The founder of the club was also the Esplanada Hotel in which the club headquarters was located. In 1931, the club had 80 members, and already in 1932 the club numbers about 102 members. The number of members for the then Zagreb was indeed respectable. By the beginning of 1931, a 9-field playground was built. The playground is solemnly opened on June 12th 1931 with the presence of many dignitaries. In Ičići, a coastal place halfway between Opatija and Lovran on the terrace slopes of Učka in May 1930 is an open golf course. It was built on the land of the Tomasic family... And what was most characteristic of this playground were beautiful and unforgettable views that shot at Kvarner from each of the 9 fields. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The warm climate and way of building allowed the game throughout the year, which was mentioned with beautiful views as the greatest grace of this golf course that was advertised as golf in the mountains on the coast of the sea. The playground was used, this is information for Mr. Caine even though he wasn't here, so the playground was used until 1943 to capitulate Italy when German military forces came to the area. In two key places, concrete bunkers were built on the playground, and the devastation of the playground began. After World War II, no less was founded than a nursery. And later, the spaces are used as a camp to this day. The golf course in Croatia starts only in the last decade of the 20th century after a long break. Despite the war, groups of enthusiasts are launching the establishment of several clubs in Zagreb and Sinj. In addition to the 200x300m swagger, members of the Bundek Golf Club organize the first exercise site. The second group of enthusiasts organizes a practice area between Horvacan road and the Faculty of Kinesiology. The Croatian Golf Federation was founded in June 1992. All 3 months later, the Croatian Golf Federation was admitted to the European Golf Association and a few years later a professional golf association was registered. Today, more than 60 million are playing golf in the world, and more than 7 million in Europe. Golf and golf tourism are in a strong trend of growth as more and more middle and younger people turn to golf as an ideal form of individual and family sports recreation and rest. New generations of golfers are mostly well-sighted family people who spend significantly more on golf and golf tourism than on average tourists. Western Mediterranean countries have an average of 6 golf courses per million arrivals of tourists. Example Portugal 6, Spain 5, France 7, Italy 6. In Croatia, the number is 20 times smaller which speaks eloquently about the size of our untapped potential for the development of golf tourism. Research shows that every other golfer goes on vacation, and every third one goes every year. Croatia as a potential golf destination in its nearer environment such as Slovenia, Italy and Austria because of the concept, which due to winter has no real competition. In addition to Western Mediterranean countries, Turkey has expanded as a new golf destination in the eastern Mediterranean. There are currently two 18-hole golf courses in Croatia and one 9-hole exercise area that certainly does not meet the needs of our tourist offer by number or quality. The visions of golf prosperity and its contribution are linked to economic development, environmental protection, social improvement and the concept of sustainability in golf. In order to recognise what is needed for the development of golf and a given social environment, it is necessary to take account of integrated management of the environment, economic development and human well-being. Not just in today's time frames, but for future generations. Golf is certainly the most healthy sport that young and old people can play without age. A large number of playgrounds, their availability and sometimes integration into the school system affect its popularity and acceptability. Golf has turned from individual sports to a family sport that all members enjoy equally. Golf can be a good investment in health and although it may not belong to the category of most energetic sports or high-intensity sports, but according to new research it can have a very positive impact on your health and even enable you to live a long life. The aim of researchers from Sweden was one of the largest European medical institutes to study the health status of 300,000 golfers, and announced that the incidence of deaths in them was 40% lower than in people of the same age, gender and socioeconomic situation. In other words, golf allowed them another five years to live. Professor Alba, the leader of the research team, explains this phenomenon by the fact that there are several segments in golf that have a positive impact on health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22333	Thank you. One correction to the incorrect allegations, Mr. Zdenko Franić. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22334	I'm correcting the incorrect assumption that golf is the healthiest sport. Not that it is a healthy sport, and the healthiest thing is swimming, which can be proved by medical statistics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22335	Preference And white. [[Intruder: I white.]] Three replicas. First Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22336	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, I listened carefully to Mr. Box. He described a part of the history and the city of Zagreb, etc. He mentioned the word enthusiasm a few times. Three, four times here says Mr. Shmrem. The fact is that they were enthusiasts at one point in the 1990s who started this sport in both Zagreb and the Golf Federation, etc. But at one point, these enthusiasts realized it was a really lucrative business, and they went from enthusiasm to business. They got very cheap land near Zagreb, they developed work, they built houses, they sold houses. Unfortunately, they shouldn't have done that. The inspectorate has work to do there, and now they're waiting for the law to be passed and it's finally legalized and that I can sell peacefully what they imagine. So it doesn't take an excuse for us to have someone enthusiastically aided and fellow tourism department colleagues. Enthusiasts may have helped you write this law. But primarily from his own personal interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22337	Replicate response, Mr. Representative Branko Box.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22338	My colleague Maras, as far as I know in the government in Zagreb, is SDP. Therefore, both scissors and skirt are in the hands of Mr Bandic, or SDP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22339	Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22340	I have to admit to my colleague Box that I didn't realize the need for this education on the history of golf that took up most of your exposure, but since you've already taken it upon yourselves, it should have been a little more specific. Namely, you see on the Great Brijuni there is no Cooper Weiser like you said made a golf course. It's an Austrian tycoon. His name was Cooper Weiser, and there's a big difference between Cooper Weiser and those who will build under this law is that he's golf course, golf course made on his land he bought for his money, and he didn't get it by empowering anyone, but he bought his land, for his money from the Italian Counts, and then he made a golf course on it. And so you don't get embarrassed in the future when you talk about it, the man's name is Cooper Weiser.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22341	Replicate response, Mr. Representative Branko Box.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22342	Thank you. I didn't know I was embarrassed. Thanks for the suggestions. I said, "Second time, fellow Trainer, listen carefully." I said he bought the islands, not that he built it. Behind the fact that a playground was built, and I didn't say who built it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22343	And Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22344	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I have to say, with interest, I've been listening to this little golf history lesson, it was convenient to listen. But somehow I felt like it on one side a little go of golf and what golf used to mean and what it might mean, even when it comes to recreation, human health, sports, etc. But also the golf you tried to tell us about it doesn't seem to me to have to build any hotel suites or I don't know what capacity on the golf course itself, because then it becomes something that's very, very elite. In addition, very, very narrow circle of citizens is available. And what is worst in this law is that law does not suit and invites citizens to participate as much as possible and that family even go golfing. This law was designed exclusively to provide benefits to a series of investors who will build on golf courses along the way and accommodation facilities, and then these capacities will be sold, and then these apartments, apartments or I don't know what to enroll as private property and not all of it on land that he bought honestly, but on what he received by virtue, a gift from the Croatian Democratic Community.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22345	Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22346	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. I want to believe that during this debate my amendment will arrive which is very short, understandable and simple. I suggest we declare the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia a golf course. It seems to me that this would solve all these recommendations that we have here and I must express my first satisfaction that you are here, Mr. Minister, all the time in presenting this law, because you rarely appear in public. After 11 months here we have the honor and opportunity to hear your thoughts on a part of tourism. You were in public recently, but because of some cabinet, but not the law. I've heard here today that golf means only to gentlemen, ladies forbidden. So, we're discussing God's part of tourism for gentlemen. And really watching foreign television programs rarely when I saw women playing golf, but good. Perhaps fellow MPs are so active today in discussing this law. All of us, when we object to this bill of law, have been declared an enemy of golf. I really don't mind that every year a million people from the world come to Croatia and drive that white ball and make it into 19 or how many holes on that golf course does anyone know? 19, 18. Well, if they want to, they can do more and less. Let's say those from Bosnia can go to 22. So it's not a problem in golf. It is not a problem whether golf wants to enrich Croatia's tourist offer or not, but under what conditions you offer. I'd say this law is a result of blackmail. Someone was blackmailing someone. I can't understand, Mr. Minister, that you're suggesting that a golf course of 85 hectares of agricultural land that is being re-scheduled by investors should not pay for any kind of re-use. But if an entrepreneur from Croatia or Hungary or Russia on that same ground wants to build a production hall in which they will employ 100 workers, he will have to pay for the re-use of agricultural construction land. If your fellow minister from your party has suggested too high amounts of re-use, then make sure that the price of re-use is not 25% in the current borders of the settlement, 50 or even 100% on P1 and P2 land, but you suggest that for the golf course is half of it, if not full price. But not without any change of purpose, because that land will never be agricultural land again, you're aware of that. Second, they're building a golf course without water compensation, a water contribution. If you build a parking lot, you pay a water contribution, if the school builds a handball playground for students, pays a water contribution. If you're building a sports hall, you pay a water contribution, but for a golf course you don't have to pay a water contribution. What do they soak golf courses with? Is this water imported from New Zealand to water the grass so beautifully cut and green? It's too expensive water from the water supply, it's gonna use its water supply, it's gonna pay for that concession. But for God's sake, that water is the property of the Republic of Croatia, of all citizens. Water contribution is not to be paid. Release her from paying even the electricity connection fee, or for gas, or roads, they don't have to pay. All states will build free, only to invest a few tens of thousands of euros to build a playground, a golf course. So try to understand what I'm talking about. The conditions offered are the result of blackmailing lobbys who realize that we are in crisis, that we have a problem with their tourism and are trying to blackmail us into giving them a golf course. Extortion of private owners over parcels. It is more important under this law to build golf courses than highways, hospitals, schools and anything else because the procedures and priorities that were in the law are such that the price of extradition will be less than for highways, the procedure three times simpler without the power to end and the process. Do you really believe that a dozen golf courses that, objectively in the next ten years in Croatia can be built will be made from tourism so much that they will make up for everything that is going to be less in the state budget. That on that same land someone who deals with tourism wants to have a riding school, donkeys, horses, mules and mules, will pay both water contribution and land re-use and all charges for the connection, and will wait 15 times longer for permits than those who build golf courses. A local self-government unit without a competition has to sell the country. If we're building a hospital on a private plot, what's the solution there? A state country without a competition has to go to the golf course. So as far as I know, the Republic of Croatia owns a million and 100 thousand hectares of agricultural land. A million and 100 grand. So let them build these golf courses on state land. Don't take people's land by exorcism. Well, I guess there's enough of that land. The municipalities have identified everything, as your colleague Minister Pankretic wrote, 532 thousand hectares of millions and 100,000 hectares of state land. So somewhere else there's another 450 acres of state land nobody knows where it is. So let's have them build those golf courses over there. Is it possible to consider it justified to introduce a law on expropriation of private property by declaring it a national interest more important than a hospital, a school, a hall, a golf course. Until the '80s. The years of the social elite could have been the one who was a hunter. And everyone who was supposed to be elite had to be hunters. And then behind that, everyone had to be a tennis player. Now we must all become golfers to be members of the Croatian social elite. I really can't believe it. I'm not against having golf courses in Croatia. I'm not against foreigners coming, investing and building golf courses, but not in a way that we can take off their underpants to give them land, water and location for free, and that the profits they will make will be exclusively theirs because their companies will have registrations in Tel Aviv, London, Paris, on crocodile and monkey islands, not in Croatia. That's the problem. You will not recover tourism from golf courses. Not under these conditions, you offer too much. There's time. Think again. It's thousands of acres of agricultural land that is then grants. And you know very well at these 5,276 acres as much as you might grow some other culture that makes more profit than that golf. Make the same conditions or 20% bonuses from those related to other tourism branches and there will be no such problem. This law has to be followed by an emergency procedure. Why? What, they start building 62 golf courses in January? Why is it an emergency procedure? The spatial plans reportedly predict 62 playgrounds. The tourist season for next year is over, you know it best, and if there are no golf courses in our offer next year, it's too late. So we have time for 2010 to discuss golf as an additional tourist offer in Croatia. Only you are on the move, accept the third reading of this law for both the owner of parcels and justice in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22347	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote, Mr. Agent Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22348	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would correct the inaccuracies of my fellow Lesar when he turned to me just before and commented that we in Bosnia could play on how many holes. So the incorrect assumption is that we are from Bosnia, because Bosnia and Herzegovina is an official state and call my country a full name and that is unacceptable. On the other hand, proof that golf can be a very dangerous sport is also this a little before, because he just fired a ball at me, and I have the impression that it came the way he said it from the Stone Age. But I would invite him since my house has a 10km, there's a very nice golf course in Posuje to come if he doesn't have a chance in Croatia, because they allow him to play golf here, so he can come and play a game of golf. Here's all my support for golf courses.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22349	Supposedly a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22350	Mr. Vice President isn't supposed to. I didn't mention anyone's name in my debate. I didn't look at anyone. I didn't even notice he was in the hall. So I don't even know what he's talking about. I'm just saying that from Bosnia maybe golfers play 22 holes, nothing more. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22351	The poet's beauty in the corrections of incorrect allegations should be held back a little. Replica, Mr. Representative Boris Sprem.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22352	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Lesar, I'm surprised you're telling me that investors who intend to build golf courses don't have to pay water contribution, municipal contribution, then compensation for re-use of agricultural land into this building land. Because look, the special social caste that this law nominated to me in the discussion and explain very specifically by the articles doesn't pay for that stuff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22353	Replicate response, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22354	I find it clear to me that you are surprised to me that many people wonder when I talk about these laws that come about privileged caste and investor in Croatia who every six months change depending on how much they want it, how much travel to Brussels and how they come back from Brussels so that sometimes I have to admit myself hard to understand when I read these laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22355	Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22356	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In your discussion, you tried to show government representatives, to prove who must pay all sorts of contributions to both the local community and the state when it comes to what you said about building roads, schools, hospitals, this or that, and in some ways you asked them to try to understand what we are actually saying to them through our discussions. But I am afraid that neither the representatives of the government nor those who will raise their hands for this law can understand that. Namely, this law is an example of insolence at the very least. Where, on behalf of the Government, the representatives of the Government are trying to convince us all here that the private interest, the interest of the individual, but the interest of one party is actually a national interest and that we should all raise our hands for this law that goes according to the urgent procedure. I'd say it doesn't happen so often, but this proposal for a golf law, Mr. Secretary and Secretary of State, is an example of exactly that law. You put the private interests of individuals, their capital above the interests of the state, and even more so, you're trying to convince us that it's the interest of the state and the interest of the citizens. Unfortunately, you obviously can't understand it, either, but it looks like not even a colleague of Lesar can help you with that, but unfortunately we're all going to have to pay for it eventually.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22357	Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22358	Comrade Sobol, I am an irreparable optimist for you, and I really want to believe that the arguments that we are making here not only tonight, but also tomorrow about the budget will come to mind sooner or later and break the heart of the resistance that always comes from these benches where the representatives of the government are sitting so far. I'm staying trust me on the optimist, because if I hadn't gone home to my orchard further... pears, but I still believe it's possible to do something for this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22359	And Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22360	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I share my fellow Lesar optimism, but I don't want to talk about it because I've called before. So I particularly liked his finding that everyone used to be hunting, then tennis, and now golf and I think it goes in that direction and that a kind of golf course will spread to all Croatian citizens soon, except instead of the bat, we have bananas, and instead of holes in the golf course holes on the belt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22361	Answer, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22362	Now let's put the belts and the holes on the belts and the holes on the belt. Some will play, in fact most Croats will play mini golf, but if these reforms pass which are announced, the largest number of Croats will play pocket golf.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22363	Swiss cheese. Mr. Representative Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22364	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. After this long debate over a law that has only 16 articles in its entirety, one wonders why we are even discussing something that has 16 articles, so long and so in some way in the way that it is understood on this side or on the side of the promoter, that it is then part of the opposition golfers. I'll try here reading these 16 articles, not everyone, and regarding my debate about those three bad or no laws, the tourist law that we had earlier, try to say that we are against the law, not against golf. Because if, I always look into the law how much it costs us all, so here we go. The claim that the implementation of this law does not require funding from the state budget, given that the possible costs of building infrastructure for the purposes of building a golf course will, as appropriate, be covered by the resources foreseen by the state budget for that purpose at the position of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure which is responsible for the construction of the infrastructure. Try telling me what the poet wanted to say with this interpretation of the law. You won't need money special from the state budget, you won't need money, but because there will be money in, the government budget for that purpose in the Ministry of the Sea, so that the Ministry of the Sea is not... the budget, rather than the budget of another country, rather than the countries of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And when we go into law writing with one such claim, then of course this law can't be good, and that law deserves to be returned to another reading, and then there's something more than 16 articles, to be more operational and to be what the real law should be and what the real law should look like. They can also agree with the fact that creating a framework of this legislation would allow for a more accessible and faster construction of the golf course and that Croatian tourism could thus compensate for the backdrop in this area, because if we do not do so, we would miss opportunities among others for channeling significant possible revenues of golf tourism. In the law and in the light of this law, there is no z, let alone little, we do not know what incomes they are, possible incomes in golf tourism, without saying what employment is possible if we go in such a way to build a golf course, and in the sense that the tourist season is kind of extended. I would also agree with the interpretation that the solution to the chronic problem of sensonicity is especially in the coastal area, golfers can fill the currently poorly filled existing quality hotel facilities outside the main tourist season and contribute to significant growth outside of pension consumption. I agree, but then in Article 2, write it down. Write that down. If you claim that we will have in the post-season full of hotels that are now empty, write it down in Article 2 and let it remain a golf course with the corresponding infrastructure, in further text golf course, golf course, club house, parking, service buildings and stand on it. No buildings intended for accommodation, place a hotel. Obviously, you've calculated that the hotel's empty capacity will also be filled with golfers. Then write it in Article 2 and write it, not that it stands for the accommodation of the building which, of course, we all know, will be apartments that will eventually be able to be sold and sold. Also in Article 1 you should go straight ahead and say that the construction of the golf course is of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia including the detachment of forests and forest land from the forest economic base for the construction of a quality Mediterranean and European golf destination. You claim in this article 1 paragraph 2 that we also go to the deforestation of forests and forest land. But that's why in Article 12 of the same law, you say that property relations on land owned by the Republic of Croatia and legal persons that are owned or established by it, that I do not now list, are, as a rule, resolved by establishing the rights of citizens and the right of service. Now we either single them out or we have the right to build and serve or what? There can't be a mouse and a cat without something being whole. Obviously, the law, I'm talking about the quality of the law which is extremely bad and which, of course, allows, and what my colleague Roshin said, is concerned that it will all be expensive illegal and that speculation is possible. And try to tell me, another one, maybe I'm not an expert, so here's my colleague Roshin. No, he's gone. When we talk and talk a lot about the 25% construction of the total floor area on which the construction of the golf course is planned, and then in Article 4, you say if this law, which is not this law, the rules on spatial planning and construction apply to the construction of the golf course. As far as memory serves me, the Construction Act says that something treated as a building area, construction, as a building surface, can be the density of construction 10%. So this isn't legal. What you're proposing now is 25% out of line with the law you're also calling for to be applied. It is also inadmissible that the catering tourist buildings in Article 2 as I said in addition to the hotel, then we only build hotels, so that we don't think it's some kind of big thief, if you're getting ready for someone, can be established on condition that they can't change the spatial purpose of these buildings. Please, once it's recorded, of course I'll buy it, me or someone else, and make sure it's mine. In fact, even as the owner of a special part of it, I will entrust this to my management of the golf course investor, so that he will buy some Luka Denolo who will then be the guardian of the beaches in the winter period and keep it in the night and in the dark for my private property. Also, I'd like to point out. Says colleague Lesar that's why an emergency procedure. There's something we're trying to figure out why an emergency procedure is going on here. Well, very clearly, colleague Lesar, why it's an emergency procedure. Obviously, and this is written by the legislator, there are particularly justified state reasons, because the adoption of this law depends on the continuation of the construction of a golf course on state land. In fact, the adoption of this law depends on the end of several start-up investments for which the realisation was established and the consortium. So it would be nice, at least in the light of the law, to say who these people are, who they are, five, six, how many there are, at least we know who we're giving this state importance and state priority to. And finally. Is that gonna be why an emergency procedure? I don't know, I'm not a lawyer. Here you go, Mr. Shakespeare. You are telling me, Article 15 states the provisions of Article 10 that the Act of Execution shall apply at the request of the party, and which is waiting here for the order, which has a picture of the Ministry, must have a picture of it and in the procedures of the exemption which have been initiated before the entry into force of this law, if a decision on the authorisation has not yet been reached. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think it's kind of illegal. If it's not too small, I'll say it's strong. And at the end of the 16-point bill, please bring it back and finish it and Article 13. So you don't know how to write the law, and then what needs to be done needs to be done by someone else. The Government of the Republic of Croatia shall adopt a regulation governing minimum standards, content, conditions for golf courses in accordance with the guidelines set out in Article 3(1) of this Act, measures, criteria, holders, method of determination, market prices, right to construction, deadlines, procedure, control method and other important issues relating to the implementation of the country's construction and economic use of the golf course, and legal persons owned or established by the Republic of Croatia. Is it too much to say what the quality of this law is, when the government will pass a regulation that will try everything we've said today with this regulation not regulated by law. I think it's tragic that you put 16 members of the law under our noses like this, a law that doesn't hold water, and then a government regulation will solve something, again beyond this Parliament, beyond the knowledge of the public. Which regulation will see the light of day for probably those five, six already now as you claim by this law, potential investors who are just waiting for us to raise our hand and then they're going to build golf courses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22365	Thank you. Three replicas. Mr. Representative Vlatko Podnar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22366	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague... Noticed now this really is not clear whether forests and forest land are exempt or paid for by rent, or compensation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's really not clear from this law. I'm exempting. But there may be something else here in Article 9 that you did not notice, that is, what can be concluded by the article when interpreting Article 9. The investor may provide 17 hectares of land next to the forest and forest land and request the corresponding item 3. say the restriction, because when it comes to exemption, the area limit referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall not be included in the areas of forest or forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia. Now, 62 or 60-ac golf courses, times 67 hectares, that's about 4 thousand acres of forest and forest land can be re-purposed, or put under another function, rather than under the forest. Therefore, it is really not clear that this article, under no circumstances, is it only 25% of the forest, or that they are entering the building, and that some compensation is paid, but under this law is not paid and that this is a compensation for true service and on which surface. Is it 60, 51, how much does minus 25% of what the area is? Therefore, the law is obviously inconclusive and a little bit like this in my court may have at least 18 articles when there are 18 holes, right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22367	Replicate response, Mr. Representative Luke Denon.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22368	Thank you very much. Well esteemed colleague, I'm just reading article 31. The Governments of the Republic of Croatia will adopt a regulation which will then make all these misunderstandings I would say which law, I will not say a word as to how it was proposed to us as being thrown just like that, it is incontinent to say what I thought. So, the government will solve everything we talked about today, the law shouldn't be. The law should have been a state interest that there are five investors who have stopped building golf courses, we have their picture, they have blackmailed us, the point and the government will make rules as they will get land. Nothing else. This should have been written, not that we are wasting time here and reading a bad law that will not be in favour of Croatian citizens, although it is under the state's interest, which is of course not only a state, but primarily a private interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22369	Mr. Zdenko Franić, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22370	Dear Mr. Vice President and dear colleague Denon. Once you've done this beautifully, I can only say that it's absurdly perverse and surreal in these relatively late evenings to talk about an insolent and poor law that legalizes kidnapping, which is portrayed as a national interest, which actually suits a few quasi investors, some of whom are still under criminal investigation. So then they're waiting for the law to be passed, probably to put an end to all this and get their activities legalized. I wonder if these investors are small or large entrepreneurs in terms of this law, which we will also discuss in the late evenings. It's the State Support Act for Education and Education, because then these investors might also be able to apply for state support, let's say, to school those caddies that wear golf clubs and balls and then add state incentives. The state would be simpler and not torture the public and our representatives if they directly requested the gyro accounts of these people, so we paid them money, everything would be fine and we wouldn't have any damage related to the reuse of agricultural land, use of water and other environmental and economic problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22371	Next replica, Mr. Representative Rajko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22372	I'm surprised to you that you didn't recognize in this law his consistency when he even referred to the government how this gift package should be completed. That means if it's a gift, then it's exactly prescribed within what time limit it means in 30 days, that job needs to be completed. It should be put out of force and those other laws that are in other countries called lex specialis that regulate how something is sold and at what prices, here a warrant is given that Valda will solve it. Contrary to the legal decisions that it should otherwise be as the law has established a way of determining the market price, but when it comes to golfers, then there is a special treatment for them. And secondly, I must also say to my colleagues, regarding this discussion of yours, that I am surprised that he does not recognize the same thing when everything is beautifully written in Article 12 that the forest will not have to be paid. Brother dear, I suppose you understand that this is a gift, that you do not recognize health. I'm surprised to both of you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22373	The poets are a wonder in the world there's another category now. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22374	The golf course has 18 holes, this law much more. There's a lot of strangers here, but there's one thing that's familiar. Why and for whom this law is proposed. This isn't the golf law, this isn't the golf course law. This is a law on how to take the general state, how to take ownership of local self-government units, how to take someone's private property and put it exactly to a specific person in... I thought HDZ was smart after the privatisation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not. This is worse than privatisation. Look out, you have experience in privatisation. You insist on re-possessing and putting the general good into private hands. Why is this law proposed in an emergency procedure, in a single reading? Well, that's quite clear, so we don't have to discuss this twice. Why is it being discussed now, and it's quite clear. To get as little out of the debate about this law as possible, to get as little out of this assembly as possible. In order to make in this intention a completely uncovered robbery, one completely unobstructed guessing as little as possible. Look, the very fact that the government has proposed this law should be enough for Mr. Bajic to invite you to talk, you and those who agree with such a bill so as to determine how many commissions there are. Because to propose here to the Croatian Parliament, to the Croatian public, that the forests of Croatia be taken away from the state and given to a private without any compensation for re-use, that the private country may be taken away as if the highway was built because someone could make enormous profits. My colleagues to Zubovic, he's not here. If the right to not know or not to know, Article 3(2) says that the density of construction will be up to 25% of the total floor area on which the construction of the golf course is planned, the total floor area may be determined to be at least 85 hectares. So there's going to be a big percentage of construction here, a lot of hectares going to be built here. It will be obtained by seizing, kidnapping, a gift from the state, a gift from the government, and then an attractive golf course will make apartments on a donated land, and then it will be expensively sold, and there will be enormous profits on this one, enormous. You, Mr. Minister, are proposing that someone make a one-of-a-kind profit on a state land, and you're still justifying it with a state interest, in which there is a special cynicism of the bill's proposal. Oh, come on, it's a state interest, and it's an emergency. Croatian tourism is failing if we don't discuss this today and we don't vote on Friday. It all goes to hell. And you think someone will believe you. You're asking for someone to trust you. Listen, this can't justify anything. I can understand that the government is writing a bad law because it doesn't know how to write a better one, so I can figure it out, so we're fixing it here, but your intention to please someone, I can't even understand or justify it. The intention of general good, such as the Croatian forests, is to give a private person the intention of legalizing the abduction of someone's private country, and I can't understand that. How much can you kidnap that? It says you can own 20% of the total floor area. She's 85 acres, 20% is 17 acres. That's 17,000 square meters, 170 thousand square meters, you're suggesting that someone be kidnapped by law. It'll be legal, over. It's a new generation of Croatian tycoons. ... I wonder those who earn here, Mr. Vice President, and who will raise their hands for this, how much commission is promised to them when they are already getting it, obviously they care very much, so they break even the Rules of Procedure without you warning them. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] 30% of the total area can be taken away by units of local self-government, of 85 hectares that is 25 hectares, 250 thousand square meters of municipalities, cities and counties for each golf course, 250 thousand square meters again in private pockets. It's a municipal land, so it's the property of the citizens of this country. So why would they give it to someone? So where's the national interest? It can only be of private interest, of course, to those who will get those fields but also the private interest of those who allow them to get them free of charge. I don't know how you're gonna make this public. I don't even know what's going to come out of this debate tomorrow. I don't actually know how to sensitize the public that this isn't allowed. But being a silent witness to a law-based robbery is frustrating and it requires a reaction. And it requires a reaction not only here in Parliament at 20.55. Citizens need to know what you're preparing for them. Citizens must know that you are about to create a second generation tycoon on their property and on the property of this state and units of local self-government. This is the most embarrassing bill I've seen since my term here. I'm in third term. Something like this hasn't come up yet. There were bad, better laws. There were all kinds of people. But the intention of the robbery is written in one law, so we haven't seen it yet. But that's what we had to experience.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22375	... Stazic is somewhat unusual that the legislator and the government of the assembly speaker are being accused of criminal intent, for the purpose of the robbery. ... [[The speaker was subsequently turned on.]] the intervention of a state's attorney. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is therefore suggested that also the legislator, the minister and the government, are that, for criminal purposes, it is a deviation from the usual rules of this home. You accused one of the parties right from the start. You accused HDZ. Charged and convicted of criminal intent. It's offensive behavior. It's offensive behavior and it's not consistent with the behavior of a representative. That's why I give you a warning. That's too much. It can be criticized most strongly, but with these positions, you then challenge and throw out MPs, and then you warn me that I should silence them, and that's how you create an atmosphere in which, with an accusation made, with a sentence given to a stranger and a government of crime, it's not right to rob. There is no reaction to the application of the disciplinary measure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22376	Can I at least thank you, Mr. Vice President?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22377	It shouldn't because it doesn't comply with the Rules of Procedure. Thanks aren't meant to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22378	Then I'm looking for a word on behalf of the SDP Club. Then I'm looking for a word on behalf of the SDP Club. ... [[/Intruder: What?]] Then I ask you to take a 10-minute break on behalf of the SDP Club. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[He's the vice president.]] [[Intruder: Vice President has the right to request]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22379	You see when in one roundabout way How, when you watch, when the chairman gives a warning, then you know very well that there is no answer to that. [[I've raised my hand nicely to answer but you won't let me answer. If you'd let me answer, I wouldn't have asked for a break.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22380	And when the chairman gives a warning, then a representative of the club can ask for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22381	Well, he may be looking but... What do you need a break for? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's what I want to know. ... When a representative of the club is looking for a break, then he needs to explain what reason he's looking for a break. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22382	Let's discuss further work after your warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22383	Okay. Okay. There was another violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Representative Ranko Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22384	Article 208 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure for the purpose of notifying or interrupting the speaker by the President alone. The president is concerned that the speaker is not distracted or prevented in his speech. As the representative, Mr Branko Kutija, interrupted and disrupted Stazic's attacks, Article 214 should apply, in which case a warning to the representative should be made if he or she interferes with the speaker. And if I may, Mr. Vice-President in the Croatian Assembly, the basis of the Constitution cannot be held responsible for the said and the warning can only be given if it demeans or insults the president or other representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22385	And what else is this, and what is this other fellow Ostojić? I'm as liberal as I am, but sometimes it gets past, sometimes it gets Sometimes you cross the line. [[Employer: He has not offended anyone by the MPs.]] And this, look, the truth is that the representative of the box threw it away. But let's be honest, and then every pitching and every reaction should warn us about the MP. I don't do it either way. There is some but be a puritan then in such strict application, strictly and in the Rules of Procedure. So the president can warn you, right? Come on, Mr. Train, let's see, come on. You have a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22386	Mr. Shakespeare, it is not unusual for a representative within his term of office and as part of his immunity that he has here pronounces sentences that sometimes someone doesn't have to like, you, a representative of the government. But I think it's quite unusual, Mr. Shakespeare, for the government to allow itself to propose one legal text, and that's not what I've said yet, and that's why I'm so sharp, which you see, and everyone in their right mind sees that they want to please five or six people. That's unusual. That's never happened before. And I didn't go too far, I didn't go too far when I said that with the intention that the mutilation should be done by Mr. Bajic. Because that's the way, because that's the way. Against it, Prime Minister Sanader also called for us to fight. Against it, not against corruption on the road, but against corruption when it is tied to power, and here it is intended to please someone. Apparently she writes in law. She writes in law. And that's why I don't think I deserve a warning because the MP is here, not only has the right to speak. He has an obligation to speak. He has a duty to protect the interests of those who chose him in this House. And I wasn't chosen by those who were going to buy golf courses. You certainly didn't vote for me. But they voted whose country this law would take away and give the team the ground. So I've only done my duty here and I haven't earned my warning, but I thank you for it, and I'm proud to receive it. I'm proud that means I've done my job as a representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22387	It is one thing to give a critical observation of the favoring of certain solutions in the bill and the other to consolidate and criminalise one political party. What was the reason that you went immediately to criminalise the Croatian Democratic Community? Only you know that. Or that it's said to be a robbery, to prepare a robbery and call for the state's attorney's intervention. It's a little graduation yet too. [[I'll tell you what else.]] And that's not a little common in the Parliament to discuss it that way. You're proud of the warning, the proud bearer of caution. Okay. What? Mr. Representative Boris Sprem. What? The replica was for you. Yeah, yeah, right. You're right. Mr. Representative Maras, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22388	Thank you very much. I see that in the enthusiasm of a little discussion with my colleague, Stazic, you've distracted my mind that I've lifted the tile. Nothing. Mr. Stazic noticed very well, and the ministry's representatives do not hide it either. There are people who have invested and who can't build a golf course for many years because of certain difficulties. Now whether someone blackmails them or doesn't blackmail them is a minor problem. I'd understand if these people could help build a golf course. But why give them the opportunity to resell these 25% of the land tomorrow to someone to earn 2,000 euros per square, and I want an explicit answer now. Is this what happened at the golf course near Zagreb that we read in the paper like a big scandal, is it legal under this law? Will these people be able to sell these houses that they built as golfers' accommodation houses, not for someone's private apartment, but for the accommodation of golfers they built them, and sold them by thousands of euros per square to private persons. They shouldn't have done that by now. But under this law, it allows them to do so. Well, if these people are comfortable with this law, then my colleague Stazic, I'm not surprised by your anger and your revolt, which is why you said this earlier. Because it is not the interest of tourism or golf players or golfers who will come to Croatia, but five, six investors who will earn millions of euros on what you will enable them to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22389	Replicate response, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22390	He doesn't know who you're asking that question to. I can't answer that question for you. It is not a problem, however, counterpart Maras, it is not a problem if the government wants to help make some start-up investment, and private investment ends because it is estimated to be in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. That's not the problem. So we would all support it, rather than the way that investment will end so that another one can rule out so that this one can end his investment. So you make the local self-government unit have to, because the law says they have to sell it. I can't, they have to. So Croatian forests are assigned to them. It's not helping to end a started investment. After all, the one who started the investment had the regulations by which he started. Well, he knew what was waiting for him in those regulations. Well, Croatia wasn't a legally unregulated country when they started investment. No, they started by one rule, and they want to end up under another. Why? I guess they don't have much money. They've gone for more, and the government has made it possible for them with this proposal from counterpart Maras. That's what's embarrassing about this bill. That's what it is, so it doesn't matter which party we're from. Against this, every man who has little conscience, honors civil and representative must be against this. It has to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22391	Mr. Representative Boris Sprem.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22392	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm sure I won't get a warning and it's because I'm trying to point out two things that I hope won't be repeated. First of all, I would say the thesis that I will not say a way of preparing and adopting because now we are in the legislator's phase talking about the bill's intentions, and that is to adopt this law in a very unusual way, in a very convenient way. It is interesting that, in addition to not consulting appropriate associations that would certainly contribute to the preparation of this legislative proposal, there is also the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. What concerns me and what I pointed out on the Legislative Committee because it is important, and that is because this legislative proposal contains some of the solutions that have been particularly discussed here today, which concerns concern state property when it comes to real estate that you do not have and have not obtained the opinion of the competent state attorney's office. Now, in that other context, I am speaking than Mr. Honorable Vice-President of the Seks Assembly said when he gave Mr. Stazic a warning about the role of the state's attorney. I'm talking here about one constructive role of the state's attorney's office in preparing this law. When I asked you, you didn't have the answer to that question. So you didn't get that opinion, and I'm sorry that that opinion isn't there and that's one flaw in the preparation of this law. And as for others, I would say concrete things and another of my claims, which is, but I will document it through concrete allegations in the bill, i.e. through concrete articles of the final bill, which is that this law really suits current and future investors. How? So one. When the bill states: “The adoption of this law depends on the end of several start-ups for which the realization is established and the consortium, which have stalled and there is a real risk of not being realized. The laws are generally passed for future situations in principle. But also what Mr. Stazic said this law can come from some existing situations and legalize them, but it must not be a rule. I'm afraid that's a rule here. Second. Article 11 explicitly states that he was here on several occasions, but no one read this. I have to read it now. Therefore, Article 11. “The Republic of Croatia, units of local and regional (regional) self-government, and legal persons owned by them are obliged at the request of the investor who is the owner of the land at market price to sell without carrying out a public tender part of the land needed to form an unbuilt building particle.” I called the special caste social because that's what you do. They may not be so responsible, but you're more responsible for making it so clear by law. By the way, recently this Croatian Parliament, I raised my hand for it, passed a Law on concessions that solves this issue quite differently. So here you're making an exception to the law, which is not good. The third proof that it is suitable for investors, and I was particularly distracted by this in Article 13(2), please be brief, so pay attention. Says the Government of the Republic of Croatia in every way, be careful, please, in every way, and especially by planning and building infrastructure will support the development of the construction of the golf course. Oh, please nice, in every way. And finally, fourthly, what's very interesting is that the government is a pronoun of both laws, so the Agricultural Land Act, where you're explicit, says that what Mr. Lesar was explaining is drastically, allows an investor for a golf course to be freed from paying compensation for the transfer of agricultural land to building land. And finally, the third thing that I wanted to do, I hope to document here, is that this law is constitutionally-legally controversial in view of Article 15 that Mr Denona reads, so I won't, it's about reverse action and it's especially because in Article 134. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, when the bill determines that certain provisions of the law have a return effect, the legislator is obliged to explain the particularly justified reasons why they impose it. This is not what the legislator did in the case of the Law on Road Safety, and they have a feedback which young people and girls now respond to with fines up to a thousand kunas and it is now in the Constitutional Court. I ask you to take care of this objection because this law will also be found for this in the Constitutional Court. That's why I'm asking you as an agent, I hope you're serious and responsible for considering this legal matter, that that's how you realized that you really respect these significant remarks and that the law goes into third reading, to fix it so that we can even vote on it, but not on this legal text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22393	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22394	You are speaking to your colleague about the provision of Article 15 on the feedback that is called for in the provisions of Article 10, and what does Article 10 say? He says that if the user wants to enter the property immediately, even before the extradition procedure is completed, he will submit a request and will be resolved and when he gets the solution, no execution is delayed. The appeal against that solution does not delay execution. So he's going to get into possession right away and keep doing whatever he wants. So the extradition procedure was initiated, it was initiated by some kind of law. It won't end under that law. Why? Because he's not good for investors. Imagine, you could wait longer, and maybe you could lose... You could get a negative solution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, in order to avoid him getting a negative solution, you are now predicting entry into the property immediately. Now. This is also said to apply at the request of the party. At the request of that investor. If this is not an example of guessing that even in one property-legal relationship a pair of exellance expropriations, and for that must be really justified reasons, building a highway and now someone out there is running around their plot, so they won't turn the highway for it. But here, in order for a privateer to be able to achieve his economic interest, interest in profit, large profits, here is a retroactively proposed application of the rules.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22395	And Mr. Representative Ranko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22396	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, the honorary representatives of the government. '95. In the year, the Ministry of Tourism adopted golf as an element of the Croatian tourism strategy, '99. The government has confirmed for the purpose of precisely choosing investors, I quote: "which have been proven to be able to carry out acceptable projects on the construction of the golf course." Obviously, today we have a law that needs to be saved by those who have been proven to be able to make acceptable projects, and apparently they no longer have conditions to meet them today and that they feel that they could get a lot more out than was agreed and done at the time. Then it was done through consortiums, so through cooperation county and cities, and today we got this embarrassing solution which should actually solve the problem exactly which so far, means in the last 10 or 14 years they haven't been able to realize something in the country where when we saw in the explanation it says that everything is ideal for golf, that we have the most favourable conditions, that it's actually a jag that will actually build a golf course, just that it doesn't go to us. And only with us should we do it under privileged conditions that I repeat, and later I'll explain how, in fact, there's a new feeding of state property going on. I first have to agree to this law where and in reason it is actually given how the state administration works, that is, what the system of obtaining permits or the system of exemption for those who are not privileged golfers looks like. As in the case of a Split hospital in Split, it is not possible to rule the road for the sake of it, and I will now quote it: "Because the procedure in this country is of long-term interest, the previous opinion of the County Assembly, the previous opinion of the two committees of the Croatian Parliament, the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, is needed in the "National Journal".", normally it belongs to those who build hospitals, to those who build roads, to those who do something that is normally not of the state interest, but when it comes to golf, then we will pass a special law and none of this will apply to them absolutely. It is not called privilege only in Croatia. What's important, I repeat, is genius conditions, and interestingly, our investors don't recognize it. It's strange to me that this ministry of tourism, in fact, since we're a paradise on earth, can't get the same golfers that each other writes here in an explanation, is among other things the one who uses and tourist destinations. I think we here have to prove again that we are a desirable destination, but this time not for tourism, but as usual and as... , and that is that this country is a very favourable destination for those who apply the formula to a cheap state through an expensive sale that it is a win-win combination. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's what you see here in this law, and the arguments are particularly fascinating about this law. That means the lie is complete that you won't go funding for this law, that's first. Secondly, it's not just about hitting the state, in the woods, in what's generally good, it's about hitting people and normal people with private land without any problems. And what concerned me most was that when I listened to a colleague of Jerko Roshin who is an exceptional expert in spatial planning, he said that it was possible that abuses might happen. That's right. He really did not say that such a situation would happen. But other countries do it in a way to protect themselves with concessions, not in a way that we actually, in his own words, have been particularly concerned, we tomorrow risk that those who receive this gift tomorrow, but literally tomorrow after the accelerated process, can forget golfing, tell us it's not worth it or in Croatia we don't do it and then they sell their 18 thousand square meters of apartments or other hotel facilities or do something else with them. It's protected by concessions, and I'm sure other countries do it unlike us. What is very important to me, the basic obstacle that this law is trying to amend, I think, is the market price, and this is seen in Article 13 in which the Government will determine the way in which the market price will be determined. The Property Act and other real rights are very precise, and I am also saying this about Article 11 of this proposed law, which is that there is no sale without a public tender of property of units of local administration and self-government. Okay. Here we answer golfers are famous, they have their own plan, the government gave them a salary and proved that interest that they would do it there. However, the Property Act and other real rights have very precise way of determining that price, and this is the first time that we are in a position to do so under special rules and allow me to express my doubts, on special occasions, for our golfers. Maybe I'm one of the ones who doesn't recognize that it's health, that it's love for the family, that it's so good, I'm actually surprised why we won't give extra donations, subsidies for a project like this. Is that not enough in this law? That is what I am concerned about in these solutions, which I quote from here, that they are simple and precise. They are very simple and precise to resolve dissatisfied consortiums, or all those who have participated in this story around the golf course so far. In laws settled for the rest of our citizens and normal when there is a situation when you own nine tenths only then you have the right to force whoever owns one tenth to become and unite your property. The situation here is very different. And even if you get a good schedule, if you have a little idea so that you go to the woods and state land and a little bit of community land and leave those 20% to end up expropriating private, you'll solve all your squares without any problems, and you've started with very small or with no squares at all. As for the establishment of the right of construction and service in Article 12, it is also obvious that it is not intended to be paid but intended to be obtained. I will end up having to mention this article 13th pardon 15th about retroactivity. This is a serious precedent in which again in the Croatian Parliament this way tries to drag something that is contrary to all the rules of law. There must indeed be serious reasons, and this golf course or the threat of business projects of failed consortiums, are not to prescribe in the Croatian Parliament retroactiveness and to start to be used backwards for what they have done. And let me get this straight. In my opinion, this is definitely an example of guessing now I'm not going to talk about interest groups anymore because we can call them, and that's this golf caste. Also a new example of taking possession of assets and yet they are part of the interests that are trying to appear as our state. I have no intention of giving a salary and now it's much clearer to me why the Ministry of Tourism is sending the mob on a trip to Mokrice for study trips, and I have police protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22397	Thank you. Four replicas. First, Mr. Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22398	You tell your colleague I'll be able to get rid of it with concessions. Well, it's not. If concessions had been resolved, then this intention that this law carries with it could not have been achieved. Then you couldn't protect someone's private interests. Then you wouldn't be able to please anyone. But building a golf course, encouraging tourism is not the intention of this legal proposal. Encouraging tourism is a facade, it's a mask and it's a very bad mask, a transparent mask behind which the real interest is hidden, allowing someone to make a large profit for small money or, preferably, for free, millions of dollars. Well, of course, if the intention were to protect tourism or improve tourism, then of course it would go the other way, so of course it would go the concessions, so the 50-year concession doesn't matter at 100 years. However, it is known how concessions go, if the concessionary does not carry out its activity in accordance with the concession contract, the concession is withdrawn and that is clear. It once becomes a privately owned property, his and nothing else will be done. Nothing. That he doesn't keep his easy-earned fortune, resell, realize it. Therefore, your observation that this could have been done is simply not correct in view of the basic intensity of this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22399	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Ranko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22400	I'd just like to supplement on those words of yours something that's very important. This is an example of how the general good, something that is truly protected by law, can be very simple in some now that we start counting the days, in about 50 days become someone's property. Because if we take into account the time it will take for the law to be passed, the regulation that the government will bring, for some 50 days we may be witnesses, even if there is a theoretical possibility she must worry that someone will be in a position to have golf courses without any insurance in this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22401	Mr. Representative Zdenko Franic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22402	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Ostojic, you said you were surprised that no state support has yet been given to entrepreneurs who are going to work golf courses. I assure you that there are many mechanisms in which state support can be obtained, even for such activities in the context of the golf course. Here's the first example that comes to mind is this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Support for Education and Education, which prescribes financial support as tax relief for entrepreneurs acting on education and education. In other words, they can make golf schools, preferably for themselves and for that they will get significant tax reliefs. So that's what you were thinking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22403	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Ranko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22404	Dear colleague Franic, apparently we could find a lot of those traps that probably follow from this law. Unfortunately, the situation is that you have corrected me, and obviously convinced me that we can expect not only to profit from taking state general or even private property under favourable conditions, but unfortunately as I suspected we would probably have to allocate additional funds to help. I only have to say that I am surprised that this did not become an integral part of the health reform, i.e. that our minister did not reach out for this part to help our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22405	Next replica, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22406	Thank you very much. Mr. Ostojić, in your debate, you have raised a series of questions. This is not only specific for Croatia that it is difficult to build a golf course, other countries have their own examples. For example, in Spain the solution was such that if you have a specific country on a plot where the golf course should be made, you become an integral part, if that is a small amount of land, of the entire project. I mean, I don't know a single example. I've been searching the Internet. Here's to be given to the ministry's representatives, I haven't been able to find someone to take away the country for golf. And it's not that someone from 100 squares won't sell to someone, so they're knowingly doing damage, they're doing 20%, 17 acres, or 170 thousand squares for golf, so they can build a golf course. It's nowhere in the world. And that's why I think it's justified and doubtful that maybe even those who helped write this law have an interest behind it, because they've invested some funds in projects that they can't finish now and want to legalize them this way. And it's a very interesting piece of information that I've heard from my colleague Vrbat now that this golf course in Umag has 90 acres, that this end of Zagreb has 88, and we've put a minimum of 85 in the law. Very interesting data that suggests either an incredibly great coincidence or that someone who wrote this law knew it all well and prepared it well. I hope that Mr. Minister can answer that and that you may not have been unconsciously brought into a very awkward situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22407	And the next replica, Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22408	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Ostojić, mentioned the possibilities of incentives. I'm really surprised that this is the way this whole problem happened, because if it's something of state interest, then it shouldn't have stopped at just this. Maybe there's something else to be done. Let's just say that maybe all the students should be divided into laptops where this game would already be installed, there are games about golf piles of Internet that can, exercise, learn golf. It is possible to organise visits to the biggest golf tournaments if it is a state interest, and greater than hospitals, schools, etc. And I'm really surprised, not only did you say about the hospital, but for saving people's lives, it's not because of property rights that can be granted, and for this it can. So it seems to me that our students should actually get a little bit of a lesson from geography, because it is obvious that golf electricity is no longer what brings us warm air from America, but golf electricity is what brings us suspicious money to the Croatian Adriatic and unfortunately if this law is passed it will be a very big precedent, one very big and very bad thing for Croatia and Croatian tourism and for people who live there. As far as the political background is concerned, I remember that in 2003 a party in its programme had, that it had a slogan I love my country, and it seems to me that only, not only my own, but also the private, and the state and that unit of local self-government, and whatever it might rule out, it would only end one story. Unfortunately, here I am seems to pass, but never hope dies last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22409	A five-minute discussion of the SDP club. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22410	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here is the end of this long debate and what is seen from a series of discussions of SDP representatives we will not be able to support this bill for several reasons. I will try not to get it wrong, that SDP's club does not support the initiative to do golf courses in Croatia absolutely, but to push through a small door the interests of a few people for astronomical earnings cannot support it. In order for the Ministry of Tourism, the promoter of the Government, to deny us, we have submitted one amendment to Article 2 in which, in Article 2(2), the word "service building" is replaced by the word "service building" and the remaining text is deleted. So golf can be built a clubhouse, a parking lot and a service building. What it takes to support the golf course. Well, then let's get these facilities started, then maybe it'll be an interest in the flooring, for private purchase of the service building. Of course, we're joking a little bit. No one's gonna want to buy that on private property. But they would erase suspicion from trying to create a large amount of building land for apartments, hotels, anything else. If you can say that we're going to make golf courses, which is why because of that golf course or in Istria 5, 10 golf courses wouldn't have the interests of all hotels. But working along the coastal area, such as Umag, mentioned earlier, to make apartments and then to sell it expensively, and to get a country at a symbolic price, certainly not. And worrying is the fact that it is a lost interest to buy land from the city of Umag after the arrival of this law has been announced in the Parliament. Once she stopped wanting to negotiate with the city about the price, when it was known that the government would set the price and then buy that land by law force without anyone asking them, not the city or anyone else. And in this way, if you adopt this amendment, you would remove that suspicion and remove the suspicion that a number of other examples that I mentioned here in Zagreb would have an interest in covering these stories. What someone also mentioned in the gestures that local communities will determine what can be built. That they will determine what can be built and they have in their spatial plans a golf course, but this law defines what a golf course is. Golf course is also a catering tourist building intended for accommodation. That defines this law. On the other hand, the same could be built before if it was defined within the golf course, golf courses, certain accommodation facilities for the accommodation of athletes or golfers or anyone else, but you couldn't record them and sell them. Now you can sell and record what you built, and then no one can control it anymore if it went into commercial use, you gave it to someone there to live or live there, etc. So we also find it very worrying that the government is proposing a law that suits a narrow circle of people and will allow someone to earn astronomical earnings on the extradition of a country of Croatian citizens to the forced sale of the country of Croatian cities, municipalities, county or state, and to enter this as a proposal from the tourism ministry under the formula of saving tourism in Croatia as a vision that will help us be more tourists tomorrow in Croatia. I'm sorry that, well today, we had three laws and more that gave the Ministry of Tourism, but I'm sorry that it's the first more serious initiative of the Ministry of Tourism instead of seeing this deep strategy waiting for a year, how we're going to grow in markets where we can do it realistically without getting these laws that I say the interests of a small number of people impose on a small door. And I hope, Mr. Minister, you can answer these questions that you've heard here today, and I hope you're aware of the situation you've brought yourself to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22411	Thank you. Final review, Minister of Tourism Damir Bajs. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22412	Mr. Chairman, thank you for the opportunity for the Minister of Tourism to take a final look at this debate. I thank, first of all, all those who participated in the debate, no matter what some a little harder grades were heard, so I would say to the ministry itself. However, what is important is what binds all the debates is a wish as far as I understand all of them, because all clubs have said it in practice, that golf exists as one of the priorities in the tourist offer of the Republic of Croatia. Afterwards, the question of what makes golf needed by Croatia and if 60 playgrounds were theoretically made, which would mean European golf. I will indicate that there are 6 thousand 377 golf courses and none in Croatia at this time in Europe. If theoretically and 60 were made, it would be below one of the total number of golf courses in Europe, which is, of course, less than it belongs to us in some other variant. I will say there countries from which you can play golf, it is of course not just one Austria, Belgium or Bulgaria, the net of which are both England, Estonia, Finland, France, but one Kazakhstan, Latvia one Lithuania, one Luxembourg etc. Of course there was this concern about the question I would say would you give these golf courses which obviously there is always a great interest and in which you make a terrible profit, that in fact in Croatia there is one incentive of investors to invest in golf. Unfortunately, these ruses are not seen in the numbers of built golf courses in the last 15 years, which are actually zero. And of course, the question arises why investors are now, for example, specifically marked by some clubs, there is no possibility of building now. There is also the possibility of some extra profit, they simply haven't used it in Croatia in the last 15 years. We think there is some reason, and this is actually obvious or they wanted to protect Croatia from that extra profit or maybe they didn't find a receipt in Croatia, while they found a receipt in all other countries. However, I do not consider it a source of tourism that this figure written here, where in this case it works, for example, from 147 playgrounds in Austria, I will no longer mention, of course, a thousand 19 playgrounds in England, but we can mention the Czech Republic, Slovakia and others and in Croatia zero. Since 1995, there has been an intrinsic urge to move towards resolving the issue I would say priority and golf courses. I'll point out here that's true. There's a consortium, a consortium that the state supports building a golf course and these consortiums exist over the last ten years. During this, past and pre-government, and that's not the case. It is a note bene notorna fact which is very easy to check. Therefore, when we talk about it, then I would ask that the facts for which the Government is being done might be set up to have some consortium contracts signed or extended and for pre-existing governments. It's clearly an easily verifiable thing. Then, when we speak of course, the SDP club supported it in principle and said that in Article 2 if it were done to make this change first and adopt that possibility, it would even support this law in principle. Of course that's not what's been said until the end, but it would be possible to grow from the context. Perhaps from other debates of parliamentary deputies you might get another impression rather than so much about supporting this law in this way but I will read Article 2. So maybe if we didn't have the same text of the law so then that I wouldn't be going into the discussion about maybe wrong... the text because the law states in Article 2 of the golf club house, parking lot,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] buildings and catering and tourist buildings for the purpose of accommodation if provided by documents of spatial arrangement, and it writes beautifully, so exactly as indicated in the bill. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What does that really mean? This actually means that when we talk about it, of course, the state in no way will or wishes to have no trust in local and regional self-government because this law does not provide that as far as the motions of the Ministry of Tourism and Government are concerned, we are taking over the powers that are constitutional and legal competences of the county, cities and municipalities as far as spatial planning is concerned. And this law is indicated. Now questions are asked where these golf courses are, where they are in the counties and whether we can trust these counties, the county halls, and the municipalities, and the cities in which these facilities are actually located. Of course, the largest number of these golf courses is located in Istria County 22. I will not enter the structure of the political authority of the Istrian County nor want to do any parallels that have been made here, but quite clearly that by the logic of things, can you believe, for example, the Istrian County that when it brings these plans,... The plan cannot be made possible, so there the political authority on the ground can decide what is best for the citizens but within this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then of course we have Zadar with 9, so it doesn't matter with 6 Zagreb County, the City of Zagreb et ceter, so when we talk about that part. You asked me about the City of Zagreb, of course. It is perfectly clear and notorious that the application of this law and any changes that would occur in the golf course that you have explicitly stated can take place in the present state of affairs if, of course, the City of Zagreb changes the spatial plan. If you plead that, if you suggest it, if you answer it as a possibility now the question is whether this Parliament, this government should trust any regional self-government and the City of Zagreb. From your words, it would seem obvious that this trust should not be absolute but relatively and that we should actually limit constitutional-legal certain things that are given in spatial planning that are explicitly indicated. Therefore, the government neither wanted nor took over any kind of authority I would say that it did not belong to. So as for some other clarifications, of course when we talk about legal terminology there are a number of things, I would suggest that there is a legal terminology that is related to taking land. But of course there is something called nationalization, something called confiscation. What's important here is that, of course, in nationalization, fair value is paid according to the provision of one who determines, so "when you're being sued, cadiya judges you," when confiscation is paid nothing, that's clear. While here in this law you always mention something interesting but I'd say for this time it's a completely relevant thing and it's a market value. So the land is not taken away by anyone in a way of nationalisation and confiscation but in fact through an expropriation process that is clearly defined is that it is done through court experts and other ways is determined which is actually a real market value. And someone who won't pay market value can't come into possession not only in this situation but also in any other situation, and that's the quality difference between confiscation and nationalization, so that they don't mix those three terminologys because this one isn't in any way prescribed. I will point out that in the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, which is in force and which has been taken over in this law in one part of the article... , the state of that unit of local and regional (regional) self-government is obliged at the request of the owner of the land... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] sell at market price without the execution of a public tender et ceter. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So this Parliament has taken over that provision. This provision exists in a law that, as far as I know, has actually been voted in this House of Commons and when we take over that same article of that same law that has been in force for some time, I don't see that we are in any way, so there was no other legal norm but there are within the legal norms of the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, Article 128, which is prescribed except in one segment. I won't look back on whether golf is a man's or a woman's sport. It is quite clear that there are also women who are golfing, they are in Europe over a million and clearly there are all the things behind it hiding the sports part within the segment and therefore tournaments that concern only the female sex and then probably they also play golf... I'm glad it's listed as one of the things that needs to be solved. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So when we talk about the Golf Act, then we talk about the law in a situation where in 15 years, no golf course was made, when de facto state of course allows faster investment. It's clear, it's the meaning of the law, but everywhere in this law, market prices are written and the law says up to 25%. So when we talk about that part of the law that you have indicated, it puts a limit of up to 25% and leaves it to the counties, cities and municipalities as legal representatives and local self-government to determine whether, for example, 22 in the Istrian County and the local political authority chosen by the people, even though we can talk about any other county within the Republic of Croatia and, of course, I will follow the situation in the City of Zagreb, so we will see whether the City of Zagreb will do it or not. I believe that you too will follow the situation because you have indicated it, so we will see whether it will be possible if this law is adopted City of Zagreb to call for certain rights that are here days and change the spatial plan of the City of Zagreb in that segment. I do not want to enter into something that is not the government's jurisdiction, but I suggest that if this law was passed it would be legal procedure and that legal procedure could only be that and no different way because it could neither be. So when we read the law and even Article 2 then let us read the article to the end where it says that it must be foreseen by documents of spatial arrangement. And accordingly, I would ask that some qualifications which have been expressed at the expense of the tourism ministry on interpretation... Some other things are still being considered because if we're talking about market prices,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not about confiscation and nationalization that we don't interfere with those three concepts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22413	Thank you. A few corrections of incorrect allegations. First Mr. Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22414	Thank you very much. I would correct the incorrect assumption that we have misread or not read the same law. We've read this law, Mr. Minister, and what you say is written. Here's the same law means what you read, but don't underestimate it, it's still not enough to read just one article. After reading this article, you can also read Article 7 where it is said that it can be recorded, that parts can be sold because that parts cannot be sold then probably shouldn’t be placed 25% of the construction. That'd be five percent. And at 5% you can build a hotel and accompanying facilities enough for one to invest in that golf course. And if you're going to sell it, okay, then you can build another 20% of the apartments. So the question is, not if he'll predict. Well, of course local communities will predict that you can run a hotel here. Who wouldn't have predicted that? Well, that's logic. But you made it possible for them to build up to 25% and then get these parts that they don't need to sell. If what you're saying is true and accept this amendment. Then nothing changes. They'll regulate local communities, you won't have any problems that it's doubtful that you went to an apartment where everyone shouldn't be happy. Accept the amendment and everything in order. If, if that's what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22415	Second correction Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22416	Well, it's not true, Minister, that we are contesting the right of local self-government units to arrange space with documents. That's not true at all. Well, that's clearly their right. We object to the law forcing them to sell their property to investors in golf courses. We made that clear. We oppose the state's giving to these investors. That's what we're up against, and that's what we see as a bargain. So we can't get away with this right now on local self-government units and distort the meaning of our debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22417	Mr. Representative Rajko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22418	Ranko, Mr. President, not Rajko. Units of local administrations and self-government are not free to do so without a public tender, let alone in the sale of their assets. So it's about precedent. The price fixing is defined by law and not by the way that you predicted here that the government would determine how to set the price especially for golf courses. And thirdly, you express your mistrust with the units of local administration and self-government by determining that it will mean not according to their plans but as you allow the law to determine the VRP, or this part of the story of construction on a specific plot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22419	Apology for a name error And Madam Representative Tanja Vrbat. [[/Intruder: It happens to me, too, it's not.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22420	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here I would like to correct the allegations of a minister who said that we should ask ourselves the good intentions of local authorities when they bring in spatial planning documents. That may be partly true. In Istria for as long as I know, but we must say that on space-planned documents it gives its consent to the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Environmental Protection, which, in the event of the adoption of some spatial plans, has openly blackmailed these golf courses with its consent to the adoption of a spatial plan around coverage and the possibility of building on that golf course. Therefore, the state and the ministry and the government can have a significant impact on the spatial-planned documents of any city and any municipality.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22421	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the legal conditions are met. There are a number of amendments and some other hinted amendments on the right that we hope will then resolve some of these dilemmas that have been said through this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22422	Final proposal of the Law on Golf Courses, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 211. The debate is closed. First of all, we will vote on the proposal for the conclusion of the HNS Representatives Club, which reads: "The final proposal of the Law on Golf Courses will be carried out on the third reading.". Please make it clear about this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22423	The government does not accept the proposal of the HNS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22424	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22425	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the HNS Club, the argument of the proposal concludes that the Final Proposal of the Law on Golf Courses is to conduct a third reading on the proposal. The law is in its own measure very close to the Agricultural Land Act. The law refers to the extradition procedure in the case of a golf course. There are provisions that de facto put golf in one position in which neither the hospitals in Croatia are placed, so in which public infrastructure facilities are placed and certainly nothing related to sport, and this law is directly contrary to the provisions that up to 10% of the area can be built on sports grounds. So, de facto bypassed by our opinion at the HNS club here is turning agricultural land into any building land either in this case land for the sports field. Since there are extremely many doubts about the possibility of applying this law and without opening a huge peach to corruption and largely as we have anti-corruption laws in this case, there is a great possibility that this Law on Golf Courses and Golf Courses can be converted into our primary corruption law. We suggest that this Parliament consider once again trying to bring this law into some boundaries that do not open such a wide door to corruption in business and trade in the fields, in the rights that people receive, in turning agricultural land into building land across the third hand. We propose to this Parliament once again to consider this bill and to try to bring it into those limits where it should be, which is a law relating to a particular sport, which also refers to something related to tourism. But certainly it must not be and must not be turned into what the real danger now threatens, which is the corruption law in Croatia that promotes corruption. Therefore, I ask you to support the third reading, so that all together can come up with one solution that is at least as limited by the possibility of manipulation with land in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22426	Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded a debate on this agenda point and here we are only discussing whether or not the third reading. She received the word of Mrs. Pusic whose club suggested that the third reading be made. If we reopen this issue now, then. Please, I warn you that we are now discussing a third reading. In this regard, please, on behalf of the Club, Mrs Opačić, on behalf of the SDP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22427	Yeah, on behalf of the SDP club, I didn't ask for a debate, but I'm looking for a break for the club for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22428	I'm setting a break of 10 minutes. Continuing is at 16.35. We're continuing the session. On behalf of the SPD club, Ms. Representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go. ... I don't care. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Who's going? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22430	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP advocates' club is asking for the law to be withdrawn from the procedure and not to be voted on. Four are important reasons. First, the law introduces the obligation of the Republic of Croatia, the counties, cities and municipalities to sell their land to the investor without a public tender, which is state support. The State aid law provides that such legal proposals must also deliver the opinion of the Competition Protection Agency to the Croatian Parliament. This opinion has not been delivered and therefore there are no conditions for this legislative proposal to be voted on. Second. After the robbery and privatisation of the '90s, which was carried out planically, in pre-prepared and passed laws in Croatia, there is no more to rob than valuable land. This law represents a legal foothold for such a robbery. He predicts that the state, county, cities and municipalities must, therefore, sell land by force of this law to private investors in golf courses. He further foresees the possibility of empowering citizens, again in favour of private investors. These private investors on such acquired land will be able to build tourist buildings intended for accommodation on a quarter of the terrain, meaning apartments and sell them later. This will bring huge property benefits to these private investors and to the detriment of the Republic of Croatia, units of local self-government and citizens, the current owners of the land on which golf courses will be built. That is, therefore, a robbery law that must not be put to the vote in this House. Third. The interest of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is not the development of golf, which is obviously from the National Budget Proposal that we adopted online. For us, the golf programme as an element of the development strategy of Croatian tourism is significantly reduced by next year's funding. Instead of the million and 400 thousand kuna spent this year, it is projected to invest only 100 thousand kuna. The Government of the Republic of Croatia's intention, therefore, is not to favour golf and its development but to favour investors in golf courses and their wealth. And a fourth. One of the famous investors has an unfinished golf course in Savudria instead of Alberia. The investor is the residence of Skipper d.o.o. which would allow the adoption of this law to extend the territory to the detriment of the state, units of local self-government and... She built apartments on those grounds, their later sales and enormous wealth. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Skipper d.o.o residence in the last elections was a donor of HDZ, with an amount of 1 million kuna, and in the 2003 elections with an amount of 2 million kuna. So you know, the price of this law. The adoption of this law is the return of services for the financing service of HDZ. Skipper to the HDZ 3 million kuna, HDZ Skipper's law that will make Skipper rich. This is, therefore, corruption in the act for which the state's attorney should initiate criminal proceedings against HDZ presidents and Prime Minister Ivo Sanader and all ministers who, by their vote, passed the bill at the cabinet's session. Because of the obvious corruption this law represents, the Parliament must not vote it. If, however, you decide to proceed with the SDP vote on the basis of Article 229(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament request that this law be held by the name of the vote, so that each MP can face his own conscience whether to vote corruption law or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22431	This is the outrageous accusation of HDZ and HDZ President Dr. Eve Sanader in one countless times repeated manner by Mr. Stazic. This is where people are accused of corruption in advance, it's like a child shouldn't be born because it's going to be sick later so God forbid and die. It's the same thing, it's the same thing. So we're in advance accusing someone of being corrupt, etc. That's outrageous. And because of this, because of these insults to the Croatian Democratic Community, in front of the entire public, in an inappropriate manner, nothing proven, in a way that offends both the president of the Croatian Democratic Community and Croatia, the Democratic Community as a whole, I am giving Mr Nenad Stazic, after a long, long month of warning. I give you a warning. Ladies and gentlemen, representatives of Ms. Vesa Pusic and her party have proposed a third reading. ... And what in the name of the club? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] There's no discussion here the lady explained...... She asked for a break on behalf of the club. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please, nice. Let's not turn Parliament's last day here into a circus. If you were looking for it, you'd get it. Mrs. Opacic asked and she got it. Please, we're going to continue with the session. Mr. Cain, don't get used to me. I didn't give you my word, so you couldn't speak. You didn't get the only words. ... In front of the club said Mrs. Opacic what she had, or Mr. Stazic, at the request of Mrs. Opačić, you didn't ask for it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please don't create the last day of this Parliament in this sumptuous atmosphere. Don't. When we endured 10 months of normal work, why the accusation of such words as Mr. Stazic put forth in one inappropriate and difficult way? It's repeated several times and never apologized for his qualifications. Never. Unsuitable and unprovoked. I'm putting on Mrs. Opacic's proposal, Mrs. Pusic, forgive me, for voting to conduct the third reading. Who's for the proposal to spend the third? I haven't given you my word, Mr. Caine, and you've also received a warning on the last day of this session. And you know why you got the warning? He's talking and he didn't get his approval from the president. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm making a proposal for Mrs. HNS to conduct the third reading of this bill at the vote. Who's to suggest having a third reading please raise your hand? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? 20 MPs voted in favour of the CNS proposal, against 74 and withheld 34. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to show up on the amendments. First, the Tourism Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22432	Your Honor, Mr. President. Amendment 1. The Committee on Tourism, the Government, accepts the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22433	He accepts. It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Second amendment of the Committee on Tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22434	The government accepts the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22435	It becomes an integral part of the bill. Third. The Tourism Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22436	The government doesn't accept the proposal. It is estimated that the area of at least 85 ha is the optimal golf course area subject to this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22437	The Tourism Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22438	It is my fault that the Government does not accept the amendment, although as a Committee on Tourism we have asked that this law be put into third reading. We don't see any reason for an emergency procedure, and I'm asking to vote on this amendment. I don't see any reason for that size of 85 ha.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22439	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Agent Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22440	Your Honor, Mr. President, you've injured the entire Rules of Procedure. Wait a minute. So all the articles of the Rules of Procedure were hurt by not saying, just a little bit... I'd like you to calm down members of your party's distinguished MPs. .../The speaker went off, then turned on again./... Mr. Stazic who spoke on behalf of the SDP club... /The speaker turned off and re-enabled./ That's enough talking about your culture, and after his allegations about corruption, that is, making donations of one million and two million kunas in your place, I would call on the state's attorney's office, a respected justice minister who, after these words, should conduct an entire investigation. And this session of the Parliament shall be interrupted, and shall be called to the extraordinary when these are checked. Also, you were wrong about the Rules of Procedure when you didn't give Mr. Caine who wanted to speak in front of the IDS club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22441	Since you have incorrectly lifted the infringement plate of the Rules of Procedure and have not specified the number. You did not specify the Rules of Procedure because of the incorrectness and carrying out of things that do not fall under the violation of the Rules of Procedure and I give you a warning. Fourth, SDP Representatives' Club. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22442	The government doesn't accept the amendment. Since the proposed provisions result from the fact that the catering and tourist buildings are intended to accommodate an integral part of the golf course that is the subject of this law, because it is precisely this law that seeks to enable the rapid development of the construction of the golf course, which is also one of the essential assumptions for the possibility of building accommodation facilities for golf courses, and which is also recognised through already adopted spatial plans involving golf courses within which the construction of these buildings is envisaged. Therefore, the provision also stipulates that catering and tourist buildings can only be built if the spatial planning documents are provided as part of the golf course. The same applies to part of the provision that prescribes that they are an integral part of the golf course and other accompanying facilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22443	In front of the SDP club, Mr. Arsen Bauk. Here you go. Excuse me. Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22444	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Since the position of the SDP club is that this is a corruption law that will allow for the wealth of a small number of people, the abduction of a country of Croatian citizens, the abduction of a country of units of local administration and self-government, that is, the Croatian state. We believe that this law cannot be corrected by amendments. We're withdrawing the amendment and we're going to ask that the law be returned, or that it should be withdrawn from the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22445	Thank you. This amendment has been withdrawn. Agent Arsen Bauk, did he withdraw the amendment? Thank you. [[Intruder: Yes.]] Sixth. The Tourism Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22446	The government doesn't accept the amendment. It is estimated that the area of at least 85 ha is the optimal area of the golf course that is the subject of this law. It's the same as.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22447	We're withdrawing the amendment. The explanation was said earlier, I think you're wrong, but good.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22448	Thank you. This amendment has been withdrawn. Seven, Agent Gary Capelli?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22449	The Government shall adopt amendments in the amended form, so that Article 3(1) of the wording is replaced, in a narrow sense, by the words set out in Article 2 of this Act and after the words of the holes, the text shall be deleted until the end of this paragraph. In order to comply fully with Article 2 it is necessary to supplement the amendment in the proposed manner.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22450	Mr. Cappelli? Do you agree or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22451	Thank you very much for your explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22452	Accepts in this text. And the 8th, Agent Gary Capelli?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22453	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22454	This becomes an integral part of the bill. On the bench you are given a special explanation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the feedback of certain provisions of the final draft law. This was manifested by the parent parliamentary committee and the Legislative Committee. In accordance with Article 154. The Rules of Procedure will determine whether there are particularly legitimate reasons for the return to action of certain provisions. This is the conclusion that there are particularly valid reasons for the return of certain provisions of the Law on Golf Courses. Let's please get involved and vote on this conclusion. This is when the law comes, then we'll do it. This isn't the law, this is the conclusion. Please, let's get involved and vote. I'm asking for a result. This conclusion was reached by a majority of votes, 68 votes in favour, 9 abstentions and 7 against. On the final proposal of the Law on Golf Courses, together with the amendments adopted, we will declare ourselves individually on the proposal of the SDP Representatives Club and on the basis of Article 290(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. I'd like an assistant secretary, please. There'll be one left. Please establish the quorum. Furio, what is it? 74. We can't decide because we don't have a quorum. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, on our chance we'll continue the session tomorrow due to all these circumstances, and I'm determining we don't have a quorum. However, we can move to two next points of the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, final bill on golf courses. We did everything but vote at the end. So I'm putting it to the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22456	Mr. President, we've had a 77-seat quorum all along.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22457	We had 79.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22458	All the time because that electronic vote showed. So counting counters wasn't reliable this time, 77 exactly how much electronic it showed. So I've held a quorum for the Agricultural Land Act, but my conscience tells me to exclude myself from voting on the Golf Law, golf courses. So at this point, I'm leaving the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22459	Please establish the quorum. Please engage to determine the quorum. ... Please, let's find the quorum, if it's not there now, it's gone. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please, I gave this first, so she'll get it, she didn't fall into the water rich. See if you like red. Because you didn't turn yourself in. Please, 77 MPs have been involved. I now give my word for the violation of the Rules of Procedure to Mr. Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22460	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You have a request...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22461	Please, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic is in the assembly. Whether he'll identify himself or not is another question. He was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. ... No, he's not. He's here because I see him. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please let us finish this, people! Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22462	Mr. President, you have a written request from the SDP Club to hold a single vote on this point, so please, a name vote, so I ask you to do so so that we can know by name and by name.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22463	He's absolutely right, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. I ask Mr. Bukarica to please read here and plead because we have a quorum about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22464	Ivo Andrić – za, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, Željko Antunović, Ivan Bagarić, Arsen Bauk, Luka Bebić – yes, Davor Bernardić, Goran Beus Richembergh, Suzana Bilić Vardić – za, Mato Bilnjić, Dragutin Bodakoš, Radjana Borzana – za, Marin Brkarić, Perica Bukić – za, Vesna Buterin, Karmela Caparin – za, Gari Kappelli – za, Brankica Crljenko, Nada Čavlović, Ivan Čehok, Zdenka Čuhnilić, Tomislav Čuljak – Za, Tomislav Šuč, Hrošač, Živić Živić, Žroš, Žreživić, Željak Željko Željak, Željko Željić, Željak, Željko Željakić, Željak, Želj, Želj, Želj, Želj, Želj, Želj, Želj, Žiljkožak, Želj, Žreč, Žpić, Željkožakkić, Žpić, Željkožak, Žiljkokić, Žiljkoktić, Ž. Are we going to repeat these guys that aren't here?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22465	It's all over again.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22466	Ingrid Antičević. ... Which I won't. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Ingrid Antičević Marinović -, Željka Antunović -, Arsen Bauk -, Davor Bernardić -, Goran Beus Richemberg -, Dragutin Bodakoš -, Biljana Borzan -, Marin Brkarić -, Brankica Crljenko -, Nada Čavlović Smiljanec -, Ivan Čehok -, Zdenka Chuhnil -. ... Okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Go ahead. Restraint. Okay. Zdenka Chuhnil -, Krešimir Ćosić -, Luka Denon, Miljenko Doric -, Igor Dragovan -, Anto Đapić -, Mirjana Ferić Vac -, Gvodan Sredko Flego -, Zdenko Franić -, Ratko Gajica -, Branko Grčić -, Mario Habek -, Ivan Hanžek -, Goran Heffer -, Mirela Holy -, Mile Horvat -, Zlatko Horvat -, Silvano Hrelja -, Nadika Jelaš -, Romana Jerković -, Ivo Josipović -, Željko Jovanovic -, Ljubo Jurčić -, Marin Jurjevic -, Zlatko Koračević -, Damir Kain -, Ante Kotromanović -, Dino Kozlevac -.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22467	Let's hear it a little louder, please. Give me a little more patience.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22468	Bruno Kurelić -, Josip Leko -, Dragutin Lesar -, Slavko Linić -, Šime Lučin -, Marija Lugarić -, Gordan Maras -, Zoran Milanović -, Boris Miletic -, Neven Mimica -, Damir Mondekar -, Mirando Mrsić -, Zvonimir Mršić -, Milanka Opačić -, Rajko Ostojić -, Ranko Ostojić -, Ivica Pančić -, Tonino Picula -, Vlatko Podnar -, Milorad Pupovac -, Vesna Pusić -, Furio Radin -, Zdravko Ronko -, Gordana Sobol -, Nenad Stazić -, Tatjana Šimac Bonačić -, Sonja Šimović -, Vesna Škulić -, Boris Šprem -, Šprem -, Šemso Tanković -, Željko Turkić -, Željko Turk. ... No, it's okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Davorko Vidović -, Željko Vincelj -, Zoran Vinković -, Biserka Vranić -, Tanja Vrbat -, Antun Vujić -, Dragica Zgrebec
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22469	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The proposed Law on Golf Courses was adopted by 72 votes for, 3 against and 2 abstentions. In this way, the individual vote found that there were 77 MPs, without Mr. Silvan Hrelje. ... Therefore, the law was passed by a majority vote of 72 votes in favour, 3 against and 2 abstentions. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22470	On behalf of the HNS Club, I request a copy of this vote record, since each club has the right to receive a copy of the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22471	Yes, we do. We can. Please, nice. We can also vote electronically. But the SDP cacao asked to vote individually. ... You weren't there, and now you're coming. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I don't think it's appropriate. You don't. You're not in the Parliament. You're not right, you're not in the assembly, please. Well, you can't go in and out when you want. ... You can't. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Go ahead and sign up here and you'll get an opening statement. You turn yourself in here, and you'll get your word. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22472	Mr. President of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22473	Please. The breach of the Rules of Procedure first Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22474	Mr. President, I would like to ask Mrs. Pusic not to interrupt the session. And to make order, this is what Mrs. Pusic is doing crossing the taste of good behavior and mistrust in the President of the Parliament in the parliamentary majority. Demonstratively coming and looking for a copy of the records. You also have a television tape, so take it and watch.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22475	I'll talk about it. The lady has come and has the right to come to the table. And suggest anything. I think we voted, that it was recorded here who was from the MPs, that can always be determined and that's how we ended this whole thing. Mr. Glavas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22476	Please, Mr. President, the violation of the Rules of Procedure in Article 209 to protect this House, the High House from harassing Mrs. Pusic. This isn't a script shop, this is the Croatian Parliament. To issue a copy of the record, this is not a script shop. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22477	Please, nice. Madam Representative Vesna Pusic will be given the record and everything that happened here today. Mrs. Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22478	Thank you very much. So also the violation of Rule 209 of the Rules of Procedure, and this is the second time today because some MPs who are not quorum and do not want to be quorum enter the assembly and take the word. Therefore, if this session is still ongoing and we have not concluded it, then let it wait and search for a copy of the minutes after the session.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22479	Please. Let's finish this year, be democratic and give everyone his rights. Here, in terms of the work of the Parliament, in terms of the work of the debate, reporting for a word, representatives of the Croatian Parliament may contact. However, the doubt becomes given by a representative of the Croatian Parliament who comes out and enters does not want to be a quorum, but wants all other rights. About that, by that. I give the word to Mrs. Vesni Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22480	Thank you, Mr. President. So, my request is.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22481	Please finish this session with dignity and peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22482	My request that you as... They don't intervene, so as president, of course I have the right to see the club's record of what, of course, every club has the right to vote. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] But I beg you to give me one first in this House. Entering and leaving the assembly is a normal form of parliamentary confrontation and fighting is nothing unusual, therefore there are no mistakes, but... Poor Parliament where Branimir Glavas will protect the Croatian Parliament [[The speaker is not enabled, it is not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22483	Ma'am. Please, you've just established. Please, you've just established. Please, you've found a minute ago that a parliamentary representative can come in and out whenever he wants to and participate in the work of the Parliament. It also has the right, Mr Branimir, and no one has the right to restrict his representation rights as well as any other representative. Please. Mr. Branimir, you're in charge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22484	Mr. President, I am obliged to inform this House that Mrs. Pusic, on her way out, of the collective abandonment of this House, spoke to me with her words, and it is easy for them when Glavas holds the quorum and as far as Mrs. Pusic is concerned when the Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja fulfils its parliamentary obligations and sits in sessions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22485	Please be nice, every MP. Mrs Pusic has just found that any representative can come in and out whenever he wants to, participate or not participate. This applies to each of the 153 MPs in the Croatian Parliament and no one will question that. Here you go, Mr. Grubishic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22486	Unfortunately, Ms. Pusic is gone, and I wanted to, when she spoke, then I picked up this plate. And now it may be a little immaterial, but I wanted to tell her what Walter once said to a representative in a French assembly: "Everyone has the right to speak, and what you're saying makes me sick."
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22487	I didn't get it right. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. Thank you so much for your patience. I thank you for your persistent work. We will conclude this year's session of the Croatian Parliament and continue in January, in the second half of January. I wish you all Merry Christmas, New Year's Eve and all the best in your life to get a good rest and come back in a month and a few days to the Parliament full of enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22488	And let's finish one point tonight: - Final bill on amendments and additions to the Law on State support for education and education, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 207 The debate was held: Legislatives, Development and Reconstruction, Education, Science and Culture. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship Tajana Kesic-Sepic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22489	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the Law on State Support for Education and Education of the Croatian Parliament adopted in October 2007 and the said law prescribes financial support as tax relief for entrepreneurs who refer to their workers and entrepreneurs whose plants and workshops are trained in craftsmanship. The law lays down that when calculating state support for education and education, the basics of profit and income tax are reduced by a prescribed percentage of the eligible costs incurred in relation to education and education. However, according to the Income Tax Act, the total annual base of income tax is determined on the basis of the income which natural persons can obtain from non-permanent labour income, independent activity, property and property rights, capital, insurance and other income, and the aim of the legislator was to provide tax relief for the education and education of taxpayers to taxpayers who earn income only from independent activity, which is the existing State Support Act to be brought into line with the provisions of the Income Tax Act. This means that, as a basis for the calculation of support for education and education for individuals performing economic activity, income from independent activity rather than the basis for the calculation of income tax is to be determined. Furthermore, the Law on State Support for Education and Education also provides for support for entrepreneurs whose plants and workshops are subject to training for crafts activities and, according to the provisions of the law, the maximum amount of support is fixed in percentage, only in the percentage amount of the reduction of the base of the accounts, and therefore, due to the high amount of profits generated by the largest companies, it is necessary to limit the amount of support to an absolute amount, i.e. to the amount prescribed by the provisions of the Income Tax Regulation. These shortcomings and discrepancies with the provisions of the Income Tax Act were corrected by the Regulation amending and supplementing the State Support Act adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia at a session held in December 2007. Furthermore, following the adoption of the laws and regulations, the Government of the Republic of Croatia also made a decision on a map of regional support which sets out areas in which state support to economic development can be granted, and with this decision it is necessary to comply with the provisions of the Law on State Support for Education and Education. With regard to this proposal for a law, it is proposed that natural persons carrying out an economic activity should be determined to reduce the income of independent activity, rather than the basis for the calculation of the income tax when calculating state support for education and education. Also, according to the rules on income taxation, i.e. in accordance with Article 45(1), paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The Income Tax Regulation shall determine the maximum amount of support available to scientists by entrepreneurs whose plants and workshops are subject to training for craftsmanship, which is now 1600 kn per scientist per month and so that the users of state support for education, education are allowed to reduce the base of profit tax and income from independent activity to 10 percentage points, and if the activity is carried out in the area defined as the area of central and eastern and Adriatic Croatia by decision on the map of regional support, i.e. 5 percentage points, respectively, if the activity is carried out in the area of northwestern Croatia. Therefore, the amendments to this law are done to comply with the Income Tax Act, the Income Tax Regulation and the same with the regional support map. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope you will accept this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Support for Education and Education, and I would also like to say that we accept the amendment of the Committee on Legislatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22490	Thank you. Committees: legislation, development and reconstruction. Committee of Education, Science and Culture Mr Nevio Šetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22491	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament discussed it at its 10th session on 4 December 2008. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Support for Education and Education with the Final Proposal for a Law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Act of 27 November 2008. The Committee discussed the issue as an interested working body. The opening argument was tabled by the applicant's representative. The draft law corrects the current Decision of the Income Tax Act which does not adequately address the question of the Law on State Support for the Education and Education of Workers, i.e. its provisions on financial support as tax relief for entrepreneurs who refer to their workers and entrepreneurs whose facilities and workshops are trained in craftsmanship. As regards the first one, the applicant points out that the issue should be brought into line with the Income Tax Act and so that, as a basis for calculating support for education, education for natural persons carrying out economic activity, income from independent activity should be determined, but not the basis for the calculation of income tax as is the case now. As regards the other issues, the proposal for a law lays down a new solution to restricting the reduction of income tax base or the base of profit tax for entrepreneurs whose plants and workshops are subject to training for craft professions. Since, under the existing regulation, larger companies can, on this basis, be released today in unwarranted absolute amounts, all within the limit to 15% of the tax base. The proposal proposes the adoption of an emergency law, since it considers that this requires particularly justified state reasons by calling for Article 159. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Because it considers that the obligations of large employers, if not limited in absolute terms, can lead to major economic disturbances in the application of those rules. Without discussion, the committee unanimously concluded. It is proposed to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on State Support for Education and Education.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22492	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. HDZ Representatives' Club, Mr. Representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22493	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of the debate on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Support for Education and Education, I would like to say that the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support that law in the urgent process of the united first and second readings, as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Law on State Support for Education and Education of Workers adopted the Croatian Parliament in October 2007. The main reasons were the rapid development of technology, and the growing competition of economic operators in the international market required the permanent education of workers, lifelong education and training of workers, except for the positive effects of business, of course, and the increase in the cost of employers. As a result, the Law on State Support for Education and Education of Workers provides financial support as a tax relief to entrepreneurs who refer their workers to education and education, and to entrepreneurs whose plants and workshops are trained in craftsmanship. This Law amending and supplementing the Law on State Support for Education and Education seeks to bring the provisions of the existing law in line with the provisions of the Income Tax Act, Decisions on a map of regional support, and to limit, in absolute terms, the support that entrepreneurs can achieve for receiving scientists to learn and propose: For natural persons carrying out economic activity, determine that when calculating state support for education and education, income from independent activity is reduced, rather than the basis for the calculation of income tax as prescribed by the provisions of the law. Two. To determine the maximum amount of support that a scientist can provide for entrepreneurs whose facilities and workshops are trained for craft professions in accordance with the untaxable amount of rewards to students during practical work and teaching that are harmonised in accordance with the rules on income taxation. And lastly, the users of state support for education, education allow for a reduction in the base of profit tax and income from independent activity to increase by 10 percentage points, if the activity is carried out in the area defined as the area of central eastern, i.e. the Pannonian Croatia, i.e. up to 5 percentage points if the activity is carried out in the area of northwestern Croatia. By reducing the income from independent activity in the calculation of support for education and education of the provisions of the existing Law on State Support for Education and Education, it will be brought into line with the provisions of the Income Tax Act, and by prescribing the maximum possible amount of support that can be achieved by entrepreneurs whose workshops and plants will remove unreal high amounts that can be achieved by the largest entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia under the existing provisions of the law. Furthermore, this will level the amount of support that scientists can receive for teaching. big and small entrepreneurs. In order to implement this law, there is no need to provide additional resources from the budget of the Republic of Croatia, and we have received the opinion of the Competition Protection Agency, which says that the amendments and additions to the Law on State Support for Education and Education contained in the draft Bill on State Support for Education and Education are made in accordance with the provisions of the State Support Act. Because of everything I said, the Croatian Democratic Community club supports the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Support for Education and Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22494	Thank you. SDP representative club, Mr Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22495	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I can see that you're surprised that in the late hours we're discussing this law, honoring Madam Secretary of State, here I am as tired as you are, but this law because of the context in which it is brought really deserves a few words because the interesting sequence of circumstances is related to this law. In fact, there was an income tax law first, and then the Government passed the Law on State Support for Education and Education, which was found to be incompatible with the Income Tax Act, and then the Government passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Support for Education and Education, which has a limited period of time, and therefore we now have to bring amendments and additions to the Law on State Support for Education and Education, and we spend both our time and government time and spend and actually the infrastructure of the Parliament and the money of the state-run taxpayers, all because the Government's professional services did not detect this non-compliance in time and actually prevented the adoption of a law that does not comply with the already existing laws. Furthermore, this situation with the opinion of the Competition Protection Council, which came to our bench in the last minutes of the debate on golfing of Croatia, and in fact this opinion was made on 28 August 2008, sent to the Secretariat of the Parliament on 1 September 2008, in order to get it in the late evenings of 9 December 2008, a few minutes before we begin to discuss this law, which was addressed to a proposal on 27 November 2008, so if we were supporters of the conspiracy theory, we might be asked rhetorically about which version, the version of the law was actually given an opinion by the Competition Protection Agency. Is this a version of the law or some version that insisted on August 28, 2008. How can we be sure of that? In other words, this Law on State aid for education and education was actually adopted because the Republic of Croatia had to correct its existing way of tax incentives for research and development, education and professional training of employees and then abolished the support precisely because of this competition problem, i.e. abolished tax relief and brought state support because it had previously been caused by indirect fiscal aids which were not in line with European Union rules. The educational structure of the Republic of Croatia is quite unsatisfactory and mainly follows the educational structure of the population which is the same on the low branches, although we all swear on a society of knowledge and that is our strategic commitment. However, for example, the number of masters and doctors working in the economy is minimal, I would say, and the transfer of knowledge from the academic and scientific community to the economy is based on knowledge despite the efforts of our parliamentary representatives and the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, unfortunately very, very slowly. So, with all this trinkets and sniveling, we can actually ask ourselves, is it really about some European Union cheating again or the true way we're going to try to improve the education structure of the workforce? In any case, this law is nothing more than another example of correcting laws and regulations that are quickly passed, and the question is how is it possible, why something is not done to make professional services really do their job. How is it possible that failures in compliance with the law itself were not detected prior to the release of the parliamentary procedure? Why laws, especially those with certain material consequences, are not subject to some simulations, mathematical simulations to see what are the consequences of the law, savings or costs. What government services at all? Why was it not previously considered to comply with the provisions on support for users identified by the regional State aid map? Because this too, that sentence is mentioned in the assessment of the situation. So not only does it not comply with the law, but it also does not comply with the provisions on support for certain users. One of the consequences of these changes and additions is that of the aids that large and small entrepreneurs can achieve. Why do these big and small entrepreneurs put themselves in quotes? It's some context we don't understand. What are big, and what are small entrepreneurs? Are small entrepreneurs hiring one employee or five workers or 10 or 100 or 10 grand? Here, even in the law, they're dealing with some kind of elementary mathematics and then mentioning some billion and a half kuna, if it's the base of the profit tax, then 75 million kuna could be spent on education. Well, for God's sake, 75 million, that's half this budget spent by the Ministry of Science on all scientific research projects. Well, who even thought about playing with numbers like this? Well, God forbid someone wants to spend 75 million kuna on education, so that would mean opening another university, so that would be phenomenal and not actually negative as it is here that wants to be shown as why this law is being passed. The concept of entrepreneurs is not defined either. It is not clear whether this support also applies to craftsmen or employees of those craftsmen. This should be clearly and unequivocally stated in the law, so I do not know why these amendments and additions have not been used to define it well, because craftsmanship gives a good part of the gross social product in the Republic of Croatia. It is interesting that the text of the law also uses the right concept of workers, according to the Labour Act, workers do not mean craftsmen who work in craftsmanship. And the question is, does this law even apply to the education of craftsmen? The law provides support for users of support that performs training for crafts activities in their workshops, but should be noted that the Croatian Chamber of crafts suggested that one scientist reduces the tax base by 10%, by two by 20%, and that for each further scientist, 5% is increased without that limit of 5 kuna. This would actually mean supporting the development of craftsmanship in the Republic of Croatia. And while we are somehow bypassing EU rules in a legal way, given that the aid law is in line with the practice of the European Union, let us increase the amounts of support, i.e. to return percentages such as by 91, and make this step in stimulating education and expenditures, a genuine step towards a knowledge society and economy named and the economy based on calling, and now in still under the emotional pressure of previous debate on golfing cannot again ask whether these people who are going to do golf courses are large or small entrepreneurs under quotes like here in the law and indicated, and whether they are going to use the real advantages that this law will provide for them so that they can train their country to draw those golf clubs and balls and thus also stimulate the development of tourism and tourism offers. All things considered. It would be good if, when the laws come to the Assembly, they were properly simulated, mathematically with the consequences of the budget either positive or negative, and not as I said that we had to redo one and the same law on several occasions and correct the mistakes that didn't have to happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22496	Thank you. The HSS club, Mr. Representative Boris Klemenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22497	Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen who stayed at 22:22 p.m. Here is a brief version of this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Support for Education and Education. In the beginning, I will say that the Club of Representatives of the HSS will support this bill, and with a brief explanation and reasons why we will do so. The rapid development of technology and the growing competition of economic operators in the international market require continuous education of workers. The Law on State support for education and training of workers prescribes financial support as tax relief for entrepreneurs who refer to their workers and entrepreneurs whose plants and workshops are trained in craftsmanship. However, as we have already heard the Law on State Support for Education and Education, it is necessary to comply with the provisions of the Income Tax Act, since, according to the Income Tax Act, the total annual income tax base is determined on the basis of income obtained by natural persons from non-permanent labour income, independent activity, property, property rights, capital, insurance, etc., that I do not list everything, and the aim of the proposer of this law is to provide tax relief for education and education for taxpayers who earn income only from independent activity. This means that, as a basis for the calculation of support for education and education for natural persons carrying out economic activity, income from independent activity should be determined, rather than the basis for the calculation of income tax. Furthermore, as the maximum possible amount of support that scientists can achieve, we have also heard this, only in percentage amount, the reduction of the base of the profit and income tax base, which is due to the high amount of profits generated by the largest commercial companies, the possible amount of support should be limited to the absolute amount, i.e. to the amount prescribed by Article 45(1). Income tax regulations and for the purpose of bringing support into real-life frameworks. This proposal and does so by prescribing Article 4 that the amount of the reduction in the base of profit or income tax from self-employed activity cannot be greater than the annual non-taxable amount, rewards to students during practical work and teaching by each scientist at the very time of teaching. Since the Government of the Republic of Croatia has made a decision on a map of regional support which sets out areas in which state support to economic development can be granted, it is also necessary to harmonise the provisions laid down in the State Support Act and for education and education by state support for education and education for users who carry out their activities in the area of the determined regional State support map. The proposed amendments go towards harmonising already adopted legal solutions, so that there is no difficulty in practice due to disagreements with applicable rules, i.e. that users may exercise their rights uninterruptedly. This appropriation is intended to cover: It is also important to align the provisions of the Law on State Support for Education and Education with the provisions of the decision on a map of regional support, in order to allow the use of an additional reduction of the basis for the calculation of income tax and income from the independent activities of entrepreneurs operating in the areas of central and eastern Croatia, the Adriatic Croatia and north-western Croatia. It is important to stress at the end of this short part of my debate on behalf of the club that it is not necessary to provide for specific funding from the state budget, and as regards urgency, it is very justified because it removes the difference in support between large and small entrepreneurs, but also because of the limited duration of the Amending and Supplemental Act on State Support for Education and Education. That's it. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, and good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22498	Thank you very much. I still have to wait good night. Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22499	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I'd like it to be a slightly different situation right now, if there were more people, for some other time then I'd say that you'd take advantage of what we're discussing about this law to say, but I can't say that I'm going to use the crowd, because there's no crowd. This may tell us about how important this story is to us about the knowledge society and the lasting education. I've got to be optimistic sometimes, so I believe that it happened by accident that it was at half 11 p.m. we're actually discussing a rather important topic. When we were two years ago, it seemed to me that the Law on adult education had been passed, our employers rebelled strongly against the adoption of this law because they said that the provisions and the Law on adult education are in no way stimulating for employers. Then the answer from the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports was that the Law on State Support for Education and Education would come, that's the one we're talking about now, and that it would sort of be settled all together. A week ago here in the Parliament we discussed a report on the use of state support and we actually saw very few employers benefiting from these state support for education and education. And by the way, I don't know education and education, how does that education fit in, and then what does technologically mean? I'd rather be with education and learning, but about that later. And when we look at data like that, when we look at data that our labour force is extremely uneducated, our worker on average doesn't spend up to three days a year on permanent training, while in some developed countries people spend much more time on lifelong learning programs. That's why their economy is like that. It seems to me that we can't stop at just saying we've passed this law, so we've already quoted it as how we need to do it, but we need to take some extra steps, other than the state aid prescribed itself, in this sense, tax relief, in order to really achieve the effect that we all want, around which we seem to have both political and professional and any other consensus, which is to allow employers primarily good conditions in order to be motivated to send their workers and workers to perfection or to retrain or to new education. Because so far you have a lot and silly situations, because let's say the younger people and some older people want to enroll in some postgraduate study, it will be for the benefit of them and their employer, etc., but in very rare cases, this post-graduate study pays them, not to mention all the difficulties they have to make for a year, two, three, five to leave the workplace, learn, study, say for themselves and for the benefit of that future employer, and actually a large number of giving up because it's financially unacceptable to them because it's simply too expensive for them, and on the other hand nobody guarantees them staying in their workplace. Not to mention that the Law on adult education is actually not followed in any way by a European programme, it is an integrated programme of lifelong learning that sets this whole story of lifelong learning in a significantly different way than what it is set through our laws, so through the Law on adult education, I think completely wrongly called shows that the whole concept is not understood and on the other hand nominally relatively good regulations that make it easier for employers, but in that particular thing, in the particular situation actually does not realize the effect that should be achieved. So here may be this debate as an appeal to the people of the Ministry of Economy whether to give along with an economic and crafts chamber, to work with the Ministry of Science, so I don't know which one. I am sure that there is also a political and professional consensus on this, and it seems more than just the nominally prescribed measures that sound pretty good, which are actually very little implemented in practice. Is it time for some action plan to go to this knowledge society, therefore, primarily through education and constant learning of workers who are at different levels or that I don't know exactly what, but what this says in the law isn't enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22500	Final review by State Secretary Tajana Kestic Sapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22501	Thank you very much. Here I am thanking everyone in this late hour for the debate. I would like to answer to Mr from the SDP Club that the regional support floor was adopted and passed in Brussels only in the summer of this year, and the law was passed last year, so we were unable to predict which map would be adopted statistically by the European Commission. As regards the opinion of the Competition Protection Agency, therefore, no law that goes into the government procedure can go unless it has received a positive opinion from the Competition Protection Agency that checks whether the law complies with the State Aid Act or the State Aid Regulation or takes care of competition. The Law on State Support for Education and Education also has a positive opinion from the European Commission, so it is all harmonised and there is absolutely no concern that these are some unauthorized support. I would also like to look back at my colleague and say that this is not the only thing, so the truth is that entrepreneurs are using a little bit, and we have encouraged actions to inform better, inform entrepreneurs, not only about this law, but also about the Law on Encouragement of Investments where entrepreneurs are also, if they invest more than 2 million kunas, they have the possibility of getting an existing tax relief, but I also say because of the need or lack of knowledge about the possibility of using it, they do not use it. That is why we have launched a whole series of actions, seminars and round tables and workshops to which we approach not only our support for which I must say that this year there have been 11 000 and 600 entrepreneurs to support the competitiveness of the small economy within these supports, but also exist for the education of entrepreneurs and craftsmen so that we have a variety of visions of education from "old up" to the stage of growth and development, and now the European Commission has recognised in its report projects that we have for education of entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs themselves and for entrepreneurship and since the following year Croatia will be the centre of the regional center for entrepreneurial education for the countries of Southeast Europe. So I think there's been a really big progress in the education and education of entrepreneurs. Here I am thanking everyone in the end and I hope that you will support the amendments to this law, and certainly your suggestions are very good for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22502	Thank you. One correction by Zdenko Franic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22503	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State. I'm correcting your claim that I questioned the need for an opinion, giving the opinion of the Competition Protection Agency. I questioned the timing when that opinion came to the bench, and it arrived about half an hour before we did, it wasn't your fault anyway. But for quality preparation of the debate, it would have been appropriate if it had come a long way before, and other than that, when comparing the dates of release into the parliamentary procedure of the law itself and this opinion then it was a bit of a mess. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22504	Thank you. Anyone else want to discuss it? ... It would really be a shame to break up now. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm interrupting the hearing. [[We're on our way, aren't we?]] I'm concluding on this point... It's a debate. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm interrupting the session. Resume tomorrow at 10:30. Budget, 2009 budget, budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-09-0.u22505	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Support for Education and Education. It was an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. number 207. The debate is closed, amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law. During the debate, the applicant's representative accepted these amendments. In accordance with Article 169 of the Treaty on the The Rules of Procedure shall become an integral part of the final draft law and shall not be voted on. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Support for Education and Education. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This bill was adopted by most votes, 119 votes for and 1 abstention. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We continue with the session and agenda item we announced. - The proposal for the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009, with projections of the state budget for 2010 and 2011 of the non-profit users' proposals for 2009 with a projection proposal for 2010 and 2011 (a) of Croatian Waters (a) of Croatian Roads) of the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks (a) of the Croatian Privatisation Fund (a) of the Environmental Protection Fund and Energy Efficiency Proposal for the State Budget and financial plans of extra-programal users for 2009, with the Proposal for a projection for 2010 and 2011 (consolidated) is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The adoption of the State budget shall be subject to the provisions of Articles 174 and 175. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Local, Regional and Regional Self-Government, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Relations, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Health and Social Care, the Committee on Lawfulness, the Committee on Development and Reconstruction, the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, the Committee on Tourism, the Committee on the Economy, the Committee on Information, Information and Media, the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture and the Committee on War Veterans. You received the reports at the session. I remind you of Article 31. The budget law whereby all amendments and additions adopted by the Parliament to the proposed budget must comply with the determined amount of the permitted lack of consolidated budget of the Republic of Croatia. In the course of the debate, amendments were tabled in the draft budget proposing an increase in budgetary expenditure above the amount set out in the draft budget. I can accept it provided that a reduction in other expenditures and expenditures is proposed at the same time. The amendments referred to above shall not be burdened by the budgetary stock and the burden of additional borrowing. With this in mind, I warn that only those amendments drawn up under the Budget Law will be referred to the parliamentary procedure. The deadline for the amendment is due tomorrow at 12 o'clock. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines that amendments and budget tabled cannot be voted upon before three days from the date of the debate can elapse. Therefore, by respecting the rules of the Rules of Procedure on Amendments and Budget, we will vote on Monday 15 December 2008. I suggest we work without a break. So far, it's been reported except for clubs somewhere around 60 individual debates. I ask the Prime Minister of Doctor Ivo Sanader to further explain the draft budget. Here you go, Prime Minister.
