ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6677	Thank you, Mr. President. Here is the Law on Working Times, Mandatory Holidays of Mobile Workers and Road Traffic Recording Devices, the title itself speaks of two important topics which, we can say specifically and attach to a point that directly concluded the debate. So, on the safety of road traffic and I would like to point out firstly that both mobile workers' working hours and the theme of road traffic recording, so the tachograph is set out in the Road Safety Act, and for the first time is defined as a special law or special law for the first time. With this law, we are in line with, of course, two directives, two European Union regulations, and the basic issues that are governed by this law, let me sum up in a few of the following sentences. Therefore, the protection of mobile workers is generally a new concept in Croatian legislation and involves not only drivers but also trainees, trainees, so all those who are involved in the steering process and their protection is achieved definitely by this law in a way that clearly determines the rules of their weekly vacation, maximum working hours, both weekly and monthly. And thus, with their better protection, it also contributes to better road safety. Drivers must be familiar with their rules, their capabilities, their schedules and not overstep them. And this obligation to meet a driver is the obligation of an employer, as is the obligation to keep records with an emphasis on the excess of maximum average weekly working time. The second theme of this law is road transport recording devices, so tachographs. As known in the European Union, new cargo motor vehicles are required above 3.5 tonnes of digital tachograph possession since 1.1.2007. This law builds the obligation into Croatian legislation with the proposed implementation deadline from 1 January next year. Furthermore, this law also lays down the conditions which must be met by legal and natural persons for the purpose of obtaining a licence, for carrying out, installing and programming, checking and reviewing, and repairing and disassemblying tachographs, which is one important area which is particularly regulated, and the next important area is also the selection of a legal person who will, in accordance with this proposal of the law, and after the public tender, receive public authority to issue cards for digital tachographs. And finally, what I want to point out is particularly in the opening explanation of the verification that is essential and the most important part of every law checking is this law also set out in a very precise way, in a way that will in practice mean that checks will have to be made in both the residential part of the carrier, so in the company's headquarters and on the road, in terms of working hours of mobile work, they will need to be significantly strengthened. In particular, from 1 June O.G. That control must be within a specific percentage of working days of mobile workers, and then doubled from 1 January to the following year, so that, of course, the resolution ministry, as appropriate to that provision, will legally increase its administrative capacities in the implementation of this law. In other words, hire a few and equip a technical which is particularly important for a few dozen inspectors who will have the opportunity to intervene on the road, as well as to conduct a review in the residential part, so at the centre of the carrier. Here's to all your questions, we're at your disposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6678	Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate on behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6679	Honorable President, Secretary of State, fellow MPs. Well, the proposal for a labour law, mandatory breaks of mobile workers and road transport recording devices is necessary for Croatia, not only because the legislation of the Republic of Croatia is harmonised with the acquis of the European Union or with directives and regulations in the field of road transport, but also because of better working and social conditions of mobile workers, and consequently because of greater road safety. The regulation adopted by the Republic of Croatia by ratification of the '93 succession is currently in force. in the year, the European Agreement on the work of the crew on vehicles carrying out international road transport, which was concluded in Geneva on 1 July 1970. the year, which provides for certain restrictions on the duration of driving and compulsory rest. The proposed law regulates the area of social conditions in such a way as to clearly determine the protection of mobile workers in road transport from the regulation of working time and mandatory rest of mobile workers so that the average working time per week cannot be longer than 48 hours, i.e. Maximum working hours may be extended to 60 hours only if the average of 48 hours is not exceeded for 4 months. The daily driving time shall not be longer than 9 hours and may exceptionally be extended to a maximum of 10 hours, but not more than twice a week. The driving time should not be longer than 56 hours per week and its maximum duration should not be exceeded. After a four-and-a-half hour driving period, the driver is obliged to stop driving for at least 45 minutes. If mobile workers perform nighttime work, their total working hours shall not last longer than 10 hours within each 24-hour period. The law prescribes daily and weeks of rest, and also points to the conclusion of collective agreements between social partners in order to improve the quality of work and social rights of mobile workers. The fact is that professional drivers, meaning mobile workers to whom this law applies, have a significantly higher risk of heart attack and heart disease compared to other men. In addition, the stress of life and malnutrition are more likely to suffer from ulcers on the stomach or duodenum, and this has been discovered by research conducted by the "Caroline Hospital" from Sweden in Stockholm, and the same results have also shown research by the Labin Home of Health. It is therefore important that the law, that these legal regulations, be fully protected by the health of mobile workers in road transport. The draft law lays down a legislative framework for the introduction of a digital tachograph in the Republic of Croatia for new vehicles to be registered for the first time since 1 January 2009. Now all vehicles whose maximum permissible mass is greater than 3 and a half tonnes must have analogue tachographs. Digital tachograph will certainly enable and enable easier and more efficient control of driver's working time, reduce the ability to manipulate the records, and enable faster data processing to cover as many professional drivers' working days as possible. The introduction of a digital tachograph into the European Union started on 5 August 2005, and for all other members of the European Union, mandatory application has been made since 5 May 2006. The introduction of digital record tachographs in no country was shorter than two years. The law also prescribes the issue of a memory card of drivers and carriers, as well as the card of the supervisory authority and workshops, and the time on which the cards are issued, as well as the supervision of the cards issued. In addition to the verification procedure by road traffic inspections and police officers, very high penalties have been imposed for legal and natural persons in the event of non-compliance with the law. The Croatian Democratic Community Club believes that the proposed Labour Time Act, mandatory mobile workers' holidays and road registration devices achieves the purpose and objective of improving the social conditions for employees to whom the law applies, as well as improving general road safety and transport companies will compete on the same basis as reducing unfair competition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6680	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Mr. Agent Ivan Hanzek. He's gone. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. She's gone. He's losing his right to debate at this agenda point. Mr. Representative Milivoy Schwartz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6681	Dear President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The draft Code on Working Time, Mandatory Breaks of Mobile Workers and Road Traffic Recording Devices with the final proposal for a law is a regulation whose adoption and adoption is a further harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union in the field of social conditions in road transport. The draft bill lays down a legislative framework for the introduction of a digital tachograph in the Republic of Croatia and is one in a series of regulations that will allow the application of it by the beginning of 2009. All vehicles with a maximum permissible mass greater than 3 and a half tonnes must have an analogue tachograph installed, and from 1 January 2009, according to this proposal, all new vehicles registered for the first time in the Republic of Croatia will have a digital tachograph installed. Recording speed and distance as well as working time and rest in the case of analogue tachograph is recorded on a tachograph sheet on which the top of the printer makes a record of mechanical pressure on the tachograph, while all data are recorded in the memory card from the digital tachograph. The development of modern technology and its application to devices for recording the speed of the journey, i.e. the tachographs of a Member State of the European Union, have prescribed the mandatory use of digital record tachographs, which enables more simple monitoring, practicality of reading and information processing of collected data. The area of social conditions in road transport activities has so far not been regulated in the way provided for in this draft bill, i.e. in a way that clearly sets out definitions, competences and supervision of working hours and holidays of mobile workers with the aim of transport safety and the health and safety of persons performing those tasks. This draft bill will regulate the protection of mobile workers in road transport in a way that clearly lays down rules on adequate rest, maximum working time and annual time. In addition to improving traffic safety, this draft bill will create conditions to prevent distortions of competition and guarantee the safety and health of mobile workers who need to be familiar with the rules and which determine the dynamics and shifts of the working time period and rest and rest periods, or the availability period. This draft draft law will lay down the conditions that legal and natural persons must fulfil for the transfer of business licenses and the programming of checks and checks and the selection of a legal person who, following the public tender, will receive the public authority of the issue of cards. The provisions of this draft bill shall for the first time edit the way and procedure of issuing and assigning memory cards and that card of the driver which includes, among other information, photographs of the driver, the workshop card and the carrier card as well as the supervisory authority's card. On the memory chip cards personalized for each individual user, all deciding data will be stored working time, rest, mileage and so on and transport companies will keep records of work in a way that avoid manipulations and will also affect increased road safety. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament propose the adoption of this law by emergency procedure because the draft Act on Working Time, the mandatory holidays of mobile workers and road registration devices with the final proposal is part of the National Programme for the Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. For these reasons, I will support the draft bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6682	Thank you. Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6683	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a bill that tries to regulate what has been defined by several regulations so far, not only the Law on road traffic or road safety, but also a whole series of sublegal acts, and it is obvious that this accession process of the European Union is welcome, among other things, to standardise our own regulations, not only to bring them into line with the standard established but in the countries of the European Union, but also to add as many legal norms as possible in a revised way as possible to a certain area. However, this law is also not fully consistent with this, so one part of the provisions covering European regulations still do not define within its framework but leaves them to sublegal acts. It will be very important for the competent resolution ministry to stick to the deadlines set by this proposal or draft law in order to bring into force, within a reasonable period prescribed here, all the regulations to be followed up on a consistent basis. It is also very important that it is an activity that may have more than any other direct impact on the safety of traffic on high-speed state roads and highways that actually bear the greatest burdens of transit, i.e. road goods and passenger traffic. Unfortunately, it will not apply to vehicles carrying out direct passenger transport up to 50 km, although I do not see what is the difference that has been excluded from those vehicles, given that there are transport companies that carry on the same buses up to 50 km and a liner transport of more than 50 km in different areas or areas in which they have a concession. In this regard, it would not be good to cover up the use for one purpose in fact of smuggling those vehicles that are required under this law to have all the harmonisations. Furthermore, it should be said that this trend in road traffic growth on our roads is likely to continue, of course, on the very construction of roads, especially highways, and that in this sense the death will be increasing and greater. It is therefore very important that these regulations determine what are minimum standards of conduct, working time, social security for people who do this job but make it available and understandable to all those who do this work. It is also true that this time, relatively few freighted traffic routes, which is Zagreb-Split-Dubrovnik, are likely to increase this type of flow as much as is done to the real construction of the Adriatic-Ionian highway, which gets all of its elements, i.e. by extending the road to Dubrovnik, and in fact its announcement is being serious and should be prepared in that sense, and that means building special inspection services or their teaming. We have seen here in the bill of law that the funds for 2008 are forecasting and announcing the 2009 funds that will actually require the implementation of this law. The secretary of state said one interesting thing, which is that it is expected that several dozen inspectors are involved and I do not know if it means redistributing within the existing inspection services – probably not, but by hiring new ones. It would be good to hear if gross wages for these people are also an integral part of the intended costs. It seems to me that it is very important to give this law as much attention as possible, to recapture it and, among other things, through professional associations because we are witnessing that part of the workers who are employed in this activity is actually being exhausted to the maximum. They're exposed to high-risk traffic. It goes so far as to send them to a very deadly destination. Let's not forget, two years ago, we had cases of the abduction of our people who were doing exactly this job, and they were going to Iraq. Therefore, it is vital that all those involved in this work know the level of their social protection of workers’ rights and all that this law finally gives them. But also encourage them not to agree to, conditionally speaking, immoral offers by their employers, and the introduction of a digital tachograph I hope will completely reduce that possibility of a gray zone and I welcome in this regard in the name of the Croatian People's Party's Club of Representatives that kind of modernization, control of the situation in transport. And lastly, I would just like to ask that, if possible, the provisions of this law are copied in English and made available at border crossing points. And it seems to me that it is not bizarre to ask the promoter to pay particular attention to and inform Turkish citizens who are actually drivers with the highest frequency on our roads leading from the Slovenian and Hungarian borders towards the Republic of Serbia, but also to Bosnia and Herzegovina, it would not be a bad idea to use the basic information on the obligations of this law and the situations in which control can actually make them available in the Turkish language at border crossing points when entering the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6684	Thank you. Mr. Representative Kresimir Gulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6685	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, I would say that the Republic of Croatia adopted a notification of the succession of European agreements on the work of the crew on vehicles carrying out international road transport and concluded in Geneva on 1 July of the 1970s, which prescribed certain restrictions on the duration of driving and compulsory rest. The draft law lays down a legislative framework for the introduction of a digital tachograph in the Republic of Croatia. One is in a series of regulations that will allow for the application of the same by the beginning of 2009. Furthermore, this draft bill will also regulate the protection of mobile workers in road transport in a way that clearly lays down rules on adequate rest and maximum working week. In addition to improving traffic safety, a new draft bill will create conditions for preventing distortions of competition, guaranteeing the safety and health of mobile workers who need to be familiar with the rules that determine the dynamics and shifts of the working time of rest and rest, i.e. the period of availability. The above applies specifically to working hours at night, and to the consequences of long-term work hours. There is also a series of impacts on the health of people who have a particular impact on road safety. The draft law will also improve the social conditions of mobile workers, resulting in them in increased road safety and concrete provisions relating to the mandatory taking of a weekly vacation at least once every two consecutive weeks, and the use of a daily vacation that must not be shorter than the continuous time of 9 hours in accordance with the provisions of this law. In particular, the article 4 said that the working hours and mandatory vacations of mobile workers say that the average weekly working hours of mobile workers should not be longer than 48 hours. The maximum weekly working hours may be extended to 60 hours only if the average of 48 hours is not exceeded for 4 months. So if a mobile worker performs jobs for different employers, working hours are the sum of working hours for all employers. I think it's important to be introduced into this bill. Furthermore, the provision of this draft bill for the first time regulates the way and procedure of issuing and assigning memory cards and that card of the driver which includes, among other things, a photograph of the driver, a workshop card, a carrier card and a control body card. The obligation to equip with digital tachograph will refer to new vehicles that will be registered for the first time in the Republic of Croatia since 1 January 2009, and in the category are vehicles that have to have a tachograph. So there are some consequences that will be achieved by passing laws, and that is to harmonize and, to harmonise and translate existing rules with the decision on norms and recommendations, provided for by the rules of legal property of the European Union. Further harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legal gains of the European Union in the field of social conditions, the introduction of a digital tachograph into the system of control of driving time and rest, the establishment of mobile workers' status under their working conditions, and their protection, which includes provisions on working time and compulsory rest. Limiting the duration of night work for professional drivers so as to ensure compensation for that work. Here's what's said, in accordance with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are proposed to adopt this law by an urgent procedure, because the draft Act on Working Time and Mandatory Rest of Mobile Workers and Road Traffic Recording Devices with the Final Proposal is what is important that it is part of the National Programme for the Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. So I'm going to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6686	Thank you. Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6687	Dear Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. This bill really rightly bears this mark `E', so that's exactly what it says is that the legislation in this segment is exactly in line with the European laws that are in force there. It is certainly from what is written here and all these regulations that are proposed to have a positive impact on the domain of social and labour rights in public transport, so it is kind of quieted down by this bill or law that we will adopt on the market in the service of road transport. Also, we were just discussing the Transport Safety Act in the first reading. I am convinced that this law is also fully connected and in some ways consistent with what we were just discussing on the road safety. We know that in the tourist season we have large groups, and without it, and beyond the tourist season that come exactly this way to Croatia. It is certainly also clear from the data that are available during the debate on the past point, there are many traffic accidents that relate to precisely such carriers and from the non-compliance with the provisions that are now finally announced and technically processed in terms of the introduction of all these elements from analogue digital tachographs and determining the working time of those who carry passengers or goods on our roads. In the discussion of my colleagues, I have not heard that there are also explanations here on page 4, the sources of the necessary means of law enforcement are explained so that in this year, 2 million kunas are allocated from the state budget, and the budget from the following year provides for spending of around 4 million kunas in order to equip the services and carry out inspection supervision according to this bill. Since this law is actually one of the real European draft laws, I don't think it takes much debate to accept it without great debates. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6688	State Secretary Drazen Breglec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6689	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here I will try very briefly to give an additional clarification on a few of the questions that have been raised during this debate. Here, the question was asked why no obligation was prescribed, the possibility of exemption for buses is prescribed if they are used for internal line transport of passengers on lines up to 50 kilometers away. Therefore, it is mainly local driving, urban driving, means mainly such short-relation transports are carried out by or municipal enterprises of cities, the municipalities for which we can, of course, confirm that this social part of the legislation is mostly positively regulated and as it is too difficult for urban relations, it is certain that the need for, or the possibility of developing some high speeds is definitely excluded so that, in accordance with the directive which provides for the possibility of exemption in this category, we have decided to consolidate this possibility and provide for this law. As regards the new, or costs related to new employment related to the raising of administrative capacity in the implementation of this law, of course we have provided for them, that the budget of the ministry provides sufficient resources for both the pay of inspectors, for their increased number and for their technical equipment, as well as for the reasons of the law and indicated. Also, the suggestion of reporting, i.e. the possible translation of laws, i.e. their reporting at border crossings, particularly with the emphasis on the reporting of carriers from Turkey, is certainly welcome and we will, without delay after the adoption of this law, report through the Turkish Embassy and their carriers who are very well organised, but I must point out here that I am an English translation is not necessarily necessary because this law is in line with what Europe has already absorbed, which already has in its practice, so that for European carriers this is not a novelty, but is also a normal state for non-Europeans, so that, east of Croatia, this will not be a new situation because they are already, already on the roads of the European Union, and will only have to be applied, i.e. Finally, given the importance of the positive context of the debate, I would like to thank the MPs for the support of this bill and also to express their final and final belief that it will contribute to improving the state of transport in general, so in particular to improving the social conditions of mobile workers and finally indirectly and to the safety of road traffic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6690	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to the next point. What? ... Oh, yeah, here's what? [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6691	That's a big apology. I forgot to also express my agreement with the amendments made to the committees, so the Legislative Committee has submitted certain amendments mainly to the new technique and I hereby express that we accept them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6692	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6693	Final proposal of the Working Time Act, Mandatory holidays and mobile workers and recording devices in road transport. It was also an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 41. The debate is closed. The Proposer has adopted amendments to the Committee on Legislatives. They become an integral part of the final draft law and are not voted on. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. Let's vote. The result? I find most of the votes with 112 in favour, 3 abstentions and 1 against this bill. I am voting on the proposal for a conclusion of the Legislative Committee, which reads: "The Professional Service of the Croatian Parliament is hereby authorised to conduct a revision of the text of this law before its publication in the "National Journals". Who's in favor of this conclusion? Please, let's get on with it. Let's vote. The result? I find that most votes with 112 in, four abstentions and nothing against this conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6694	We're going to the next point. - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Taxes, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 44 The legislator is the Government. Amendments to the end of the debate carried out by the Committees on Finance, the State Budget, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on European Integration and Legislatives. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary at the Interior Ministry Ivica Buconjic will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6695	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Taxes has been drawn up by the Ministry of the Interior in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration, the Ministry of Tourism and the Ministry of Finance in order to comply with several laws. This law aligns its provisions with the Law on Foreigners, the Law on Asylum, the Law on Weapons, the Law on Explosive Substances and is laid down by the Implementing Regulations by the Law on Food Activity and the Law on the Provision of Services in Tourism and the Law on Property and Other Rights. The adoption of the law will bring the system of administrative fees in line with the relevant legal instruments of the legal property of the European Union in the field of visas. This law, i.e. the proposal for a law, repeals customs duties in headings 67 to 72, which is highlighted as a need on the one hand under the measures and activities of the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and, on the other, in the context of activities related to the negotiation process for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union in Chapter 29 of the Customs Union. These exemptions, proposed by this Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Taxes, can be classified as personal and relevant. Personal exemptions relate to the release from the payment of administrative fees for victims of trafficking of persons and minors who are granted temporary stay for humanitarian reasons, and to the release of files and actions in the procedure of issuing a personal identity card for foreigners on permanent stay, the identity card for asylum seekers and foreign certificates under subsidiary protection, then in the procedure of issuing documents issued in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the procedure of granting asylum to early and subsidiary protection in the division of weapons of registered weapons held by the Republic of Croatia, legal medicines against foreigners, against the solution for the accommodation of extended accommodations in the reception centre for foreigners and requests for the issue of visas. The most important changes proposed in the tariff of administrative fees are the regulation of administrative fees for issuing a solution to determine the conditions for the provision of catering and tourist services, then an increase in the amount of administrative fees for issuing passports in an urgent procedure, given that these emergency passports have a really large number, are often unwarranted and we believe that the proposed increase in administrative fees will reduce at least these unwarranted passport seekers in an urgent procedure. Following the increase in the amount of administrative duty on applications for the authorisation of the transfer of arms and explosive substances, the provision of the payment of an administrative fee for the authorisation of the establishment of temporary warehouses of explosive substances and the sale of pyrotechnic means. The administrative fees in real estate acquisition proceedings are then in line with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on ownership and other real rights, the uniform administrative fees on applications for all types of visas shall be fixed, customs duties shall be abolished. The financial effects of passing this law will be next. The proposed changes will affect the increase in the State budget in 2008 by €29 million, taking into account the regulation of increased administrative fees in the responsibilities of the Ministry of Tourism, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration and the Ministry of Interior, while the suspension of customs duties is expected to reduce State budget revenues by €40 million in 2008. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6696	Thank you. One notice. The chairman of the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, Zvonimir Mršić, scheduled the Committee's session to continue today at 13:30 at the "Ivana Kukuljevic" hall. The committees? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The HDZ representative's club, the respected representative of Ms. Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6697	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community considered the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Taxes and has no objection to its text or reason to affect its failure to adopt it. Two basic reasons for amending and supplementing this law. The first is to comply with the laws adopted last year, which also regulate this matter, which are the Law on Foreigners and the Asylum Act, which entered into force on 1 January of this year, and the Law on Weapons, which entered into force on 1 September 2007. The second, but no less important reason is the harmonisation of the system of administrative fees with the acquiss of the European Union and, above all, in the area of visas. The proposal to amend the law essentially goes in three directions and this: First, the exemption from the payment of administrative fees. Second, the change and the amount of existing fees. Thirdly, the erasure of customs duties while at the same time harmonising with the laws already passed, the Law on Foreigners and the Asylum Act. A new exemption is introduced from the payment of administrative fees for victims of trafficking in human beings and minors who, due to abandonment or victims of organised crime or for some other reason, have been left without parental protection, custody or without escortship. Furthermore, the exemptions in question relating to the payment of administrative fees in the procedure of issuing documents issued under the provisions of the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on Border Transport and Cooperation shall be introduced. A new provision has also been added to exempt payment of fees to documents and actions in the asylum authorisation process, temporary and subsidiary protection. The owners of registered weapons are exempt from charges when they want to give these weapons to the Republic of Croatia. It also does not pay fees for the submission of legal medicines to foreigners against accommodation solutions and extension of accommodation in the reception centre for foreigners and complaints against decisions on the determination of stricter police supervision at the reception centre as well as solutions on the restriction of the movement of asylum seekers. In the area of visas, exemptions from payment of administrative fees for visas to members of the Croatian citizen's family have been proposed. He thinks of his mate and his children. Then children under 6 years of age, holders of diplomatic and official passports travelling officially and for members of the family of citizens of the European Economic Area. This last release is partly in line with the recommendations and directives of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe. Special exemptions for non-payment have been introduced on visa applications for persons who come to the Republic of Croatia for humanitarian reasons or for cultural, scientific or other cooperation with the country whose nationality they have and if that exemption is proposed by the national authorities of the Republic of Croatia. The part of the draft law amending the existing provisions mainly refers to an increase in the amount of certain administrative fees: for the issue of passports by emergency procedure, for approvals for the transport of arms and explosive substances and for the granting of authorisation for warehouses of explosive and pyrotechnic means. In the field of administrative fees relating to catering and tourism activities, the proposed amendments are primarily due to the harmonisation of the tariff system, the administrative fees with the new Law on catering activities and the Law on the provision of services in tourism, and to the accompanying sublaws. In the third part of the presentation, I will briefly present the draft laws on the erasure of existing customs duties, i.e. tariff numbers from 67 to 72 and 74, which relate to the issue of customs solutions, applications, authorisations, declarations, beliefs and controls, and the procedure for obtaining Croatian citizenship. Those suspensions result from the obligation to implement the Stabilisation, Association Agreement and, on the other hand, the need to carry out activities in the implementation of the negotiations on the accession of Croatia to the European Union in Chapter Customs Union. Deleting heading 78 is the consequence of harmonising this law with the Foreign Law. A stranger cannot start working before he is granted a temporary stay, so the issue of a business permit is a procedure which has been charged under heading 78 too high in this law because it is treated by the Foreigner Act. The Croatian Democratic Community's club proposes that we adopt this law in the text proposed by an emergency procedure because there is no reason nor time for the procedure to be difficult and extended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6698	Thank you. IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6699	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, Your Honor, gentlemen of the Parliament. It's very short. I am clearly opposed to any abnormal punishment proposed and accepted by the Parliament, but here are the administrative fees I do not really seem great. They even shrink to a large extent. So, among other things, in this section where the assessment and the source of the necessary funding with the law is literally said that the implementation of the law in the Amendments and the additions of the Law on Administrative Taxes will affect the increase of the State budget in 2008 by 29 thousand 403 thousand kuna, and the reduction of the revenues of the state budget of 40 million kuna. So there's some imbalance if I'm a good interpretation of 11 million kuna or 10.6 million kuna, it doesn't matter. The second thing I want to say is, when I look at these tariffs in Article 8, I think it would even be opportunized if we almost evened everything equal to a thousand kunas. I think that would be absolutely appropriate except for the services provided in the household. There clearly, you should keep this amount of 100 kuna, but why, for example, one brewery would be burdened with 300 kuna and a night bar with 800 kuna. It's just not rational to me, and the same burden I'm thinking is on whoever opens the pub or that nightclub whether they pay 200, 300, 500 or 1,000 kuna. And so much I even suggest that all these tariffs except for the public services in the household be or amount to thousands of kunas. For example, a kind of coffee shop, coffee bar, brewery, buffet, tavern, cellar 300 kuna, or here the facility, well-simple services in the kiosk, a simple and fast service facility, a simple service facility in a fixed vehicle, etc. 200 kuna. Types of accommodation, resort, hostel, mountain house, hunting home etc. 300 kuna. Camping and camp destination 300 kuna etc. I don't want to pick it up. If someone pays when they are already engaged in such an investment, a thousand or 300 kuna, it is absolutely irrelevant, and yet perhaps in that regard, they could collect some, non-essential but small amount for the state budget that they would later target for some other needs. On the one hand, before we talked about this road safety law. There we have absurd penalties, incomprehensiblely high penalties, and here I see or think that these fees are relatively low. We are even in a series of provisions reducing these fees. I don't think there's much of a need for that, I said because of 200 kuna, no one's going to fail, but if an inspection goes in and you get a fine of 20 or 50 thousand kuna, that's something else. So these other penalties under the Criminal Code and other laws should absolutely be reduced. Finally, if I keep in mind that the zeal of the inspection is far greater in the northwest of Croatia than in the south, then it may even be a political message. So one word I fight for a little more fees, because I repeat 200 kuna is nothing, but on the other hand clearly for far less penalties in the Road Safety Act, etc. for the reasons that these charges are hard to abuse, and discretion can be abused by many. Otherwise, as regards the exemption from payment of fees, they are also designated for certain categories of public authorities, i.e. citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thus, since payment of fees, the Republic of Croatia, institutions of pre-school age, education, science, culture, protection of cultural and natural heritage, health care, social care, disability and similar organisations, citizens whose income including the income of spouses in the past and current year do not exceed the amount of non-taxable income and who do not have other significant assets, real estate, savings, motor vehicles, vessels, whose total value does not exceed 30 thousand kunas, which clearly must be given that written statement, but these 30,000 kunas may be increased to some 50,000 kuna, then they are exempt from paying taxes to the disabled of the Homeland War. I wonder why they are not the same here as the disabled People's Liberation War, then they are freed spouses, children of defenders of the dead and imprisoned and missing in the Homeland War, exiles, refugees, foreign citizens for visa approval, for extended stay in the Republic of Croatia, etc. But it also seems to me that in these laws it's not good to do, let's say, distinctions between people with disabilities, and since these aren't important items, then, in the future, let's say, that remark that I made because I really don't see why the disabled of the Homeland War would be free from paying this fee, I think it's okay, but I don't see why we wouldn't be as disabled as well, say World War II, free from paying these taxes. All in all, the law is correct, even going to the hands of many. Let's say, even though if there were a slightly larger fee in some of these, as I would call it, the kind of activity that opens up would never fall on anyone's head hair.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6700	Thank you. An individual debate. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. She's gone, she's losing her word. Representative Nenad Stazic. Also, he's gone, he's losing his word. Representative Mr Ante Kulušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6701	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Taxes shows that the co-ordinated work of the State administration body is important. Well-designed solutions in different ways can affect the quality of life and work. The safety of citizens is the priority of every country. The government of the Republic of Croatia contributes to the achievement of this objective in various ways to a well-designed and comprehensive policy. Thus, these amendments and additions to the Law on Administrative Taxes are enhanced by the introduction of arms charges relating to the storage of explosive substances and by the increase of charges relating to the transport of weapons and explosive substances. In accordance with the provisions of the new Foreigners Act, these amendments to the Law on Administrative Taxes impose duties on temporary residence applications, an administrative fee for all types of visas is additionally arranged, given that the late applications for issuing visas create additional costs for diplomatic missions or consular offices of the Republic of Croatia, a specific amount of fees for the early issue of visas shall be determined. These amendments and additions to the Tax Act also bring about the suspension of a type of fee which is not incentivised in the new conditions of the entry of the Republic of Croatia into international integration, as it complicates international exchange. It is a matter of abolishing the administrative fees charged by the customs administration for the records and actions of its own part. Something new is being introduced, something old is being abolished, and the individual and overall effect is certainly positive and gives quality improvements in the system of administrative fees which deserves the support of parliamentary representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6702	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6703	Fourth. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on administrative fees. It was also an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 44. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to be made aware of the amendment. State Secretary Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6704	Thank you very much. The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6705	Thank you very much. The amendment has been accepted and becomes an integral part of the final draft law. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. Let's vote. The result? I find that most of the vote with 107 votes in favour of, 3 abstentions, nothing against accepting the final proposal of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6706	Let's go to the next one. - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials of State, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 38 The Proposer of the Law is the Government. When establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of this law. Amendments to the end of the debate by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System and the Committee on Legislatives. You received the reports at the session. Deputy Secretary of State of the Central State Administration, Mr Pavle Matičić will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6707	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Obligations and Rights of State officials essentially contains one amendment and one amendment. Namely, the State Officials Act stipulates that on the day of the government's duties following the first parliamentary elections, the position of the ministry's secretary, the director of the ministry, Deputy Secretary of Government, the Head of the Government's Office, Deputy State Secretary, Deputy and Assistant Director of State Administration Organisations, they become the jobs of state officials. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants provides for coefficients on the complexity of the business of civil servants appointed to these posts, and these positions should be deleted from the Law on the Obligations and Rights of State officials, as well as their obligations, rights and responsibilities as well as the method of calculating wages, and other material rights prescribed by other laws. Secondly, the Law on the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities is prescribed that the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities and his deputies are officials of the Republic of Croatia and are appointed in time of 8 years and can be re-appointed. Since the Ombudsmans for persons with disabilities are his deputies of the Republic of Croatia it is necessary to supplement Articles 1 and 12. The Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials in such a way that the Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities and Deputy Advocates for Persons with Disabilities is established as state officials, or that they are determined by the coefficients for the calculation of wages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6708	Thank you. The committees? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. SDP advocates' club, Ms. Vesna Škulic. She's gone, the club's losing its word. The HDZ representative club, Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6709	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy. So here I think almost everything is said, but just a few words about why this law even happened, or what preceded it. In fact, the expertise in the authorities of the state administration has already become quite questionable not because of these people working there but because of the coefficients and wages they receive there, and in addition to that, the safety of the workplace and we know, let's remember the big cleanup in 2000 when almost everything was changed that was being replaced by the ministries. Part of state officials has been transferred to state officials. In this way, they were assured of the continuity of their work, so we are now guarding the experts we have because each shift clearly brings new people who, while stalking, spends a lot of time. Here, we know that the secretaries of the ministries, the directors of the ministries, the Deputy Secretary of Government, the head of the Government's Office, the Deputy Secretary of State of the Central State, the assistant director of the State Administration, are becoming administrative organisations, so it becomes the jobs of state officials, and therefore the rights that they had as state officials cease. The ministerial assistants' positions have already been abolished, so they become directors. For the purposes of calculating the salaries of those officials, until the entry into force of the special law, the coefficients of complexity of the business of civil servants are prescribed. In this way, those officials are deleted from the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials and are no longer subject to all rights and obligations other than the Law on Conflict of Interest and the like. As with all the defenders, so and yet a relatively newly established Ombudsman for persons with disabilities and his deputy officials are appointed as state officials, so they become state officials and are made mandatory, they are determined to be paid. Here, I think this law, that we actually contribute to the arrangement of relations within the state service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6710	Thank you. IDS representative club Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6711	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. This is clearly a short bill. De facto we're introducing another state official by that code, actually more like a lawyer for people with disabilities and their deputies. They are at a coefficient of 5.27 as well as representatives, i.e. The deputies are at a coefficient of 4.26. I personally believe that officials should be only the President of the Republic of Croatia, the President and Vice-Presidents of the Assembly, MPs, presidents, vice-presidents and members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as a clear minister, president and members of the Constitutional Court, chief state inspector, chief state auditor with deputies, public defender. All other defenders should be integrated into the Ombudsman. They should clearly be chief state auditors, and that's about it. Clearly, there is no governor of the Croatian National Bank, but I guess that's settled by a special law. Everything else needs to be deleted from this Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials of the State. The Secretary of the Croatian Parliament and the Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the Secretary-General of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, and the Secretary-General of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia and the Deputy Secretary of the Croatian Parliament, and all State Secretarys, should be deleted, so that I do not add up now. So the official should be the one with the electoral legitimacy. The one who doesn't have it, the one who doesn't have electoral legitimacy, has nothing to be an official. It is clear that members of the Constitutional Court must be, a state auditor too, members of the government but some secretary of state, the director of an administrative organisation, has nothing to ask among officials. It may be my own personal opinion, and that is, in some ways, the Ombudsman for people with disabilities. Far from giving these people the maximum attention. However, I personally hold that place, meaning counsel with personal disability, as well as the one dealing with gender equality and the Ombudsman for children, should be subdued by an attorney general as his deputy, or as we would say under the Ombudsman as we once spoke. Anyone who is in the ruling coalition and remembers an attorney, that status if in the coalition is powerful enough over time and established. I personally believe that this is unnecessary, that Croatia is not Sweden and should have some kind of partnership as it is somewhat regulated in other or third countries. I am deeply convinced that by any chance the party of the pensioners had a slightly stronger election position so that today we, parallel to this post or by amending the law in this part of the de facto, would integrate the Ombudsman for the pensioners. So, in one word, I'm not against the government leading one responsible policy towards the pensioners, I'm not that the pensioners have their attorney but as deputy attorney general. It is also not a problem for me in Croatia that the number one defence attorney for disabled persons is clearly competent and that, as I said before, the disabled are, for example, the Homeland War and the People's Liberation War, or vice versa. As far as the coefficients are concerned, this defendant has a coefficient of 5.27. It's a representative coefficient. It is clear that this Ombudsman’s position is incomparably a more privileged place than the MPs. If nothing else has an office, has a car, has cards, has a team, has a secretary more or less handsome, journals etc., everything that citizens think they have and they don't actually have. Also, I think that at those times we should also speak openly. For the finale, I once again advocate that the official be the one who is directly elected, means who has this directly elected legitimacy. It is clear that I advocate that MPs be elected directly as mayors, mayors, captains. Why not? If that were to happen, I claim that opportunities in this country would change with a column, for 180 degrees I want to believe for the better if everyone knows who they choose. If someone was directly elected then he would certainly have a very different position towards the citizens and the public and not that the MPs were permanent on the wallpaper as it happened recently for the prices we have in the restaurant. I will not say that we have the most expensive cafeteria in the Republic of Croatia but surely five times more expensive than on Croatian radio and it would be also convenient to see how many hundreds of people on such a single media receive more salaries than ministers. But that's why I'm only saying it so I can rebel against the fact that now journalists are going to pay 5 kuna more expensive marenda or lunch at a Parliament restaurant than the MPs are going to. While they were paying 50% less price, I didn't object, but I kept quiet, let them, but now that they're going to pay 5 kuna more expensive than the MPs I object to that practice. All in all, I personally believe that we need the Ombudsman for people with disabilities, but not as a self-resor, but as part of a civil defender. I think that this way, the attorney general might act more easily and fully when he has one specific weight in society anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6712	Thank you. HDSSB club Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6713	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here, Mr. Cain, somehow, always comes to my attention, and we're not agreeing, he talked about that there really is one inflation I would say state officials like the obvious inflation of food prices, such as the increase in inflation of the number of people who go beyond containers to containers and the number of government officials or the way they could say to frame themselves in that number that would be let me say objective as Mr. Cain suggests. However, when it comes to the Ombudsman for people with disabilities, then he mentions my predecessor, so the disabled of the Homeland War, the disabled People's Liberation War or the People's Liberation War. But he doesn't mention disabled workers. And right in that segment there is, so one, I'd say medical indication for acting as counsel for disabled persons. We are well aware that disabled workers have been expelled from that name of pension insurance of the Republic of Croatia and are now called pension insurance of the Republic of Croatia. It used to be called pension disability insurance of the Republic of Croatia, somewhere in '98. A year. Since then, the fight has been fought, clearly by democratic methods and all other administrative procedures for disabled workers to regain their rights or part of their rights in relation to others. That's why I think it makes sense, even though I'm not into inflationing the number of government officials, but in any case, it makes sense, therefore, to set up or open a defence seat for people with disabilities. I say, though, when we look at this table in this bill and when they're numbered here in the text, so the provisions and the applicable law of officials within the meaning of this law and when we look at the number, so there are no numbers there, so we really see that it's one large, large number. And as Mr. Cain said, that the pensioners had probably achieved a better election result and had more perhaps MPs here might be looking for a counselor for the pensioners. But here, I made coffee this morning before I left, and I couldn't, and it's hard for me to pour coffee with my left hand that's from a jazz that's for right-handed people, so I don't know if we're going to be looking for a left-handed lawyer soon, because they're really decommissioned in this society, so we're going to think about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6714	Thank you. An individual debate. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. She's gone. He's losing his word. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6715	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Two are the characteristics of this vast legal proposal. First, ministerial assistants cease to be officials, so they are logically thrown out of this law. They're now clerks, top of the book career. The characteristics are that they came with politics, but politics won't go away. They did not become officials by making progress in the civil apparatus, but as political persons because they were appointed there as assistants. And now that they stop being officials, i.e. stopped being officials now remain at the top of that civil society structure. That way, that law is essentially unfair. According to who? According to everyone else in the clerk's office who didn't make that kind of progress, who didn't come with politics, and then stay cemented as a waist. Everyone else had to slowly advance the stairs down the stairs, prove themselves in their business. These don't. For them, the most important thing is that they belonged to one political option. It's their political belonging that brought them to the top of that machine. The second essential feature of this law is to introduce a defense attorney for the disabled. No matter what we've got, we've got a lot of these attorneys and we've been piling up these office functions, I think that's good. I think it's good, but I don't envy the person who's going to be appointed to that duty. The Attorney General for Persons with Disabilities will have a lot of work to do. Because our country, unfortunately, treats people with disabilities differently and I dare say the most unfair possible way in view of the origin of disability. In a completely different status are the disabled of World War II, the disabled of the Homeland War as disabled persons, and then disabled workers or disabled persons from birth. When you take what it is, you take a group of blind and weak-sighted people, then you see that the blinding fee for a civilian disabled is about 400 kuna, in a disabled Homeland War, several thousand kunas. But a blind person regardless of the origin of disability has the same needs regardless of how he lost his sight. It's one of the most difficult forms of disability. People who have lost sight of many jobs cannot do themselves, they need someone else's help. They need to get different aids that make life easier for them. The one with the 400 kuna disability cannot afford it and thus remains suspended. It is also sad that I am even a legislator without the help of a future Ombudsman for people with disabilities who do not see and investigate, at least gradually, and at least to ease that injustice. Because being unfair, different from treating people with disabilities, there's no excuse for that. It can only be spite, defiance or lack of understanding of the problem. If misunderstanding is a problem, it's still kind of easy. Then we can hope that if we are the legislator or the prime minister of the government, we will keep on talking about this, that he will understand the problem. That they will understand it and that all disabled people, regardless of the origin of their disability, will treat it equally. That's why I support this introduction of a lawyer for people with disabilities, but as I say, I don't envy that person. It is up to all of us to make this obvious injustice in society right, us here as a legislative body. And I expect the new Attorney General or the Attorney General to immediately ask the Government for a new law and equalising the position of all persons with disabilities, if he or she, who gets elected, then there's no point in introducing that office by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6716	Mr. Representative Ivo Grbić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6717	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed deputy secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning of my debate, I would support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials of State. In recent proceedings, we had the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Servants which, among other things, we also prescribed the coefficients of complexity of the tasks of civil servants appointed to the posts of the secretaries of the ministries, directors of the ministries, Deputy Secretary of Government, Head of the Office of Government, Deputy State Secretary of State of State and Deputy and Assistant Director of State Administration. Given that the above positions have become the jobs of civil servants, while the ministerial assistant positions have been abolished. It is precisely because of this proposal for this Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials of State, that it is prescribed to delete from the list of state officials so far the positions of officials who have lost the status of state officials and the current positions of ministerial assistants who are being abolished as well as the erasure of the prescribed coefficients for calculating their salaries. In view of the fact that the Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities and his deputies are state officials of the Republic of Croatia who protect, monitor and promote the rights and interests of persons with disabilities under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, international contracts and laws, the proposal of this law, the new civil servants shall also become the Advocate for Persons with Disabilities and his deputies, which shall be provided for in Article 4. The Law on the Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities appoints and resolves the Croatian Assembly on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and on the proposal of the Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities at the time of 8 years. Following the above, it is also proposed to supplement Article 12 of the Law in a way that determines the coefficient for the calculation of the lawyer’s salaries for persons with disabilities and his deputies at the level of the coefficients of the complexity of jobs as well as for the calculation of the pay of the Ombudsman for children and his deputies and his lawyers for gender equality and his deputies, which in my view is quite justified and logical. In line with the above, I support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials of State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6718	Thank you. Mr. Representative Vedran Rozic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6719	Respect, Mr. Vice President, Deputy Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The draft law of the current list of state officials deletes the Deputy Secretary of State of the Republic of Croatia, the Assistant Ministers, the Secretaries of the Ministry of State, the Deputy Secretary of State in the central state offices, the Deputys and Assistant Directors of State Administration Organisations and the Head of Government of the Republic of Croatia, and adds new state officials, lawyers for persons with disabilities and his deputies. In particular, as new officials, only the Advocate-General for Persons with Disabilities and his deputies shall be designated as the new officials, while the current positions of officials in accordance with Article 151 are deleted from the list of state officials. The law on civil servants as it becomes the jobs of civil servants, while the ministerial assistants' position is lifted. Furthermore, in view of the provision of Article 151a of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants, it is provided that, until the entry into force of a special law governing salaries and other material rights of civil servants, the salaries of civil servants appointed to the posts referred to in Article 151 of Regulation (EC) No 151/2006, the specified coefficients of the staff of the work appointed to the posts referred to in Article 151(1) of that Regulation shall be determined. Law on civil servants, which will be used to calculate the salaries of those officials until the entry into force of a special law governing salaries and other material rights of civil servants. The same must be deleted from the provisions of Article 12. The Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials of State. This proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials provides for the addition of Article 12 of the Law in question in such a way as to supplement the coefficients laid down for the calculation of the salary of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities and their deputies. The proposed coefficient shall be for the Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities and his alternates in the level of the staff coefficients, jobs for the calculation of salaries by the Advocate General for Children and his Deputys and the Advocates for Gender Equality and His Deputys. And the basic reasons under which the Law is adopted under the urgent procedure of Article 2(2). The Law on the Advocate General of Persons with Disabilities prescribed that the Ombudsman protects, rights and promotes the rights and interests of persons with disabilities under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, international contracts and laws ensure the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms of persons with disabilities, reports the public of infringements of the rights of persons with disabilities and takes action to prevent them. It is obvious that because of the importance of matter, there are particularly reasonable reasons for these amendments and for supplementing the law to be adopted by an urgent procedure. I therefore support this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6720	Thank you. Mr. Representative Damir Sesvečan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6721	Mr. Vice President, Deputy Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So we have before us the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials in Emergency Procedure. It is therefore very short interventions in the law that are necessary, given that certain laws which determine the status of civil servants, or government officials, have changed, so it is necessary to regulate their obligations and rights. The 2005 civil servants' law has made some of the positions of state officials the jobs of civil servants, some of which have been abolished. Thus, the post of Assistant Minister for State Servants was abolished on the day of entry into office of the new Government of the Republic of Croatia on 12 January of this year, becoming the current officials, such as the secretary of the ministry, the director of ministries, the deputy secretary of the government's office, Deputy State Secretary of the Central State Office and Deputy Director of State Administration. For these reasons, those civil servants need to be deleted from this law as proposed, but are added as new officials under the provisions of the Advocates' Law for Persons with Disabilities, Advocates for Persons with Disabilities and their Deputys. Therefore, in accordance with the amendments set out in the list of officials that are within the meaning of this law, which are listed in Article 1 of this Law, it is also proposed to amend Article 12 concerning the establishment of the salaries of officials. on the basis of the salary calculation and the coefficients for the calculation of the employee's salary. Former officials who have become civil servants are deleted, and the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities with the intended coefficient of 5,27 and its deputy with a coefficient of 4.26 are added. It should be said that the coefficient of 5.27 among other officials at the level of the Croatian Parliament's representatives is at the level of the State Secretary, the Chief State Inspector, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Government and the Assembly, the Advocate General for Child Equality and the Advocate General for Gender Equality, and the coefficient 4.26 is at the level of the Deputy Advocate for Children and the Deputy Advocate for Gender Equality, which is justified in any case. Therefore, given that this law actually updates the list of state officials, and hence their obligations and rights during the conduct of their duties, I will support the adoption of this law and the urgent procedure proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6722	Thank you. Mr. Representative Vladimir Ivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6723	Dear Vice President, Deputy Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials, with the Final Proposal of the Law. In previous exhibitions, we have heard that the diversity of attitudes around the very way in which government officials, or civil servants, come to their jobs. The fact is that, before the election, one of the dilemmas was finally resolved, which is that the Law on the takeover of power in some way and the package of these laws regulated the area of uncertainty after the state elections were held, who stayed and who not at the workplace. There were also claims that the jobs of officials would turn out to be coming and going with politics. On the contrary, we are witnessing these days to fill the jobs of civil servants, the rank of former assistant ministers now director of public procurement. So, before the elections, there was a political consensus, after the elections, of course, that one who did not win the majority is trying to plant and say that the political key fills places. The fact is that this law is a continuation of the path to one, the professionalisation of civil servants, by the fact that they are competitions and that the mandates do not match the elections but is a five-year term, which is generally defined as a mandate that always takes place in the period of another political set that wins power. Of course, under two such changes they bring and continue the way towards that depolitisation of civil servants, but also the abolition of this uncertainty of who remains and who not after the elections have been made. In addition to the fact that this law defines the receipts of some of them, i.e. when receiving them to officials so far, it defines and completes the award of government officials who, by special laws, have obtained the status of state officials and thus this Ombudsman for persons with disabilities and his deputy. In any case, in my opinion, this merits the status of a state official. Namely, since the Ombudsman for people with disabilities and its introduction into the ranks of other lawyers in any case is also the recognition of both the state and the politics and the authorities of the problems that disabled persons have sensitivity to these problems and, of course, an attempt to help solve their specific problems. So far, various types of people with disabilities have been mentioned, including disabled workers who may be sensitive. Namely, very disabled workers do not have the protection they should have from their employers, and of course it also contributes to employers' behaviour, but also this status of the Ombudsman will help to solve their specific problems in any case. If nothing else, depolitisation itself, the very safety of officials, and the possibility of affecting the problems of disabled people, all disabled people and people with disabilities deserve to be supported by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6724	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6725	The political consensus on this issue never existed. When the Law on civil servants changed, we clearly pointed out the problem we are talking about here today. There was a political consensus on the adoption of the Law on the handover of authorities as it is already called. That's what the consensus was about. But this is an act of law. The logic of the Law on the takeover of power is very clear. The one who comes with politics, the one with politics and leaves. It's very simple. Just so shifts don't go deep into some kind of clerk's apparatus. Why is this an act of law? Well, because some of them came with politics, and when they leave, they won't leave because they're protected by becoming servants. You're talking about public procurement to be held now. When they are spent, we will check the number of ministerial assistants who have been officials and who have come with politics, how many have been elected to new posts. And then we can talk about whether these tenders are entirely fair and whether they give everyone equal terms. But he who did not grow up in a clerk's apparatus, who did not start from the beginning as an intern and who did not by his expertise, by his pawn, came to the post of assistant minister, but was appointed to this, was in a privileged position compared to all those who patiently, patiently, had been building their careers for years.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6726	Replication response. Mr. Representative Vladimir Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6727	I said, and I repeat, the consensus existed on the takeover of power. This is a package of laws that regulates the takeover of power, so it is not disputed that Mr. Stazic is trying to politicise in a way that says: and what if they were to win the election. So before the election, it was not disputed that the way and procedure that was set for the appointment of officials in public tenders was not disputed, and now it is trying to dispute. So, according to the competitions, and the procedures are still going on, so you can see how many professional people who work in the state administration fill the seats of leading people in state services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6728	Final review. Deputy Secretary of State Mr. Pavle Maticic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6729	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I would just like to stress first that by amending and supplementing this law, we are just finishing or rounding up legislative activities related to depolitisation and professionalisation in the state administration. So in the debates so far, we have passed the Law on civil servants, the Law on the Handover of Government, the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interests, and now, in fact, this process that is related to depolitisation and professionalisation in the state administration ends. So I think that the previous government is also, and this government has been very restrictively going towards the system of politicisation, since only ministers and state secretaries remain political functions in the system, and all other functions in the position of the state administration are professionals. And another as far as the defense attorneys are concerned. This law does not introduce itself because the Law on the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities has already been introduced, the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities has been introduced, it has been found that he is an official. In fact, this law lays down only the coefficient for the calculation of the salary by comparing its coefficient with the coefficients already established for other defenders of the same complexity of the transactions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6730	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6731	We're going to the fifth point. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials of State. It was also an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 38. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. Let's vote. The result? I find most votes with 83 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 30 against the final proposal of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6732	The next item will be skipped, and this is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Double-For-For Export Act, because in 13.30, the Committee on Economy has a session. He didn't have a discussion. So we will move to - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Waste Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 48. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debates carried out by the Committees on European Integration, legislation, local and regional self-government, the Committee on Environmental Protection. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Environmental Protection. You received reports from the board at the session. Proposer representative, State Secretary at the Ministry of Protection, the environment, spatial arrangement, Nikola Ruzhinski will further explain the bill. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6733	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I would like to say a few words about these amendments to the Waste Act with the Final Bill. After the entry into force of the Environmental Protection Act adopted in 2007, certain discrepancies of certain provisions of these two laws were observed, i.e. we knew that they would come into existence and therefore we needed to adopt these amendments and amendments to the Waste Act. In addition, following the entry into force of the Waste Act, a number of specific rules have been adopted, in particular on the treatment of certain categories of waste, but a new Law on local regional self-government has been adopted and there have been some changes. There are, therefore, several reasons why this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Waste Act should be adopted. First of all, it is as I said to comply with the provisions of the Environmental Protection Act as regards one part of the names of strategic and planning documents adopted under the Waste Act, but are particularly laid down in the Environmental Protection Act. In addition, the transfer of responsibilities in administrative matters and the execution of all other administrative and irregular affairs has been governed by the Environmental Protection Act and the jurisdiction of the Office of State Administration in the counties is transferred to administrative departments of competent environmental protection in the counties and the City of Zagreb. One of the very important parts of the Environmental Protection Act is the issue of data processing and delivery into a new united information system, in the register of environmental pollutants, which puts that famous polluter cadastre, the waste cadastre ceases to be valid and the Environment Protection Agency is determined to take all further care of data collection, data processing and links with the European Environment Protection Agency. What is extremely important is that it is harmonising with European Union rules in the process of approximation, which is to clarify certain concepts and complement existing legal solutions for the management of municipal waste, for the management of construction and specific types of waste. Therefore, in order to create a clearer legislative basis for the effective implementation of the larger number of documents that we have brought in the meantime. Therefore, they are prescribed among other obligations, the delivery of data relating to waste management as an extremely important and significant measure. The second thing is that the whole chain responsible for waste management is prescribed for certain relationships, so that waste collectors are linked to taking waste from producers, handing over waste to an authorised person for recovery, processing or care. And special provisions are, for example, for manufacturers who place dangerous substances on the market, dealing with the disposal of packaging waste. The second basis of this law for the adoption and determination by the provisions of the Criminal Code which may not be so clearly drawn up, but a distinction has been made between a natural person and a natural person of a craftsman in criminal provisions and in other parts. And what I said at the outset is that it is a harmonisation with the Law on Local Regional Self-Government, where, in addition to the transfer of competence to local regional self-government units in matters of protection and in order to comply with duties and responsible persons, where due to the direct election of mayors and mayors of the municipality from previously prescribed duties to the Headship, they are transferred to these new officials. And here, in this law, we have deadlines for the fulfilment of certain laws relating to the Waste Act, such as the setting of the deadline for the execution of the obligation to determine the building of a local self-government unit for storage, recovery, the disposal of construction waste, which is of interest to the Republic of Croatia. So it's about harmonising the law. It is not about new provisions, but all that was necessary to comply with existing laws, clarifications and obligations that arise regarding the commitment to join the European Union. Here's how much I'd like, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6734	Thank you. The debate was conducted by the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Law, the Committee on Local and Regional Administration, the Committee on Environmental Protection. Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? Mrs. Holly. It's the Environmental Protection Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6735	Thank you. At the first session held on 25 April 2008, the Committee on Environmental Protection of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Waste Act with the final proposal for a law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 10 April 2008 with a proposal to comply with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall adopt the proposed law by an urgent procedure. On the basis of its competence as set out in Article 84a of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Environmental Protection Committee discussed the final draft law as the home working body. In its opening statement, the applicant's representative pointed out that this law is one of the rules for the adoption of which is to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the European Union's legislation. It is pointed out that the adoption of the proposed amendments and additions to the Waste Act will comply with the provisions of the Environmental Act, the Criminal Law and the Law on local and regional and regional self-government. In a discussion on the dynamics of the adoption of regulations that regulate the environmental protection problem and the adoption of three amendments to the Waste Act over the past four years, the opinion was also given that the creation of the Environmental Protection Act as a roof law and then the Waste Act should first be accessed. Also in the debate, the applicant requested information on the activities carried out in connection with the opening of negotiations in Chapter 27. - Environment. After the debate was held, the committee decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Waste Act, together with the next amendment, to the majority of votes, 8 for, 3 votes against. It's an amendment. In Article 50, Article 90(7) is amended as follows: "7. In their spatial planning documents, they did not determine the location for the construction of buildings intended for storage, recovery and disposal of waste Article 21(2).". Explanation. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6736	Thank you. We're going to a club debate. It's the first club of the SDP, the esteemed representative of Mirela Holy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6737	At the very beginning of the presentation on the proposed amendments to the Waste Act, I would like to say that the Club of Representatives of the SDP will not support this bill. There are several reasons why we will not vote to accept this proposal. First of all, on this bill as well as on some others who are included in the agenda of this session, the label of the so-called Parliament has been glued. The European law seeks to justify the urgency of the procedure for the adoption of this law, i.e. the merger of first and second readings. These amendments and additions to the existing Waste Act, which I recall, were voted during the last term of office of Ivo Sanader, more precisely in 2004, and then for the first time amended in 2006, and then in 2007 and only two and three years later, cannot be undermined under the title of harmonisation with the EU acquis. Because the proposer of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction, ultimately and only in the light of the text of the proposal of this law, speaks of the necessity of harmonising the Law on Waste with, in the meantime, the Law on Environmental Protection, the Criminal Law and the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government as well as, in the meantime, the strategic and planning documents, or the 2005 waste management strategy, as well as the 2007 waste management plan, rather than the harmonisation with the European Union directives, as is present in the Air Protection Act. Of course, the question immediately arises as to why, in previous amendments to the 2006 and 2007 Waste Act, the Law is already not in line with those strategic and planning documents, and since it is obviously the usual practice of this Government to write strategies and plans that do not comply with the applicable laws. We can discuss why the previous HDZ government needed so much time to write and release into the parliamentary procedure the roof law on this area of the Environmental Protection Act, which, contrary to the obligation to be voted on in 2005 in the Parliament, was only considered and finally adopted in 2007. The logic of the legislative process would mean that first, according to the acquis, the EU's roof laws in a given area are changed and voted, here in particular in the field of environmental protection, and that only then they are written and passed sectoral laws that need to be complied with by the roof law. In that case, we would not discuss in parliament every year the same laws, in this case the Waste Act that we are harmonising with the legal acquis of the EU every year, 2004, 2007, 2006, and here again in 2008, that is, the fourth time. This certainly indicates that the proponent is obviously unable to produce a legal document allegedly in line with EU directives that will be in place without correction for at least four years for the duration of a parliamentary cycle in Croatia. If this law were to go to a regular congregation procedure or two readings, it could be longer than it has ever been. It should also be noted that the European Union is currently preparing a new framework guideline on waste to be adopted by the end of 2008 and, in line with these changes in the accession process, will have to amend our Waste Act that we are now discussing. As a result of the above-mentioned amendment to the applicable Waste Act, it is particularly unnecessary at this point. We therefore believe in the SDP that there is no reason why it is necessary to push for an emergency procedure which, in the case of this law, is quite clear and to which his fate so far has not been justified. Another reason why we will not support this law is its non-transparency in relation to the procedure for the adoption and implementation of sub-legislative documents. In this regard, the proposer in the introductory part states that several implementing rules, several regulations and several regulations have been adopted under the Waste Act over the past two years, and lists several sublegal documents and proudly concludes that their successful application also requires that certain existing ambiguities be removed in the law. In this extremely self-satisfactory explanation, there is no mention of it, and we can assume that this is not an accident of the Regulation on packaging and packaging waste that has accumulated a worrying 302 million kuna in the field of care management since 2006 or in the beginning of implementation, meaning the loss of five packagings. Although the Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund, which is responsible for implementing this and some other regulations in this area, interprets this loss as paying the compensation to citizens for founding packaging waste before the regulation was adopted and may be considered a reasonable argument for 2006 or the loss incurred in that year, the fact is that the loss of the fund in this area grew enormously even in 2007 when all packaging was already paid on the Croatian market. This, of course, says that the surplus packaging has come beyond Croatia's borders. In addition, the reason for the regulation was... packaging waste as very valuable secondary raw materials, which is why the state has co-financed and subsidized the construction of a bottle factory in a bottle of BBS in Podruts with more than 4.5m euros. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today, the plant places 12 tonnes of new five bottles of regrets on the market and the rest of the five raw materials purchased on the external markets, with a single profit of 450 euros per tonne. I therefore ask why the fund itself does not sell five packagings in the external markets and thus generates profits for the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and since it is obvious from the implementation that the use of waste is not the real objective of the Regulation. We ask what funds will cover the loss of the 302 million kuna fund that has been created by cleaning out packaging in Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina and concerns that the losses resulting from the implementation of the Regulation on packaging waste continue to grow. The third reason why we will not support the adoption of this law is the lack of vision, giving up the waste management system as an extremely valuable resource, or accepting the waste management model through incineration. It is unfortunate that the Government has done nothing more effectively to address the biggest environmental problem in the Republic of Croatia and this is inadequate waste management. As is well known most of the existing waste dumps in Croatia do not meet the standards of environmental protection and most of them are in the process of recovery or are soon going into recovery. And that's good. But it is not good that it seems very small in the construction of regional waste management centres, which is the vision of addressing the waste problem in the 2005 Parliament of the adopted Waste Management Strategy. In other words, the proposed amendments to this law are contrary to the applicable National Waste Management Strategy and to the previous Waste Management Act because the proposed changes do not respect the waste management hierarchy in four steps, i.e. the prevention of waste generation, reuse, material recovery and only at the end of energy recovery or other types of waste treatment prior to the final disposal of that residual inert waste. It worries that these amendments to the law are being passed in order to increase and facilitate the possibility of building a municipal waste burner, which is contrary to the waste management hierarchy. Therefore, such changes go hand in hand, so-called. the burning lobby that advocates the construction of a burner plant in order to easily achieve profits, i.e. these changes are contrary to the promotion of prevention and reduction of waste generation by European directives and standards. These amendments to the Waste Act do not go in the positive direction of establishing an efficient waste management system, but the law follows the logic of taking care of other words of waste burning. The law seems to have given up the waste management centre and, contrary to the waste management strategy, it speaks of urban and municipal recycling courtyards that are, in fact, the collection sites of rehabilitating waste left to the mercy and mercy of the conscience of each individual citizen. Thus, Article 15 provides for the obligation of cities and municipalities to establish recycling yards for waste disposal. However, it is not intended to establish such a courtyard for a certain number of inhabitants, so it is not defined whether there should be a recycling yard in every 10,000 inhabitants, to fewer or more inhabitants. We believe that the obligation should be made for municipalities and cities to place separate waste collection tanks in several places and, instead of existing containers for mixed waste or at least together with them, and that it is necessary to prescribe penalties for those who place unclassified waste in such containers. In these amendments, the recycling of municipal waste is not well arranged and secured properly. The current situation is that there are not enough tanks for separate collection of even paper and glass, and in many places there are no more containers for collecting plastic packaging that are not being bought and which have been before. We therefore conclude that the provisions on recycling courtyards are pro-forme rather than real. We believe that the law should define the general obligation of municipalities and cities in accordance with which the rate of recovery of municipal waste in the area of a particular municipality or city should not be less than the average of the European Union and set a transitional deadline for adaptation. The law does not regulate the obligation to use the environment for the most acceptable, state-of-the-art thermal waste treatment technologies, which opens up a huge space for manipulation and quick profits to various speculators. Because of everything previously said, we believe that the solutions that offer these amendments to the Waste Act must not be at all the only ambition of the administration to address this biggest environmental problem in Croatia and therefore the proposed amendments to the law cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6738	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6739	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State. Well, here's just a few words. Namely, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Waste Act with the Final Proposal for the Law is in line with the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union, and I see nothing controversial here. A waste management strategy was adopted after the adoption of the Waste Act 2005. Two years later, a waste management plan and a series of regulations and regulations were adopted. Now, probably for the opposition, all expectations of the legislator have been exceeded. Croatia has become a country with a much cleaner environment and where it is fortunate that it was done four years or five years before, so our beautiful one would be much cleaner. Entrepreneurial spread just as much as with waste. Here, I can say that right in the city of St. Sunday we have entrepreneurs who collect and e-waste, collect also five packagings and do business well. And there's no reason if it's a bait for everyone else to have normal conditions, they start doing that activity and get rich. Therefore, it is not an activity reserved only for some. We know that the model for the collection of useful waste has taken an interest in many other countries, and regardless of the costs, it should be very supportive. So, the bottle has already been collected to count to billions. No more, in nature there are no autogums, no electronic waste, old cars with the help of the local community, and even here with us and the tourist community we managed to remove not only from the roads, but also from the courtyard. Problem, the only problem I'm seeing here is weak control from a waste buyout. Namely, it disappears valuable, secondary raw materials disappear, and they are the ones in the form of copper gutters. Namely, tonight he's from one of our parishes from the church are picked up gutters, copper gutters. They disappear in all the streets of the grid, so bars on the shafts, which has certainly contributed to the uncertainty of driving because it is obvious that control needs to be tightened in the redeemer. Namely, I don't know to what extent the regulation was passed. But I think any of those who sell to purchasers of secondary raw materials would have to leave their personal data and there in some way control who could have brought in 50 bars, heavy bars from the shafts. In fact, there's no such thing as waste. Therefore, it can only be stolen. We can advise all those who put copper gutters on something cheap, etc. But my God, you have in some, the guards insist sometimes on that, so that's how it's done. We see here that local communities play a big role. So, the city, cities, municipalities, normal and county, that the county must coordinate what is normal is its waste management plan with the Republic of Croatia, cities and municipalities with the county and it is good that here is the mayor and municipal chief that they are obliged to submit once a year to the city council, i.e. the municipal council a report on the implementation of the plans. Namely, the waste management plans were all required to do and that's good. As far as the recycling yard is concerned, it may well be needed according to the number of inhabitants. All right, there's big cities, small towns, small municipalities. But I think it's in the interest of both cities and municipalities to make recycling courtyards, to sort out as much as possible. But there's quite a problem. In practice, I know that we had to put up a guard service almost day and day. All cities and municipalities that are in the suburbs of a big city like us in the suburbs of the city of Zagreb are really exposed to all possible, bringing, disposal of waste, illegal waste, so that we have enormous problems and maintaining environmental protection. But it's not just us. It happens elsewhere. So you need to work, work very hard to prevent. People need to take action with people again regardless of what it was called “Beautiful Our Croatia” or whatever. But people have to understand that waste is not only damage, it's also ugly. We want to be a tourist country, so that's what matters. A lot of it's been taken away. I remember the first days when those dirty bottles were brought, five packagings, when they were collected everywhere and everywhere. Today you see a series of people collecting in containers of old bottles, so this way I ask all those who throw bottles in containers not to throw the bottle in the container, but to put it next to the container. In fact, it's very good so that people don't really expose themselves even though what's happening with us is that if you travel around Europe a little bit, you have a chance to see elsewhere that containers are the target of many people in Europe, not just us. Therefore, on the basis of all these, the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to bring Croatian legislation into line with the acquis of the European Union. The Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Waste Act, which is in line with the provisions of the new Environmental Protection Act, has also been drawn up and a legal framework for the implementation of the legal property of the European Union in this area. According to this, the team agrees, and on behalf of the club, we will uphold this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6740	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6741	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. It would be best if no one in Croatia lived from containers, Kruno, and bottles, because in Croatia you can clean that container under quotes and run into a bomb as it happened recently in Zagreb before the arrival of Bush. But let's let it go now. I keep saying the same thing. Careful, gentlemen, with these fines. For example, Article 50 of Article 90 is amended and reads: “The fine of 100 to 500,000 kuna will punish the city for a violation, or municipality that does not comply with the county plan, ” come on. “Don’t bring a waste management plan according to the law” and that’s her job. But then it continues “unresponsibly, contrary to the provisions of this law, lords of municipal waste” Article 15 paragraph 1 that I am not quoting it now, and such are the municipalities, cities in this Republic, certainly 90%. On the other hand, this is about one fine, a fine of between 100 and 500,000 kuna. If we were to consistently apply the conditions of this law, such a provision should certainly affect every other municipality, every other city in the Republic of Croatia, and therefore I appeal once again when it comes to penalties, let us descend to the ground. The responsibility for one catastrophic situation in the area when it comes to waste, i.e. those dumps are not only borne by contaminants, not only by municipalities, cities, counties, states, but I dare say, that responsibility is largely borne by certain NGOs who also propagate the ways of their interest by favouring one or another capital. For example, a debate over Kashtjun in Pula. Where's the pulse waste supposed to go now? If it's someone to close, for example. One location, it doesn't matter if it's Buzet, whether it's Pula, Rijeka, Zagreb, Sisak or Osijek, it has to offer another location. I don't know how to express myself. Enough of that cheap collection of political points. No one understandable in this country will waste in their backyard. We, I can almost express ourselves so freely, nothing with this waste can be done in one river, in Pula, in Zagreb, in Buzet, etc. Where should I, I don't know, this waste in Zagreb with, say, the Jakuševac dumps, where it should be placed and it should again be far enough from Rijeka, from settlements, from underground waters, from forests, from nature parks, from agricultural areas, from some construction areas etc. In one word, we must be, gentlemen, sober, discreet and not self-inflicted, and when it comes to such topics, there should be a minimum fair play. Someone can collect cheap points in Pula, as IDS can collect cheap points in Rijeka or, I don't know, the one in Zagreb and so on. Croatia ten, fifteen years ago, it is clear that it could not handle waste on European occasions or standards. There was, clearly, a war, and then there was a need, and then the priorities in this country were very different. Today, Croatia is in a much better position than it was ten years ago, and it is understandable that this is the last time the country should start taking care of this waste in a European way. It's clear that this care will be financially burdened by every city, every municipality of ours, that waste will be more and more, and waste simply will not be in its own backyard. In one word, what we must do, God forbid that in the years ahead of us mainly in tourist resorts, Naples or God forbid that we should be reunited with Makarska, where this problem of garbage, if I am not mistaken, has escalated two years ago. So the problem of one Makarska, one Naples must not happen to Buzet, or Pula, or Zagreb, or Rivers, or any other city in this country. Why am I saying that? Therefore, if a problem arises, I think that the Government must react without delay, and those who propose and speak not to any location, you should at the very least offer another such location, so that this public debate can be conducted evenly. In order not to quote now Article 7 whole, mayor, the municipal chief is required once a year until 30 April of the current year for the previous year to submit a report to the city council, or to the municipal council on the implementation of the plan referred to in paragraph 1, that is clear, that is not a problem. However, there may be a problem in this next article. The city of Zagreb, the city, is obliged to set up appropriate containers in its area, ensure the construction of recycling yards for separate collection of waste in municipal waste management according to this law and waste management plan and ensure that at least one recycling yard for construction waste and so on. It is one thing when one of these standards is set in front of, by heart I speak, Zagreb, Rijeka, Split and Pula and the other is when we set a standard in front of a small unit of local self-government, a municipality or a city. How can they even meet that standard of municipalities that have only a few million kunas of their income at the annual level? We must also forget that anyone at this level of consciousness will store waste in the area of another municipality or city. It's simple, that time has passed. Yes, the truth is, in the west of that waste, many are doing big businesses, the Trstian burner buys out trash in Slovenia, but by the time this moment of consciousness reaches these spaces, we will have many more years. It's clear that then the implementation of one of these laws costs, but, once again I'm going to say, even the state is speaking in these programs, I've recently followed that, that every county, suggesting, must have its own combustion plant. So when it comes to that, and the question of how someone else would run politics, I still think it takes one minimum fair play. Consensus, I know it's impossible, especially not with the public, but that's why reason should prevail. We all know that when we set up one such location, one such location, when we do this intervention in space that this project is, to put it that way, the project forever. Once a dump, always a simple dump. And that part of the city after that, that part of the community, will never again be as attractive as it was until then. It will always be neglected in some way and therefore people who have their own properties, who live nearby, should also be compensated in some way. We are simply not one Austria, that one of the tourist sights in us may be, like the waste burner in the heart of a great myth in Europe's Vienna. What is the point, however, is clearly needed for everything. Our municipalities in this kind of redistribution between states and cities don't have. Our cities generally have no money, our counties are poor, paused in the right sense of that word, almost without any income. Our county budgets move where, from 100 million kunas per year to a maximum of 350 maybe 400 million kuna. One Primorje-Gorski County has only 300 million kuna. Istria with 100,000 inhabitants even less, with 100,000 inhabitants less than Rijeka, even less. And it's all nothing together for one such intervention of waste management. What worries me now is when I talk about these funds that should be installed is this announcement by a resolute ministry that some municipalities in the interior should be abolished, say Istria, the Primorje-Gorski County, mountain-mountan status, and that means less income for the economy, a significant loss for every employee, for every resident, less income I don't know about households, etc. And don't play with it, gentlemen. What does it mean if we want to implement one of these laws? If the state were to decentralisation, not to transfer new obligations from state to local self-government, the burden would be left to local self-government, and what the Istrians would say would be taken for themselves. I am absolutely to increase this untaxable part as everyone in this assembly, because this will probably make the average salary rise, but I am not for all the burden to fall solely on the budgets of local self-government. We know about that famous income redistribution and win. The state took its profits, did not intervene in profit, but therefore intervened in the income of others, meaning the unit of local self-government. The law is important, we will support it, but it is even more important if we are to implement this law, to set certain priorities and get the money. The vast majority of local self-government units have no money, mainly no county, and it is difficult to reach a consensus in the area of some county for one such joint or generality I don't know what to call it, a project where waste should be taken care of, and so it would be good to have a consensus on these issues, not to have one go through the woods with the other. For the end of what it would be good to do yet. You should go out of the country and out of the country and see how that waste is treated, how it's taken care of. It is clear to all of us here that Croatia, which has 10 thousand euros in gross social product per capital, cannot compete in one Austria, Switzerland, Germany that has 40 or 50 thousand euros per capital, but when it comes to the treatment of waste, the technology that is being brought into the country must really be the top technology as much as it cost us. It may be better in this context to build three, four or five burner rooms, or I don't know what less, and what we bring in, I'm talking about technology now, to be a couple of what's being used at this point in Austria, Switzerland or Rockwall, and that's why surveillance needs to be managed by the competent ministry. It can't happen to us that one Rockwul can work now speaking in mind, in the heart of Paris, in Italy, in Denmark, in the Netherlands, that all in Western Europe, a jag is going to get that technology, and then when they install it I'm talking now in Istria, that this technology is all unusable, in one word harmful and all such that the future and the investment itself should be accounted for, because it is clear that no one has the right to pollute, to transfer to no one the technology that will from that space under quotes, "drive" the domicillite population. So the technology that's being dragged in must be a top, better to be one or two smaller objects, less in Croatia, but what we have is adequate to what someone in Austria or Switzerland owns than to get some objects like me mentioning Rockwall, and there's more for sure in these areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6742	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Representative Mr. Petar Mlinaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6743	Thank you. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Since the entry into force of the Waste Act at the end of 2004, a number of specific regulations have been adopted to comply with certain provisions of that law. There are several questions that need to be brought into line with the Environmental Act. One of these issues is the transfer of competences to resolve administrative matters and to carry out all other administrative, irregular affairs governed by this law regarding waste management issues from the Office of State Administration in Countys to the administrative departments responsible for environmental protection in the counties and in the City of Zagreb. Also related to the transfer of competences, it is a question of reporting data on waste under a new united system of registers, environmental pollution as regulated by the Environmental Protection Act and so far, according to the Waste Law, was a waste cadastre. According to the Environmental Protection Act, the provisions of the Waste Act should be harmonised in strategic planning documents. The practice of implementing the law and its implementing rules has then highlighted the need to create a clearer legal basis for the effective implementation of a greater number of implementing rules that require the management of specific types of waste, inter alia, and in such a way that compensation is paid for the benefit of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund for the preparation, implementation and development of the system of return, collection and disposal of specific categories of waste. The provisions of the Waste Act should be brought into line with the Infringement Act in the section relating to criminal provisions and the submission of the indictment proposal with the Law on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government Law should be harmonised in relation to the concept of a large city and related to the termination of the provisions of that law during 2009 relating to the headships, counties, cities and municipalities. In addition, given that the Environmental Protection Act is differently regulated individual issues related to environmental inspection, it is necessary to comply with the provisions of that law with the provisions of the Waste Act. By adopting this law, the Waste Act will comply with the provisions of the Environmental Protection Act and with the provisions of those other laws. Since the Law amending and supplementing the Waste Act is one of the rules for which the adoption of which is a harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union, the adoption of this law is proposed by an urgent procedure. The amendments and additions to this law are assessed as necessary in order to fully comply with the European Union, the rules on waste management and the implementation of the principle of pay polluter by introducing compensation to cover the costs of the special types and categories of waste management system with a view to developing the entire waste management system in the Republic of Croatia from the Waste Management Strategy of the Republic of Croatia. The strategy is an integral part of the Strategy for Environmental Protection of the Republic of Croatia. The strategy shall determine and direct waste management in the long term, in particular the assessment of the existing state of waste management, the basic objectives and the waste management measures, the measures to manage hazardous waste, the recovery and disposal guidelines in accordance with the principles of environmental protection and economic principles, and the guidelines for waste disposal, which cannot be avoided and guidelines for ensuring the most favourable technical production measures to achieve the waste management targets. And the strategy is adopted by the Croatian Parliament according to our prescribed special law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6744	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Tomislav Vrdoljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6745	Thank you. The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Waste Act. The implementation of a series of Laws on Waste from 2004, 2006 and 2007 and its implementing rules, and in particular after the 2007 Environmental Protection Act came into force, some discrepancies of certain legal provisions between these two laws were observed and the need for amendments and additions to the Waste Act were also indicated. In the Republic of Croatia, the legislative part of the waste management system is largely resolved. In time, however, some problems have arisen. After the problem, however, there was a time of change in which measures are being implemented intensively to address these problems, especially after the establishment of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, which co-finances disposal recovery and other projects. On the basis of the Waste Act in the second half of 2005, the Waste Management Strategy of the Republic of Croatia was adopted, and the Waste Management Plan of the Republic of Croatia was adopted at the end of 2007. On the basis of this law, a number of implementing rules have been adopted over the past two years, such as the Regulation on categories, species and classification of waste with a waste catalogue and a list of hazardous waste, the Regulation on the control of cross-border waste transport, etc. Since the Law on Waste entered into force at the end of 2004, a number of regulations have been passed in the meantime. It is therefore necessary to align certain provisions of this law with the Infringement Act and the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. One of the questions that needs to be brought into line with the Environmental Act is the question of the transfer of competences to resolve in administrative matters and the conduct of all other administrative and irregular tasks governed by this law, related to the issue of waste management from the Office of State Administration in Countys to the administrative departments responsible for environmental protection in the counties and in the City of Zagreb. Regarding the issue of transfer of competence, it is a matter of reporting data on waste, about a new united system of environmental pollution registers, as regulated by the Environmental Protection Act, because so far it has been a waste cadastre. The practice so far has highlighted the need to create a clearer legal basis for the effective implementation of a number of implementing rules that prescribe the management of specific types of waste, among other things, to pay compensation in favour of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund for the preparation, implementation and development of systems, recovery, collection and disposal of specific categories of waste. The provisions of the Waste Act, as I have already said, need to be aligned with the Criminal Law in the section relating to criminal provisions and to the submission of the indictment proposal. These amendments and additions to the Waste Act need to comply with the provisions of the Law on Local Region (regional) Self-Government, and will require, among other things, the mayor and the municipal chief to submit once a year until 30 April of the current year for the previous year, a report on the implementation of the Waste Management Plan and, in particular, on the implementation of the obligations and effectiveness of the measures taken. The adoption of these amendments and the addition of the Waste Act will be brought into line with the provisions of the Environmental Protection Act. Finally, the Law amending and supplementing the Waste Act is one of the rules whose adoption is a harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union. And it is just now that the amendments and amendments proposed by this law are necessary in order to comply gradually with EU rules in the field of waste management. It's final. On the basis of all the above, I will support this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Waste Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6746	Thank you, Mr. Angelko Mihalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6747	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. Here I would say maybe a little different than my predecessors, this waste bill valid now as well as the management plan and the waste management strategy was good. Of course we have to comply with European legislation but not only that, it was good, but it was not a matter, but it was a matter of how the law was implemented on the ground. There's a bit of a bigger problem. Since I came from a municipality where I was for 10 years, for almost 10 years I was head of a municipality that had a 20-year deposit in its territory, which was unjustly imposed on us in 1982. I know, I'm well aware of this problem and we've been through everything in the municipality of Gornji Kneginec not far from Varazdin to come into one situation which today is that we have not only closed but also rescheduled one but also rescheduled one, in northwestern Croatia perhaps the largest dump. There's only two moments to break about what we're talking about today. First, this is the moment when the Environmental Protection Fund was established, and the second is the moment when the Regulation on packaging and packaging waste was adopted. It may seem irrelevant to the eye, but in the field it's something else entirely. One small municipality that had 10 or 15 million kunas at the time of the budget was unable to regulate the deposit under all the rules and laws of our country at the time. With considerable financial support from the Environmental Protection Fund, we managed to resuscitate that dump. I'm sorry there's no president of the Environmental Protection Committee here, invited the entire Environmental Protection Committee in that municipality to see what a rehabilitated dump really looks like. Why did we do it, the others might not. Because we recognized this problem at the time and went and took a series of measures that were quite unpopular back then. We've been attacked a lot, and we've had the price of waste disposal maybe even the highest in Croatia, but I say waste, we said, 10 years ago, it's not a social category, and when other local self-government units realize, then they'll be able to solve the problem better in their fields. I often go up to Austria and see where the waste management actually starts, so the primary waste disposal, the waste sorting, is already in the household. We tried to do it in Varazdin. So far it's going, it's going pretty hard, but believe me, we're here somewhere ten years behind Austria and there's no reason for ten years that in Croatia there's not going to be the situation that is now in Austria. We've been through a lot of dumps all over Europe, offering us shit. However, I would warn all the mayors and mayors, and now it's in their jurisdiction because often the county likes to talk about this impotence, because it can't be solved overnight these problems, they like to say that it should actually be the concern of the state. It's not the state's concern, it's the concern of local self-government and administration units because someone can't run the business and a little less we'll open shopping centers, and cities and municipalities should deal with these problems as well. Like I said, the dump isn't social, waste collection isn't a social category, and when we're all gonna figure it out together, then we're gonna behave differently with the waste. I'd just say, before the packaging and packaging waste regulations, 30% of the waste that ended at the dumps was just PET packaging. Today the PET packaging is gone and the situation is much better. Of course, it's gonna take a long time. It's gonna take young people to educate. Fortunately for us, college classes have been introduced. So let's take a step with time. It will certainly be much better, and given that Croatia is a tourist country, a tourist destination, other municipalities, especially municipalities down in the south, in the southern part of Croatia, have to deal with this problem along the coast. There were now speeches, you see, competencies and inspection services descending on the county and on the City of Zagreb. All that would be good if your dump wasn't politicized. Here we are now entering the year of election for the mayor and mayor of local self-government units, so in the election year, and believe me, there will be a lot of issues about these problems. If the problem had not been politically politicised, we would have found a location for a waste dump in Varazdin County. And when there were quality solutions and there were quality solutions and technical solutions, local policy always interfered, some small local interests. As a rule, it all fell apart. The recycling yard should have every municipality and regional centres, as is now being prepared by a regional centre in Koprivnica, where the waste of the Varazdin County would be taken care of, in agreement with 4 or more counties. So I said and you see this dump that has in the Principal and the building permit and the used license and the closing license, it's the subject of a visit today. I do not, of course, have anything to do with inspection services visiting this dump, finding today, when we are in the monitoring phase, which are all the objections, although we are trying to be actually local self-government and government, in Kneginec trying to be the best, but around other municipalities of nothing illegal dump in an extremely catastrophic state. And since it is quite a coincidence that the mayor of Varazdinski and his option there has his chief, and the dumps today are near the river Drava, they are not visited today by the Environmental Protection Inspectorate. I'm telling you, Mr. Secretary of State, and in your ministry you also have a petition from the citizens of the Cesta municipality that it would be good to do so. Because the law should apply to everyone equally. I say once again that this Environmental Protection Act and the Waste Act are good, only I have raised several problems from the position of local self-government. And of course, there's someone here today, when one dump closes that should be suggested where the other is. In this case, I don't think our five thousand-inhabitant community should have proposed another, and that should be taken care of by the county and the city of Varazdin. The problems are, but I believe that we will all find a solution together in that part of Croatia. And you see, given that a lot of things are moving out of our county, I have to commend here and a lot of things that are good. So this experience I think we can share with others, and once again I say, all those who worked on having such a dump today, in a closed, municipality of Gornji Kneginec, which was of great importance to all residents because today it is one of the most attractive municipalities and with the largest budget in the Republic of Croatia, without that budget part that we have filled with the title of disposal. So I'd like others to go that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6748	We have one replica. Mrs. Christmas School. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6749	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, I was a little offered when my colleague Mihalic said that waste management, especially illegal waste that has been created, could not only be managed by the state, but should include the dapace and municipalities, municipalities, cities and county. I'll just say one example, in the place where I come from, and that's Brezovica, where there's about 30 waste building material one that's very dangerous and it's in the area of Bezovica itself and Bezovica that we all know it's the first zone of the water protection area. However, the Council of the Fourth, which has very small authority in the city of Zagreb, must have sent about 50 conclusions and asked the city of Zagreb to prevent further accumulation of this waste in the area, especially in that part of the water protection area. However, no response was positive but the answers went that it was a competent state and that it was a competent ministry. I would not agree with that because it is the area of the city of Zagreb. The city of Zagreb has absolutely no concern. Neither people have a water system nor a drain system, but they have piles and piles of garbage, which is an honor to the mayor of Zagreb. And it won't be long.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6750	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6751	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. To begin with, one question. What are the European standards, rules from 2004 to today, and for which reasons this law comes to be corrected for the third time. In fact, the law passed in 2004 so we fixed it in 2006, so the second repair was in 2007 and now for the third time. I want to believe that now those who have written the bill have studied all the European directives well and that we really will not have to make changes and amendments to the law for the fourth time because we have heard that the personnel services that are preparing and harmonising Croatian regulations are now circled, that enough money has been allocated for this, but that general remark also applies to all laws, European laws which on average return to repairs three times. As regards the very proposal for a law relating to the provision of Article 10 of the proposed amendments and supplementing first my proposal or recommendation to the Proposer to give up this new criterion under which the price for the export of municipal waste could also be the number of members of the household. Namely, in all current legal provisions, the number of members of the household and in practice has proved to be one of the reasons, I note one of the reasons why we still have a problem in particular in rural areas that people simply do not agree to put waste down in the prescribed way and therefore we have a large number of dumps by foresters, goats, waterways, behind houses, along railway lines, under overpasses, underpasses, underpasses, etc. I think that this solution that the unit of mass or volume of waste is taken as the only criterion for setting the price, but given that these provisions of Articles 15 to 17 are not changed, so I cannot intervene with the amendment question or suggest whether Croatia is ready by law now to prescribe the last year, whether it is 2011 or 2013 since it would be mandatory in Croatia to provide municipal and municipal waste collection in such a way that it must be separately collected, glass, plastic, metal, information equipment, batteries and all that is actually raw material and not garbage. The shifts that have been made so far in Croatia and in five packagings, on tyres, on car tyres, batteries not only have we made an extremely large step in environmental protection but what we have actually imported earlier as secondary raw materials I hear and read that we are actually exporting a large part of it now, that's good. But still somewhere around 35% of the data I have on municipal waste dumps comes what is not and should not be waste but secondary raw materials. I know that opportunities and standards across the country are not the same. But if we're about to plot that in 2013 the last year until we tolerate that the concession for the collection and export of municipal waste is done by those who have qualifications or meet standards and have to, they simply have to handle municipal waste separately. So, will citizens accept such a way not only depends on them but also on who received the concession for the municipality or city area, what kind of services, how many times a month it drives away and how selectively it collects. I know that you know that one of the most useful moves would be because unfortunately if by law we don't define it there won't be incentives, there will be no coercion for those who normally make good money, especially those private concessionaries. Let's give them enough time to get ready and then start working that way. And second, related to Article 19. Manufacturers are obliged to provide the purchaser or the product user with the possibility to dispose of packaging. I'm very glad that the word "sellers" except for the manufacturer is now added. In fact, twice when I offered the amendments, they were always refused to have the same obligation as the manufacturers, so they had to take the TV, the computer or anything I bought from him and take care of him and the packaging waste. Unfortunately, too little is said in Croatia, so citizens do not know these obligations until now only by the manufacturer and now the seller. However, there is one problem in this article, or perhaps I misread it. Paragraph 2 refers to a regulation that the minister will more closely prescribe and oblige producers and sellers, which calls for Article 36(8). But in article 36, which is how I read from the explanation or material that you supplied us, there is no paragraph 8. Article 36 of the Law does not contain paragraph 8, so I am now asking whether it is an error in numbers or is planned and the part is amended because in order to be able to follow that regulation when it is adopted I would like to see a part of the law or obligations of the Minister when it will prescribe what it will do in terms of the obligation of the manufacturer and the seller and in the part of the collection and disposal of the packaging waste. This document, or document, may be wrongly prepared, but I did not find it in Article 36(8). Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6752	Thank you. We have one replica. Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6753	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In his discussion, Lesar mentioned the moment that the number of members of the household should not be the criteria for transportation, but the volume. That many members refuse to accept such provisions, and therefore nothing is inappropriate for us. I would like to mention to my colleague Mihalić that the education of all our members of society is necessary, because it is known that in Vienna, when it went into such a demanding job, then the mayor of Vienna said what is the main moment he made as a first step. The conversation with 600,000 housewives, so in this segment, as well as with us, we find many in our environments to resist of course with regard to delays, we need to do a lot of work and we are all invited in that section, but of course these criteria should be applied, because there is also another moment that there are social categories in these nursing households, rural ones where they can be released on the basis of different documents in the local environments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6754	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6755	Dear colleague, I agree with you that education is very important, but the number of members of the household with education in terms of establishing the price of municipal waste disposal really has nothing to do with it. Whether two pensioners in the centre of Zagreb produce the same, more or less municipal waste than two members or three household members elsewhere. Is it not fairer, and it is our obligation that when we pass legal regulations, to do everything we pay citizens to be as fair as possible and if there is a solution, volume or quantity stored to measure a small, medium, large bucket, small, medium, large sack and anything else, small, large, medium container, then we are more just than those who pay it, and if we have a criterion, a criterion that can be measured, one that gets a concession why allow the number of household members to be the basis for determining the price of something that is seen how much there is what. Well, at least we take that step towards the citizens and I assure you that without this criterion, the number of members of the household, but the amount of municipal waste coming out of the household will be more where we will need less education or people will accept it themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6756	Thank you very much. We'll have one more MP by the break, then there's two more left and the Secretary of State's address. That's what we'll do next. Mr. Representative Kresimir Gulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6757	The Honorable President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. We all know that waste comes from everyday human activity, whether in households or as an inevitable byproduct by the management of activities. The growing amounts of waste are a serious problem of the time in which we live and have a significant impact on the quality of the environment, the quality of life, human health, and the adverse impact on any environmental component, so quality and efficient management of waste is of paramount importance for each country, as well as for the Republic of Croatia. All problems related to waste prevention and waste management must be addressed at local, regional and global level by adopting adequate strategies, programmes and measures and by adopting regulations and their appropriate implementation in practice. Since its independence, the Republic of Croatia has been actively involved in addressing waste management problems, respecting the positive regulations of the European Union countries. Thus, the first Law on Croatia, which regulated the issue of waste management, was adopted in 1995 and is based on the regulations and experiences of the European Union that were valid until 1994. The 2004 Waste Act, together with the amendments and additions to the 2006 Law, is in line with the provisions of the European Union, so that it constitutes a framework law under its structure, in accordance with the Waste Framework Directive. The implementing rules adopted under this law have largely implemented directives in the field of waste management and specific categories, so far 10 and 3 more will be adopted by the end of 2008, and then the thermal treatment of waste as well as the way and conditions of waste disposal. On the basis of the implementing rules adopted, systems for the management of specific categories of waste have been established, resulting in the first results as seen in particular from the example of packaging collection systems, packaging waste, autogum, car wrecks, etc. which is for all praise. The Waste Act adopted a strategy by waste management of the Republic of Croatia, and at the end of 2007 the plan of waste management of the Republic of Croatia was further adopted over the past 3 years by a number of implementing rules, the Regulation on the conservation of legal and natural persons involved in the activities of the intervention in the organisation of waste or disposal of waste and of legal and physical persons dealing with the activity of non-hazardous waste. Furthermore, the Regulation on standards, procedure and how to regulate the amount of compensation to property owners and units of local self-government. It should be noted that the Republic of Croatia has ratified almost all international waste management contracts and thus actively engaged in the regional and global scene. A new Environmental Protection Act was adopted in October 2007. The Environmental Protection Act introduced a new instrument for environmental protection, establishing, uniting environmental protection conditions for plants transposing from the Directive to the 96 EEZ into Croatian legislation, which required the harmonisation of the certificates and certain provisions of the Waste Act. The environmental law fully regulates the new way of issues related to administrative and inspection supervision, and it is necessary to determine... to comply with the relevant provisions of the Waste Act. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As the Law of Infringement was passed in the meantime, it is also necessary to comply with that law. On the basis of the above, and the obligations of the Republic of Croatia on the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the acquiss of the European Union, the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Waste which is aligned with the provisions of the new Environmental Protection Act has been drawn up and a legal framework for the implementation of the acquis of the European Union alongside this area is given. Well, I'd say this, my colleagues were saying, since I came from the municipality the same way, since as the head of the municipality, I had this opportunity and the obligation to deal with the waste. I can say that much depends on both the mayors and the mayors of certain municipalities. I can only cite an example of my municipality of Bistra. We have removed all wild dumps in our area for the last three years, so in the area here my municipality has no wild dumps with the help of associations, craftsmen, entrepreneurs. In this way I think we have created conditions and preconditions that indeed now those who participated in cleaning no longer pollute the environment. And as for the export of household waste, I can say the same example that we have, here's a concession we assigned to a company and di is really going to drive the trash towards, and it's going to charge the transportation of home trash to quantities, not to the squares of living space or business space that doesn't make any sense to me. Because I think home waste and industrial waste, I'm talking about home, then I'm sure it's made by people, it's not made by squares. So I think it's safe to see here in other units of local self-government that this is the way of home-waste transportation. Here, while respecting the above, and in order to better and more efficient waste management in the Republic of Croatia, I consider the adoption of amendments and additions to the existing law justified and I will therefore support its adoption by an urgent procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6758	Thank you very much. At 13.18, it's past 10 minutes. Now we'd end this morning's session. We start at 3:00. The first is MP Boris Matkovic, then Boro Grubisic, and then the secretary of state will address and then we will finish this agenda. There you go. Thank you. Bon appétit. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the session and this item of the agenda. It's Mr. Representative Boris Matkovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6760	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. This law harmonises the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union, the acquis of the European Union, the legal acts of the Council of Europe. Otherwise, the Waste Act was adopted in 2004 and it regulated the principles and objectives of management, planning documentation, competence, responsibility, costs, information system, conditions for waste management, the manner in which the activity is carried out, concessions and control of waste management. I wouldn't actually say as some today said he was fixed. It's not fixed twice, it's only changed and completed. Under the law of 2005 a strategy was adopted, and at the end of 2007 a waste management plan for the Republic of Croatia was adopted. Otherwise, this is what we are familiar with, which is a set of activities, decisions, measures to prevent waste, reduce quantity, harmful environmental impact, not endanger human health, which means protecting water, soil, air, the appearance of unpleasant smells. Also, endangering life, plant and animal life, protect harmful influence on everything that can bring about catastrophic phenomena, and all of this is approximately familiar to us, the law is regulated and it is clear that these provisions of the law need to be brought into line with the Environmental Act. It should also be brought into line with the Law of Infringements, so compliance with the Criminal Law should be done, the Law on Units of Local Self-Government. So in principle, the law does not change, but only in principle it is in the part of harmonisation. And what I would like to say as a supplement, what I particularly care about, is about the units of local self-government because they are particularly interested here, and all of us, mainly in the local self-government units, the waste management plan at the city level, because the important things from planning, and what it foresees are the separation and collection of municipal waste, management and control, and it is clear everything that pollutes the environment and violates a clear list of these unregulated dumps and is similar to what we in local self-government units have to deal with. Surely we can't do a good part of our own budgets. But I would say that, no matter what, especially not even the lack of money, I don't think there's anything here, as I've heard today, contentiously. Why isn't there anything controversial? Well, first of all, there is nothing in particular because today the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia is as clean as possible and one extraordinary shift and step has been made, whether some or not wanted to admit it. Here I'm going to say specifically in my town where I'm from, right now we're just here, let's say we've made a disposal plan, and clearly with the fund, we're going to solve everything that's necessary and get help from it as we have, because we certainly can't. The city is also completely cleaned from the cars of the old, so tire, battery, iron, bottle of plastic, glass, paper, etc. That's what I noticed because I'm very close to the Makarska Riviera, from Brel to Gradac. So we have something that we haven't had in a whole series of years, we've had this now for the last four or five years, an extraordinary step. I say again, whether they want it or not they want to admit it. So thanks to one co-operation with the fund, we're preparing some other activities like dealing with these green islands and also rehabilitating existing dumps, it's been small, wild dumps around, etc. that I am not talking about dumps of construction waste that we are also talking about as locations and even negotiating their recycling. In fact, what I was going to say is that in recent years it's also becoming more and more frequent and control of the garbage inspectors and that's good, because those who master the waste today are more concerned about keeping them, primarily clear about that overlap... material, using clay as impermeable material, plastic foils, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's no longer what it was before, and that's just a bunch of stuff and there's no control over it. Today, that control has been established. Someone mentioned here just today the Macarque coast. I would say that perhaps the issue of Lower Gore is welcome, because today they have a ballir that solves the issue of waste much more quality than it was before the classical way of putting it down. After all, it's not just in that area. In any case, whether I travel a lot with our beautiful and everywhere I've been in many places clearly there are still problems, but there's also a lot of distance, i.e. a step in terms of what we used to see before, and that's along the road, roads, etc. Especially what we say down below every wall was a little dump. That's not what's going on today. Some say they're unhappy, they won't vote for this. But this is all I've just listed, and there's one of my sayings down there that says, "if he's lying to a goat, he's not a horn." So you can see it. So that's what everyone can see that one step has been made. With all these previously listed positive shifts that I expect will be even more now by passing a new law, I will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6761	Thank you. Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6762	Mr. President, a few colleagues and colleagues. Here I appear to be the last speaker today in connection with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Waste Act, with the Final Proposal for a Law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 10 April of this year to the Croatian Parliament. If we are in doubt about this law, if we have some vague notions about this law, then we need to come to Slavonski Brod and see how this law there is still unvoted, but it has elements of application in Slavonski Brod. Namely, what waste management requires is the exploitation of secondary raw materials, for example in Slavonski Brod, is found when someone removes the copper roof from the morgue in one of our local committees where the cemetery is located. Or there he is in our town so I would say in our county one of the main economic activities of collecting PET packaging that is seen in bags of decorated bicycles passing through the city in the collection and handing over where it is done. So here's how it is in our Slavonia one of the main economic activities is right now the collection of waste. That is to say today both in legal and illegal form if there is a truly profitable economic activity. When someone was talking here about that there is one problem about where to place the dumps, I think the awareness of the citizens has already changed significantly, and that exactly what I said is that one already economic activity and not such a dirty industry has reached the citizens' consciousness and is no longer a problem, at least not with us in our county, or in Slavonia about it and the agreement that and where the deposits will be positioned. However, this law is truly well imagined. It explains nicely from article to article all of this, but as someone also cited these units of local administration and self-government I think they'll come quite expensive. So there's one thing to say about duty, one obligation to collect waste, recycling, and everything else, we're making a commitment to the municipalities, cities and counties. But what is the financial effect of decentralising funds on these units of local administration and self-government? Will this be a new burden for local administration and self-government units? Article 8 that has already been quoted here states that cities and municipalities are required in their territory to ensure the construction of a recycling yard. I would be constructive to say here and given that there are many municipalities that have a few million kunas of their annual budget, and in particular I say to us in the 5th Election Unit in Vukovar-Srijem, Brod-Posavia, Požega-Slavon County that there is the possibility to write or determine that more municipalities can agree, so more municipalities agree that in the area of neighbouring municipalities or a small mini or micro-region to agree where it will be. So there's one possibility. Especially because I say that the resistance to the location of recycling dumps is much smaller and I say enough citizens are informed that it is not something that is really like this when it's said to be a burner or when it's said to be a dump that's something that's really scary or even worse than that. In any case, the Environmental Protection Strategy and the Waste Management Strategy are two related things, although in some cases it does not have to be. Here, when it comes to environmental protection, we in Slavonski Brod in the center of town have a railway car wash. Although little water consumption, thank God it is so, so that there is less pollution, but we do not have a recycling dump or a recycling yard, a recycling yard that would select waste according to species, and in the end only organic waste could be done again by one production of humus. What remains, in fact, for that deposit that is intended to be made for Brod-Posavina and Požega-Slavonia County by a provision or by a decision or direction of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Construction, which is about somewhere around Nova Gradiška, the Shagolji location is Mr. Mayor's former? So it already takes in very small quantities after selecting a vehicle to that central dump for these two counties. In any case, since there is therefore a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Waste of Things that are acceptable, but in any case, here is the case, we are talking about Brod-Posavia County should solve both with local municipal enterprises and with the town of Brod or units of local administration and self-government, but I think that the funds that they have all together are insufficient and that the intervention of the fund and intervention of the ministry is also needed in order to achieve what they're just talking about, therefore a recycling dump and a recycling yard. It is clear that both the city and the county of Brod-Posaviska will participate in the construction and implementation of this waste management that is absolutely certain and profitable economic activity, and we also have a business carrier who is in the town of Slavonski Brod is a municipal enterprise that could do such activity. I hope I still wanted to comment. In connection with the already conflicted opinions here, whether a unit of mass or volume of waste or the number of household members applies to municipal waste as a criterion for payment. I think that this discussion here was quite harsh though it's clear that if you could always measure the volume or mass of waste it's clear that it's the most logical, the most excessive that such a thing can be done that way. When I spoke in the village headquarters of Slavonski Brod, which is the sixth largest city in the Republic of Croatia, then they showed me in the local municipal company a recycling dump or yard from the island of Krk where it has been in use for several years. So, it's just selecting waste, recycling, you know how many years, and then I asked myself, and I thought I'd normally intervene in the Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund, whether that kind of thing is possible and done and done with us in Slavonia or Slavonski Brod. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6763	Thank you. Finally, on behalf of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction and Government, Mr. Secretary of State Nikola Ruzhinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6764	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. To all of you who have answered and discussed here I especially thank you, because I see that the topic of waste is extremely important and current today. I believe that this is also the result of what we have done in environmental protection, especially in the disposal of waste these years and that it has raised, as it has seen, raised awareness of environmental protection and not a little, especially if we are looking at that first regulation on packaging and packaging waste has brought besides the effects of cleanliness, which are often mentioned and raising awareness. So I must honestly say, I'm surprised that this is exactly the kind of rule that attacks as one of the worst solutions. I would refer here to the discussion of the representatives of the SDP club, the distinguished MP Holly, and the reason why the SDP will not support this law. Therefore, it will not support him because it is obviously not, by emergency procedure, obviously not, but because it is "the glued EU law label" although it is not true. I'd like to draw attention to you that here in my presentation and in that section that says in the light of the law that this law is in line with several laws, among them the Environmental Protection Act. The new Environmental Protection Act adopted on the basis of all the provisions required by the European Directives. So, if something is in line with a law that is in line with European directives, then why not bring it in line with European directives? It's also said why do you change laws? Why don't you wait for a new directive that's about to be passed this year? I'd draw your attention that we're in a system of negotiations, that we're going through the screening, that we're waiting for the opening of the chapter of environmental protection, that we've filled 300 and some pages so-called. standards or benchmarks in which we are asked to comply with existing directives. When the chapter is closed in the negotiations, then it is provisionally closed, until the negotiations are completed, until a decision is made that we will be accepted as members of the European Union. And our obligation, meanwhile, is to continue to comply with new directives, with new laws. So we did the same thing in this next law that we're going to talk about, the Air Protection Act. So we have to comply with all those parts of the acquis that are represented today. Therefore, we cannot wait for enough laws to be collected to bring us in line with them, so I must, indeed, reject this claim that this law is not a alignment with the European Union. If this law isn't, then I don't know who it is. Speaking of which, another reason why the law is not adopted is the rule, and that's exactly the Regulation on packaging and packaging waste. A rule that has become a symbol of what we have done, in the rulebook that we have received certain commendations in the European Union, a rule that prescribes neighbouring countries and a rule that has indeed made one great success. Is that what the money was spent on? Yeah, a lot of money's been spent. Although the total investment in this went from private sources, money from the fund was spent. Whether it's a loss or a loss due to bad business or a loss because we're in just a few months, and that stretches, I have to tell you up to today, we're cleaning the system, and for all the money, there's no charge paid by the producers. Of course it has to result, since it's big numbers, big money, but that doesn't mean the fund's lost because of it. So the information that the fund achieved in this respect came from a certain minus came from the public ballots, so the publicly published balance sheet of the fund that it showed. So, the fund doesn't hide things like that, so there's no responsibility, I don't know why it's moving, it's not the first time. The other thing is why the fund doesn't sell, I think it's interesting to answer the question, why someone makes money selling recycling products and why the fund doesn't sell the packaging itself. So, according to the law, according to European standards, we are obliged to recycle a certain procedure of useful waste. And we, based on all these regulations, have passed a series of regulations and organized production or recycling of useful waste raw materials with relatively great success, because all the rules have not yet been implemented. But today we are recycling unlike some countries that are already in the European Union today, and I can even count them for you, because I had the opportunity to talk, let's just look at neighbouring Slovenia. We recycle here in Croatia and packaging waste, recycle paper, recycle waste tyres, start recycling parts of electronic, electronic equipment, we have recycling of waste cars which can rarely be praised by the new member states of the European Union. Of course all your drives aren't finished. This whole waste treatment process hasn't finished yet, but that doesn't mean that when we make certain adjustments in the rulebook it's said it's wrong. So it's really interesting to talk about these rules being missed. What I think, the reason that the third point is that it's all about burning, that this Law on Amendments and additions to the Waste Act, which is actually only about adapting certain expressions and certain things that have happened by changing legal and other things, is that this is the Burning Regulation. I can't really tell you, it's not the only thing, so the esteemed representative Caine, I don't see him here right now talking about the burner, too, talking about being a burner in every county. Ladies and gentlemen, where do you see the burners here in this law? Where do you see the burner in the basic waste law? Where do you see them? It is only seen in the mentioned strategy and only in the said waste management plan, and this is said to be done by a municipal waste burner in the city of Zagreb, and that there must be a burn-out of hazardous waste, which is really necessary because we are exporting dangerous waste today and it is being burned in the middle of Vienna, we are exporting dangerous waste and it is being stored in Germany, so in developed countries of the European Union, the city is being burned. And then we have some big problem with that burning. When it comes to the fact that inadequate waste management is that waste management centres are not done, that very little is said about waste management centres, then it is forgotten that the size of waste is unsettled with us, it is forgotten that 298 dumps are being rescheduled through the Environmental Protection Fund. I don't think in this house here, there are any MPs in this assembly from one of the places where waste dumps that have never been in accordance with the sanitary conditions are being remedied today. And that there's very little talk about regional centres. I think that the SDP's Club of Representatives would also, given that just in one county where the SDP is in power today, be doing one of the largest projects of the regional centre so that SDP's representatives might know that it is indeed such a programme. That's what I'm talking about in Marish, about Rijeka County, Istria County, which is another county, though. So today we're doing dumps, regional centres. The waste management centres are now under construction in Pula, Kaštion Pula, so Istrian County, in Rijeka Mariščina, in Sibenik-Knin County of Bikarac Sibenik. It is said to be preparing in Split-Dalmatia County, preparing for a regional centre in Zadar County, preparing a regional centre in north-west Croatia where four counties have been discussed today. Construction is being prepared in Virovitica-Podravska County, with some difficulties in eastern Slavonia. So, if anyone says it's neglected, then forgive the distinguished MPs, I don't know what we're doing or how we're doing. And then maybe this most significant statement of yours related to the letter of an NGO that we all got. The Parliament got it, I got it by mail, we got a letter saying it's the opposite of a national strategy that talks about prevention of production, about reuse, about material recovery, about energy recovery. Again, you're talking about increasing the possibility of a combustion plant. I'd really ask you to explain to me where in this law we're talking about burning waste and the great use of the burner. You are saying that this is contrary to the views of the European Union. I must warn you that the European Union and the world today are talking about how to solve waste by looking from the light of climate change. We're talking about the West Energy program. Thus, a large number of European Union countries are almost completely burning or benefiting from waste as energy raw materials. So energy recovery is one of the trends in developed countries of the world, in Europe. Just because we decided we weren't going to have a burnerhouse, that's our decision, that's the decision of this House, that's the decision when he took the strategy, that's our commitment, but that doesn't mean that we're now trying to make this part through some law. I don't know if it's necessary to talk about it, but definitions of differences in energy recovery or recycling. The point is that this NGO obviously does not understand what this is about, so it makes such suggestions but everyone has a proposal to make. I would now say a few words at the expense of the discussion of Reverend Caine, but I will no longer enter such details that I do not bother you. His claim every county must have its own burner. So, from one provision that we need to secure a recycling yard or that we gave up regional centres by introducing recycling yards and such things, I don't know why someone understood it that way but the fact is that we really wanted to encourage this system of recycling yards to increase that separate collection that a lot of MPs here talked about. It's clear that one of the big problems just like there was a lot of speech here is construction waste, construction waste that isn't regulated by county management plans. We've brought the building waste management rule in which the details are in and here is the basis that covers that rule. By the way, about how everything's going down, I'm going back to the esteemed representative Cain, that everything is coming down on the back of the local self-government, and I need to remind him that building a waste management centre is being financed at 80% through the fund, only 20% from local self-government, that from 40% to 60% are co-financed by all those unregulated dumps and that there has to be a local world and responsibility for waste. The local community must be held accountable. The state, or through this fund, is helping as much as possible in this entire system. I don't think maybe we should talk anymore. I would like to answer to the Honorable Representative Lesar that Article 36(8) really exists in the Waste Act, and the Waste Act applies, not to this law, because in Article 18 of this Law, the link to Article 19 of this Act. So there's no mistake in this of all that's going on. And a respected representative from the HDSSB, I don't think he's sitting here anymore. I'd be strong, I'd have to answer to be very much not just me, but all of us who do business and whose soul is waste management. I would be very happy if the resistance of local communities would be much smaller today to see that it is generally accepted. We have a few hotspots where it's very difficult to accept dump sites with state-of-the-art technology, as some have said, so it's really about state-of-the-art technology, and then there's still resistance in some communities and not in some communities. The proposal to decompose the local communities where dumps or waste management centres are located has been resolved through the Refund Regulation, and therefore we have that part covered. Here, I'd like so much for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6765	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide when the conditions are met. Six. Proposal for a final law amending and supplementing the Waste Act. It's an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 48. The debate is closed. The review of the amendments submitted is divided into benches. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to show up on the amendments. Mr. Snotty Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6767	Mr. President, I suggest we vote the amendments manually for speed.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6768	Okay, thank you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State. It's Mrs. Mirale Holly's amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6769	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6770	Thank you. Second. She's also a representative of Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6771	The amendment is not accepted for reasons to allow smaller places than 10,000 inhabitants to set up certain tanks and have recycling courtyards. We also have cities of 5, 6, 7 thousand inhabitants who would also like to have their seats, places orderly. Well, we don't think we can accept the amendment for that reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6772	Thank you. Mrs. Mirela Holly. Here you go. To be obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6773	I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6774	Thank you. Who is to this amendment that the government does not accept. Please raise your hand? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 3rd representative Marijana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6775	The amendment is not accepted. It is not accepted for the reason that so far it is impossible in, especially in these large buildings such as the hangover in Zagreb and the like, to calculate waste by volume, and then alternatively remains this number of members of the household. That would be impossible for now in our opportunities to implement.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6776	Thank you. Mrs. Mariana Petyr, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6777	Your Honor, Mr. President, I accept the Secretary of State's explanation. I wanted this amendment to actually encourage the Ministry to move towards solving this problem. The introduction of a provision that the quantities of waste can, therefore, be charged by the number of persons in the household are actually cut off by the poorest ones. Because we know that in the city of Zagreb of 6, 8, 10 people live in 30 square meters and that they produce certainly much less waste than those 2, 3 who live in 200 or 300 square meters. So this is about a social sensitivity problem to run for office. I expect you to develop technology through the following changes and additions to the Waste Act how this issue will actually be resolved. Because the justice of it is that he who manufactures the waste pays as much as he has produced. So, I take it back.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6778	Thank you. The amendment has been withdrawn. Amendment 4 to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6779	The amendment is partly accepted in a way that the word "waste owner" is added to the word "gatherer" in this paragraph 2. The amendment would read: "Article 27 of the introductory sentence and paragraph 1 shall be amended and read as follows: In Article 66 paragraph 2 of the introductory sentence and subparagraphs 1 shall be amended and read as follows: paragraph 2 in the implementation of the inspection control, the inspector shall monitor the manufacturer, the seller, the owner, the manufacturer, the owner, the owner, the collector, the mediator and the waste carrier, the processor, the importer, the transporter, the exporter and the supplier of the concession, in particular:
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6780	Is the committee in agreement?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6781	It's consensual.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6782	The president of the Committee agrees in the formulation that the secretary of state has said. Let's go to Mrs. Mirela Holly's 5th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6783	It shall be accepted for reasons of acceptance of Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6784	Thank you. It's becoming an integral part. 6th Amendment of the Committee on Environmental Protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6785	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6786	It becomes an integral part of the law. Seven. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6787	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6788	It becomes an integral part of the law. 8. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6789	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6790	Thank you. It's also an integral part of the law. Legislative Committee 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6791	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6792	It also becomes an integral part of the law. Ten. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6793	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6794	It also becomes an integral part of the law. 11th Lady Representative Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6795	It shall not be accepted for the same reason as Amendment 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6796	Unacceptable?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6797	No, no, it's not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6798	Here you go, ma'am. He's pulling. Thank you. Thank you. I am voting on the final draft of the law, together with the amendments adopted. Please, let's get involved and vote. Thank you. Score. This law was adopted with 86 votes for, 31st abstention and 2nd against, together with the amendments adopted. We move to - Proposal for a Law on Changes and Supplements to the Air Protection Act, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 49 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Law, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government and the Committee on Environmental Protection. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary Mr. Nikola Ruzhinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6800	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Air Protection Act. The air protection law was passed in 2004. It took effect on 31 May 2005. Meanwhile, in 2006 and 2007, the Croatian Parliament adopted laws and ratification on four protocols with the Convention on Long-range Transboundary Air Contamination, on so-called The Stochholm Convention. The Kyoto Protocol was also ratified in 2007 with the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change. And finally, in October 2007, the Environmental Protection Act that we already discussed was passed. A new regulation on fluorinated greenhouse gases and Directives has been adopted in Europe at European Union level since 2006, the new Air Quality Directive 2008. All these regulations, international regulations, European norms, directives require a certain amendment and complementarity of this law, and the most important, most important part and most important part of this Law amending and supplementing the Law on Air Protection is the result of the ratification of the Kyoto Protocol, which, by this law and later on, should be addressed the issue of trade in greenhouse gas emission quotas because this is one way in which the climate protection system can be implemented against climate change, the impact of anthropogenic CO2 sources. So the addition of the greenhouse gas trading directive within the community has been passed, where we are not yet up to it. Then an important segment, which has occurred in the meantime, which is a standardised and security system and emission register, also through a European directive later transposed into our Environmental Protection Act. It is then the establishment of a questionnaire on reporting according to the requirements of the Directive establishing the emission trading scheme. So it's all about trading emissions and avoiding double bills, reducing emissions so as not to abuse all of these directives. Therefore, on the one hand, the Kyoto Protocol, on the other hand, the European Union, has made and drawn up this draft air protection law that is being regulated, harmonizes with these implementing laws of the European Union. So when we look at the part that is in line with EU standards, with directives, with the aquis indirectly through the Environmental Protection Act, so who accepted it. It's a matter of air protection that was in the jurisdiction of the state administration. This is, therefore, the part that is related to the competence of the protection, environmental protection affairs, the collection of emissions data that are now being pooled in the common, newly established pollution register and the obligations of facilities for the application of technical protection measures prescribed by the new instrument, which are united environmental protection conditions. It's so-called. The IPPS Directive is one of the strong segments of environmental protection in industrial and production processes. There are technical air protection measures in the plants, devices for smaller plants. Therefore, the regulations of those smaller plants which do not fall under that IPPS Directive. And finally, in the law, we also talk about some parts that regulate the questions of inspection and administration. As regards the transfer of the EU's legal acquis in the area of climate change, there is a way to calculate emissions, report on data supply and on the national register as I have said and draw up a plan for the distribution of emission quotas to greenhouse gases by entities. It's so-called. Allocation plans. These are allocation plans to be implemented during this year, where the exact emission quota for individual plants will be set and this law also gives, introduces a fine of 750 kuna. Therefore, the order of 100 euros for each tonne of excess emissions that these entities will release energy or industrially above the allocation plan of the fixed quota. This money will be collected in the Environmental Protection Fund and will serve to cover any penalties that Croatia will have to pay if it totals over the emissions granted to it by the Kyoto Protocol, and later we will see what will happen in the coming years, the post-kyot period according to the post of Kyoto, where the conditions are significantly improved. The other thing that is significant is that perhaps the state air quality monitoring network will pass on to ownership, we will transfer to the ownership of the hydrometeorological institution as a professional institution that will do so once the network is built. We now have one project through PHARE, so through pre-accession assistance where these cells will be built. So, with this system as I said, we are in line with the international conditions of combating climate change, whether the EU norms, or the Kyoto Protocol, and the other conditions that have been passed by our laws so far are being regulated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6801	Thank you. The committees. I'm opening a debate. Representatives' club... What? But he's got a board. Madam Representative Mirela Holly, Environmental Protection Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6802	At the first session held on 25 April 2008, the Committee on Environmental Protection of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Air Protection with the Final Proposal for a Law submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by a Act of 10 April 2008, with a proposal to comply with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall adopt the proposed law by an urgent procedure. On the basis of its competence as set out in Article 84a of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Environmental Protection Committee discussed the final draft law as the home working body. In its opening statement, the applicant’s representative explained briefly that the Law on Air Protection under its structure constitutes a framework law governing air quality management and assessment, and that it was based on the implementing rules which bring this area in line with the legal acquis of the European Union. During the 3 years following the entry into force of this Act, the Republic of Croatia has confirmed international agreements in the field of climate protection and greenhouse gas emissions, whose implementation requires certain amendments to the Air Protection Act. The proposed amendments and amendments to the law are also transposed into the elements of the Directive and comply with the Environmental Protection Act adopted in 2007. In particular, the Committee's discussion points out the issue of air quality in Sisak, Kutina and Rijeka, as well as the need to introduce clock measurements instead of daily levels of ammonia and sulphur compounds. In addition, further clarification has been requested from the applicant regarding the public notification system in excess of emission values and the possibility of introducing an eco-innovation. Regarding the issue of air pollution from the Sisak Refinery and the conclusion reached at the 25th session of the Croatian Parliament in April 2007, the proposer's representative pointed out that a report on the results of the proposed measures for the past year has been prepared and will be submitted to the Environment Protection Committee. It is also coming from the fact that energy emits a high percentage of greenhouse gases, energy consumption trends in the Republic of Croatia have been discussed, issues of meeting Kyoto protocol restrictions, greenhouse gas emissions and increasing the share of renewable energy sources. In this context, the need to submit a draft energy development strategy for the Republic of Croatia is highlighted to consider the Environment Protection Board before putting that strategy into the adoption procedure. During the debate, the importance of designing quality projects and implementing a waste disposal system is highlighted in order to prevent the occurrence of excess concentration of methane above limit values. The debate also raised the question of the complexity of the method of valorisation of the terrestrial ozone and the importance of public communication related to this problem. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Air Protection Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6803	Thank you. Any other answers? Debate, club of HDZ representatives, Mr. Representative Tomislav Vrdoljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6804	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable state secretary, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. The Air Protection Act was passed in November 2004 and entered into force on 31 March 2005. It is in line with the provisions of the Directive so that, under its structure, it represents a framework law in accordance with Directive 96/62 E.Z. the management and assessment of air quality and the implementing rules adopted under this law have been implemented to the greatest extent by the Directives in this area. Air pollution is a serious problem of the time in which we live and has a significant impact on human health, environmental quality, quality of life and a harmful impact on any environmental component. Climate change is a global danger to the environment, and therefore a major threat to the human race in the 21st century. The main pollutants that are sent into the air by direct or indirect human action from stationary or mobile emission sources are sulphur dioxide, smoke, carbon monoxide, floating particles, heavy metals, gasoline, oils, aromatic hydrocarbons, ammonia and others. The European Union has suggested that due to the shift in carbon dioxide emissions, which could result in catastrophic consequences that a set should be entered in the Balija draft by 2020 to reduce emissions ranging from 20% to 40% compared to 1990. The Kyoto Protocol predicted that industrially developed countries would reduce greenhouse gas emissions by about 5% compared to 1990. The sources of polluting substances in the atmosphere are mainly the result of human activity such as natural resources. burning fossil fuels for the purposes of energy production for industry and household purposes, industrial processes and transport, which is the main source of air pollution in cities. We are the first generation to have every reason to fear the unpredictability of the climate because we are witnessing numerous weather extremes that we watch on TV, melting glaciers, storm storms, floods, and we also follow in Croatia winters that are increasingly snowless and rainy summers. All these problems, both air pollution and climate change and ozone damage, must be addressed at local, regional and global level by adopting adequate strategies, programmes and measures and by adopting regulations and their appropriate application in practice. Since its independence, Croatia has actively engaged in addressing the problem of air pollution and later climate change, respecting positive regulations in the European Union countries. The new Air Protection Act of 2004 is in line with EU provisions, so that, according to its structure, it represents a framework law in accordance with Directive 96/62 E.Z. which regulates air quality management and assessment, and the implementing rules adopted under this law have been implemented to the greatest extent by the air protection directives. As a result of this law, 16 implementing rules and programmes have been adopted to date, which are broadly in line with the acquis of the European Union. It should be noted that the Republic of Croatia has ratified almost all international agreements in the area of protection of the atmosphere, climate and ozone layer and thus actively engaged on a regional and global stage in the prevention of air pollution and the protection of the climate system. In October 2007, a new roof environmental law was adopted. This law introduced a new instrument for the protection of the environment to establish uniform environmental protection conditions for the plant which is transposed by Directives 96/91 of the E.Z. into Croatian legislation, and therefore it was necessary to comply with certain provisions of the Air Protection Act. The Environmental Protection Act is a comprehensively regulated issue related to administrative and inspection supervision, and it is necessary to comply with the provisions of this law with the relevant provisions of the Air Protection Act. As the Law of Infringement was passed in the meantime, it is also necessary to comply with the Law on Air Protection. During the 3 years following the entry into force of the Air Protection Act, significant international contracts in the area of climate protection and greenhouse gas emissions requiring certain amendments to the Air Protection Act have been adopted. The Republic of Croatia also ratified the Kyoto Protocol on 27 April 2007 with the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, which took effect on 28 August 2007. On the basis of this obligation by the Republic of Croatia on the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the legal acquis of the EU, the Final Proposal for the Law amending the Law on Air Protection which is aligned with the provisions of the new Environmental Protection Act has been drawn up and the legal framework for the implementation of the Kyoto Protocol and the legal property of the EU in this area is given. The ratification of the Kyoto Protocol gave rise to the conditions for the transposition of the legal property of the European Union into Croatian legislation and the elements of the following Directives are transposed by this law. The Directive lays down a scheme for the trading of greenhouse gas emission quotas within the Community, a regulation of the Commission on standardised and security structures of emission registers, a decision establishing a reporting questionnaire according to the requirements of the Directive establishing a scheme for the trading of greenhouse gas emission allowances within the Community. Decisions transposing the guidelines for the monitoring and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions in accordance with Directive 2003/87/EC. Decisions on the avoidance of double counting of greenhouse gas emission reductions based on a Community trading system, emissions for project activities based on the Kyoto Prokola in accordance with Directive 2003/87/EC. What are the basic features of the bill? The basic features of this law's proposal are to comply with the provisions of the Environmental Protection Act, which means the issue of air protection which was in the jurisdiction of the Office of State Administration in the Countys, are hereby transferred to the administrative departments responsible for the protection of the environment in the county and the City of Zagreb. Emission data shall be collected in the new united system of environmental pollution registers. The provisions of the draft law prescribe obligations for the establishment of technical air protection measures prescribed by the newly introduced instrument in the Environmental Protection Act, the uniform conditions of environmental protection. The application of technical air protection measures that must be prescribed in the authorisation issued by the competent authority at local level to carry out certain activities in installations, installations or smaller facilities for which it is not mandatory to obtain uniform environmental protection conditions shall also be prescribed. The significant news is that these measures must be established by means of an elaborate which produces an authorised person under the Environmental Protection Act. And according to the Environmental Protection Act, this law regulates issues related to administrative and inspection supervision in order to prescribe adequate fines. The importance of the proposal for this law is also the transfer of the legal property of the European Union in the area of climate change, which means that the bill regulates the monitoring of greenhouse gas emissions at country level, the way in which these emissions are calculated, the reporting, the transmission of data to the national register, the emissions it establishes by this law. It is prescribed to adopt a plan for the allocation of greenhouse gas emission quotas, the period for which a list of activities to which the allocation of emission quotas and other conditions necessary for the adequate implementation of the plan will apply. The obligation to make the list referred to in the plan is prescribed to obtain a permit from the Ministry for greenhouse gas emissions by the prescribed deadline, i.e. until 30 September 2009. Otherwise, these facilities will not be able to carry out their activities and release greenhouse gases after 1 January 2010. The emissions of greenhouse gases granted by authorisation may be subject to trade. For the purpose of monitoring all transactions with allocated quotas at the Environmental Protection Agency, the emission register shall be established as a centrally standardised and infomated database of all greenhouse gas emissions data. Finally, it is also introduced to pay a fee of 750 kuna for any excessive amount of carbon dioxide that the operator cannot justify by its permission and which it pays to the Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund. The funds will be deposited in case the Republic of Croatia has to pay the fine for excessive greenhouse gas emissions. Other important issues are: In accordance with the obligations of ratified international contracts, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is required to make national agency plans, national programmes and national reports. It is also authorised the Ministry that in the event of cross-border air pollution coming from another country and may cause increased concentrations of pollutants in the territory of the Republic of Croatia may launch activities with the competent authority of another country in order to adopt joint plans and programmes to reduce air pollution through appropriate measures. On the basis of all these and in order to make air protection and climate protection better and better in the Republic of Croatia, we consider the adoption of amendments and additions to the law of the existing law justified and will therefore support the adoption by the Croatian Democratic Community of amendments and additions to the Air Protection Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6805	Thank you. SDP club, Mr. Zdenko Franic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6806	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here we have welcomed this dynamic time to reconsider the complex problem of air protection although the Air Protection Act has been passed in the Croatian Parliament relatively recently. However, the dynamic economy in Europe as well as in Croatia, and some new scientific knowledge that has been provided in new European, some new European directives, and also the fact that the Law on Environmental Protection in Croatia was adopted in 2007 is the reason why the Air Protection Act must also be amended. The Republic of Croatia, although geographically located in a part of Europe that should not have bigger air quality problems, still has several difficult situations related to the problem. Let us mention Sisak, Kutin, Rijeka and the City of Zagreb as the largest population anglomeration in the Republic of Croatia. This law introduces control of floating particles of a smaller diameter of 2.5 micrometers, which is consistent with the modern scientific knowledge that most of the health problems come precisely from these particles of a smaller diameter. However, the fact is that these particles of smaller diameters have proved to be good indicators of the transfer of pollution from remote sources, so that is what they give us, because even the most distant European countries. Scientists also found that the concentration of total floating particles, then floating particles of greater diameter, and as well as these smaller ones, and contained pollutants statistically depend on weather conditions. For example, in Zagreb, the highest concentration can be recorded by floating particles at the moment the winds from the south-east direction are blowing, i.e. So-called The Southeast type of time and this points to the industrial zone of Zagreb as the main source of pollution by floating particles in the City of Zagreb. Fortunately, according to Zagreb and its inhabitants, this type of weather is the rarest and rarest wind from this direction. And this is one example of good spatial planning of industrial activities in large cities, and we may hope that thanks to the information provided by Croatian science. This law introduces a "critical" replacement for a "warning" level, but if deeper into the law, it is seen that the critical level would be lower than the warning level, indicating that the term may not be best chosen. Once again, the classification of air quality according to certain parameters is introduced, and in practice it opens up the possibility of one place being two parameters differently classified. That's one of the doubts that should somehow be resolved. Determination of areas and populated areas and their classification according to air quality categories is determined by the Government. However, it would be good for this to be done in cooperation with local and regional administrations and self-government units, as this would be in line with, not only democratic standards and decentralisation in the area of decision-making in which the local community should certainly be involved, especially since the local community is largely entrusted with air cleanliness concerns. The law lacks an important instrument for air protection because of Article 2. The Law on Air Protection states, this unprocessed version that the protection and improvement of air quality in the aim of sustainable development is based on the principles of environmental protection with a certain Environmental Protection Act and international rights requirements. The principle of sustainable development is a fundamental principle of environmental protection and air protection. We need to achieve air protection in a way that does not deprive its use today from future generations the possibility of using natural resources. In this case, clean air. The Air Protection Act provides instruments for corrective action, however, in the part of prevention and protection, and the implementation of the principle of sustainable development is somewhat inadequate and even insufficient. The law prescribes three categories of air quality. If the air is moderately polluted, it's II. Category, more polluted III. category. The law prescribes a method of corrective action. For category I, it is prescribed that air must remain permanent in category I, regardless of new construction. However, in areas I and II. Air quality categories, a new procedure in the environment or the reconstruction of an existing source of air pollution should not endanger the existing air quality category. However, this is not enough because it allows some new source of emissions, an industrial plant that is built in an area where air quality is significantly below the limit value practically fills the space to the limit value and no one can build anything in this place anymore. The impact of such an installation can be very high because in some areas concentrations of harmful substances are half the GV so it can contribute to the entire level of limit value. Each new procedure shall be subject to an environmental impact assessment procedure, and a strategic environmental study shall be carried out under the new Environmental Protection Act and for plans and programmes. There is no guarantee that the principle of sustainable development will be achieved through this process, as the investor has the right to also apply to the Air Law. It would therefore be good to introduce an additional burden allowed by law in areas I of the air category, and this cannot be in the jurisdiction of local administrations only as part of plans and programmes and then through environmental impact studies because general principles need to be defined at country level. The issue is, for example, with protected natural areas or areas of prominent cultural importance, and other countries have the practice of regulating additional burdens. Many other countries also define acceptable additional risks, and it would be good for the government, within the meaning of this first category of air, to provide guidance on the principles and criteria of determining the permitted burden, additional burden to enable long-term protection and to respect the principle of sustainable development. As far as inspection is concerned, the law gives very high authority to the inspection and according to the law, the inspector may order the suspension of production which is not generally questionable, as sometimes is necessary. The problem is that there are no additionally defined criteria, they are not correctly defined because they are not quantifiable therefore quantifiable. Article 87 says that "The incinerator should pay the penalty if it emits amounts that could endanger human health, quality of life or the environment". We need to explain what is meant by health. There is no definition of what these values are and it would be necessary for the Proposer to explain exactly what these values are and where they are defined. These are certainly not limit values, and they are neither tolerable, given that they are sizes that are actually not recognised by European legislation. And these aren't even critical values, because they're only defined for some pollutants. It does not mean that if short-term emissions are exceeded that health is indeed and endangered, because environmental concentrations can still be low. Croatia has no defined criteria for assessing the impact of unpleasant smells, which is a violation of the quality of life. It's an example of Sisak. There people are really hard to deal with unpleasant smells, but the levels of concentration are really below those that can affect health. It is necessary to clearly define criteria for assessing what is a health threat, a threat to the quality of life, or an excessive environmental impact. This will also provide objective criteria for more rigorous action. The inspection cannot act and accuse the industry of jeopardising health without having data on concentrations or having a reference value for some pollutants. The government should therefore define the criteria by a specific regulation and what air concentrations may be considered as jeopardising health, quality of life and excessive environmental impact as a criterion for immediate action and suspension of drive. As for the carrier of air quality monitoring operations in stations from the state network, this is entrusted to the State Hydrometeorological Institute. However, we believe that this should include also the scientific institutes and universities of the Republic of Croatia, which deal with the problem in question, since in this sphere of the academic and scientific community, those of the strongest social resources currently engaged, not only by examining the quality of health but also by examining the impact on health, and they are experienced in many other jobs related to the development of methodology and interpretation of results. Of course, it is a necessary law that, with these specific improvements, would be even better and the SDP club would support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6807	Thank you. An individual debate. Mrs. Representative Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6808	Thank you, Vice President. This proposal changes the Law on Air Protection, unfortunately, speaks about how much we have ecologically demoted the world in which we live. This reality of ours is the result of thinking and action that makes the Western man deeply immersed in a senseless consumerism, become the alpha and omega of everything, the only measure of all things. Due to the galloping climate change, the area of air protection and the suppression of aggressive greenhouse gases has become the most pro-pulsory space for both international and European political, legislative and economic activities. The climate change phenomenon has definitely become the topic of the main currents of social movements in both the world and Croatia. Although a few years ago, while I was working at the Ministry of Environmental Protection and sending statements in which we informed the Croatian public about Kyoto and the Montreal Protocol, the Ozone Covering Day and similar topics seemed to give more attention to these problems than ten years ago, the chaotic reality of the disturbed seasons and their previous features has escalated so much that it is no longer possible to ignore it. It says that the manifestations of climate change are increasingly visible, faster and more alarming. Because of everything that is happening to us every year more and more quickly, I am extremely suspicious of the weather forecasts that the catastrophic scenarios predict only from the middle to the end of this century. Five years ago, I was concerned about the effects of anthropogenic activity on the environment, but I optimisticly believed that responsible behavior, primarily the most responsible and richest countries in the world, and by applying Kyoto protocol provisions, could either stop or at least slow down the devastating consequences of the ruthless human destruction of the environment. Today, unfortunately, I don't believe it anymore. Because we still see in action every day that we don't want to change our anthropcentric, extremely egotistic view of the world, the belief that it's normal for us to be the people at the heart of all things. Because climate change is just the tip of the ice santa, the most visible manifestation of anthropogenic environmental destruction, and the prevention of uncontrolled greenhouse gas emissions to the environment, or over-pollution of the atmosphere, cannot effectively prevent the ecological disaster in which we have stepped down, and every day we sink more and more. While the media warns that overheating the country due to greenhouse gas emissions today is the biggest environmental problem facing the International Community, it is not entirely true, i.e. a major simplification of complex circumstances that have been systematically destroying the environment by human activities for decades and decades. I would like to remind you that in the 1980s, great attention was given to the text of Donelle Meadows "The Borders of Growth", which revealed the link between all relevant environmental degradation factors. The "Borders of growth" include accelerated industrialisation, uncontrolled population growth, widespread malnutrition, and the exploitation of non-renewable sources with environmental pollution. All previous elements are connected in many ways and the conclusion of the report is that the boundaries of growth on the planet will reach less than a hundred years if the current trend of all factors continues, which is industrialization, population growth, hunger in the world, depletion of natural resources, environmental degradation. This will result in a major decline in industrial production and a reduction in population. Meadow concludes that such a black forecast can be avoided by establishing conditions of economic and ecological stability that are sustainable in the future, or concludes that as soon as possible world policy accepts the realisation of the sustainable development of human society and moves forward with the implementation of sustainable development guidelines will show positive results of this policy. In the first global revolution, sustainable development theorists King and Schneider explain the idea of a great transition that we are in the early stages of the creation of a new model of the world society, which will be different from the model so far, and in the way that society created an industrial revolution was different from... the societies that preceded him. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In their opinion, the world is at the beginning of the first global revolution and this ecological revolution. Similar ideas were also presented by Vittorio Hosle in the Eco-crisis Philosophy, where he spoke about changing paradigms or announcing the shift in economic paradigm in which we are still living with an ecological paradigm that we are slowly entering and not thanks to our conscious choice but because we are being pressured by an increasingly negative ecological balance. Whether we're using the name big transition or changing paradigms, we're talking about the same phenomenon, the ecological revolution. It is known from history that the revolutions of whatever they are mean are quite brutally calculated with the current social model, or the violent arrival of a new model of society, and that is what I think will soon happen to us. They have advanced climate change, the explosion of the world's population, the increasingly scarce natural resources of oil, water, food, the inability to change the current market way of life, the growth of industry in all countries of the world, the globalisation trends, the general pollution of the environment and the moral indifference of humanity every day assure us. Although I have expressed great doubts in the debate so far about the possibility of positive action in order to cause a positive change, I still welcome the adoption of this law because I believe that the future will be easier if we prepare ourselves for a bad scenario as soon as possible. In this respect, I propose that the provisions of the laws concerning air pollution prevention measures be reformed in such a way as to introduce some variation of traffic restrictions, the authorisation of transport only to vehicles of public transport and transport, or to abolish the traffic of passenger vehicles in parts of cities and municipalities if the pollution of border values or cross-border values is. Namely, as you probably all know, traffic in Croatia has been the largest air pollutant in all years, so it is necessary to protect the environment more effectively and effectively to combat harmful emissions from transport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6809	Thank you. It is up to the honourable representative Stjepan Kundić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6810	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. There is no doubt that environmental protection is necessary for the quality of life of all of us present and future generations and it is important to combine continued economic growth in a way that is sustainable in the long term. It had already been said that the Air Protection Act was adopted in November 2004 and entered into force on 31 March 2005. It is in line with the provisions of the Directive governing air quality management and assessment and the implementing rules adopted under this law have been implemented to the greatest extent in this area. What exactly is being governed by this law? As the first fundamental objectives of air protection, then the meaning of concepts in terms of law. Then, institutional competence for the implementation of the law is determined, planning documents are drawn up and the public participates in their production. Then, a method is shown to monitor and determine air quality at national and local level. Classification there are areas of zones and agglomerations according to the air quality category. There is a record and monitoring of emissions and stationary sources, doing professional work, monitoring air quality and air emissions. Then, there are measures to prevent and reduce air pollution, meaning substances that damage ozone layer, greenhouse gases, information system in air quality. Then there are economic instruments, supervision, violations and fines. In 2006 and 2007, the Croatian Parliament adopted a series of international air protection contracts, so the Law on the Confirmation of the Stockholm Convention on... organic pollutants. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In 2007, the Environmental Protection Act was also passed, so it is necessary to comply with the provisions of the Air Protection Act with the Environmental Protection Act. Thus, air protection issues that were in the jurisdiction of the State Administration Office in the county are transferred to the administrative departments responsible for environmental protection in the county and city of Zagreb. Emission data shall be collected in the new united system of environmental pollution registers as set out in the Environmental Protection Act. The Environmental Protection Act is fully regulated in a new way in matters related to administrative and inspection supervision, and it is necessary to comply with the provisions of this law with the relevant provisions of the Air Protection Act. As the Law of Infringement was passed in the meantime, it is also necessary to comply with this law to comply with the Law on Air Protection. During the three years following the entry into force of this law, significant complementarity of international agreements in the area of climate protection and greenhouse gas emissions requiring certain amendments to the Air Protection Act has been adopted. Also, on 27 April 2007, the Republic of Croatia ratified the Kyoto Protocol with the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, which took effect on 28 August 2007. As part of its strategy to combat climate change, the EU Protocol and Kyoto have introduced the world's first emissions trading system. The EU governments issue a schedule for industrial and energy business entities which empower them to emit carbon dioxide, the main greenhouse gas, to a certain limit. Companies that do not use all their certificates can sell surpluses to companies that want to avoid expensive fines associated with overcoming their emission thresholds. The Commission has also proposed extending the emissions trading programme to airlines. Air carriers contribute to 3 per cent of gas and greenhouse emissions, but air travel is growing very fast and aircraft emissions could deny a quarter of the emission reductions needed for the energy industry in the Kyoto Protocol. Obligations under the Kyoto Protocol only last until 2012, but the Commission has already launched policy consultations on climate change since 2012. So there's also a greenhouse gas emission register. Therefore, in addition to national greenhouse gas monitoring, the parties are obliged to establish a greenhouse gas emission register in which they will record and calculate the transactions of mission units representing one tonne of carbon dioxide equivalent. A country party to the Kyoto Protocol shall be granted the amount of emissions, i.e. the quota of emission units to be released in the period from 2008 to 2012. From the final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Air Protection Act, I will quote some important articles. For example, Article 3 states that they exist under points, under paragraphs, means substitute substances. These are florad gases that contribute to global warming and need to be monitored. Then the term “critical level. ” The level of pollution is based on scientific knowledge beyond which harmful effects can occur on receptors such as plants, trees or natural eco systems, and excluding humans. Then there is the term “average indicators of complexity”. Therefore, the average level of pollution determined by measurements at the measurement stations to monitor background urban pollution, reflecting the exposure of the population. The upper limit of concentration is the level of pollution established on the basis of scientific knowledge, and in order to prevent unduly high risks to human health, which should be achieved within a certain period and which may not be exceeded once it has been achieved. The mechanism, then there's the concept of emissions trading, we've already said that. The Kyoto Protocol instrument allowing trade with emission units between the parties shall be annexed to one UNFCC. Then, there is a transaction of the recorded transfer of coffee to the emission units achieved either by the trading process or by other means. International transaction log. The central electronic database of the Secretariat for monitoring the regularity of the transaction between the registered systems set out in the Kyoto Protocol. A supervised person. So, the term legal person and a natural person, a craftsman registered to perform an activity. Article 11 speaks, so according to the levels of pollution, it says that there is the first category of air quality, second and third. The first is when the air is clean or slightly polluted. So no limit values and long-term targets for ozone are exceeded. The second category of air quality is moderately polluted air when the limit values and long-term targets for ozone are exceeded and the tolerance values and target values for ozone are not exceeded. And third category air quality. It's excessively polluted air. So the tolerance values and target values for the ozone are exceeded. The air quality category referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be determined for each pollutant in particular. Determination of areas and populated areas and their classification according to air quality categories is determined by the Government. Item 4 of the air quality category shall be determined once a year for the past calendar year. Article 5 of the Annual Report on air quality monitoring in the country with a list of air quality categories shall be produced by the Environment Protection Agency and published on the website. I'd like to say one more thing about Article 12 where air quality monitoring operations in national air quality monitoring stations. So, data collection, quality checking, data measurement, processing and presentation, data delivery in the air protection information system, maintenance and service of stations and equipment, and the construction of new stations in the state network is carried out by the State Hydrometeorological Institute. Control of air quality monitoring operations in stations from the state air quality monitoring network is carried out by the ministry. Some reference to Article 14 means that it has paragraph 1. In cases where there is a suspicion that air pollution has occurred, the quality of which is such that it may disrupt human health, the quality of life or the adverse effect of any environmental component must be measured for specific purposes or evaluated for the level of pollution. Article 2 The city headship of the City of Zagreb, i.e. the city and municipality, determines the justification of the doubt referred to in paragraph 1 of this article and decides on the measures of special purpose with the content and period of measurement or assessment of the level of pollution. Article 3 At the request of an environmental inspection to determine the justification of the suspicion referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, the City of Zagreb, the city and municipality shall make a decision to measure the specific purpose or assessment of the level of pollution within three days. The Croatian Democratic Community will support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Air Protection Act with the Final Proposal for an Emergency Procedure Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6811	Thank you very much. It's the honorary representative Ivan Shantek.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6812	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Air Protection Act. Although the Air Protection Act was passed relatively recently in 2004, it came into force in early March 2005 and was in line with the relevant European Union directives. Here are the conditions for this law to be amended, i.e. to remove certain inaccuracies and inaccuracies of the law, and also to remove them with applicable laws that have been passed in the meantime, such as the Environmental Protection Act and also the Criminal Law. Of course, there is also a Croatian protocol which, under the United Nations Convention on Climate Change, has also affected the amendments and additions to the laws. Although at first sight it is about technical harmonisation of laws for us from Sisak-Moslavina County that is important any change that is happening in this area, in the area of air quality protection. Here is the recent marking of Planet Day Earth happened during media releases of pollution data, unfortunately Sisak-Moslavina County, or cities in Sisak-Moslavina County, Sisak and Kutina again found themselves in a very low air quality location. Sisak is even mentioned as being in the third category, so the worst category. However, we had the opportunity here to hear on the "current clock" that it was not a third category, but that it was a second category of air quality which from us in Sisak-Moslavina County is also not satisfying, because we want for our citizens to want the air to be first quality and that all citizens of our county deserve it. The reasons why such a situation in Sisak is, in any case, clear, and that is a large amount of industry that was there. Sisak-Moslavina County had as much as 27% of the former Yugoslavia industry before the war, however, some companies remain, and the refinery is still very active today, as well as the thermal power plant, as well as the Kutina Petrokemia. What has been a significant improvement since 2005 when this law came into force, and we can also say freely since the government was Dr. Eva Sanader in the last term was that measured stations were introduced where our citizens can at any time monitor air quality, i.e. they can see figures that say what level of pollution is and whether it is actually allowed or exceeded. It is also sensitized by the public, so that the local media reacts very quickly to any excess of pollution and these are the good things that have been in this law that is now changing. What he would point out here is, in any case, the most important project for the city of Sisak, i.e. for the refinery, which is a detour company, the popular Klaus, which is worth 24 million kuna by half last year, i.e. now the facility is already finished. I'm just going to tell you how much sulfur pollution was from the refinery, and that's that the klaus plant is produced daily between 25 and 40 tons of sulfur that would otherwise end up in the air. This process of modernization has not been completed and we are still satisfied until the city of Sisak air is the best quality, but large steps have been made. What we heard in the current hour a few days ago was what we actually wanted to hear, when Mr. Vice President Polancec said that the first stage concerning the absence of popular "Klaus" was over, that by the end of autumn would be the end of the second phase... And also by the end of 2009, there will be a third phase, it is an isomerisation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The second phase will be over by the end of 2011, and that is what makes us happy. These amendments and additions to the applicable Air Protection Act will contribute even more significantly to the fact that large and small contaminants comply with the law because it is also in line with the European acquis, but also with the applicable laws, as well as with the new Criminal Law, and I will support these amendments and additions to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6813	Thank you very much. Keep going. It is next for the debate, the distinguished representative Ivan Bagarić. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. Next, according to the reports, the debate followed by distinguished representative Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6814	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here, as usual we all say before us is the law and that one. I'm going to skip that, so I'm going to say that air pollution is usually a very serious problem of the time that we live in today, which we're all really aware of, and we know how much it affects us primarily in human health, how much it affects the quality of life in any, so at any level and in any environment and space at all. The main pollutants, substances that come into the air, and amongst other sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, smoke, floating particles, heavy metals, etc. are also listed. We are today one of the first generations that we can in fact in some way fear, but we should also all work together, each resident individually to avoid all those unpredictable things that are before us every day starting with many extreme times and events around us. It should be said that the Republic of Croatia is one that fits more and more every day, has blended in with the world's long-term efforts to prevent global warming and mitigate the adverse effects of climate change. This determines, primarily the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, but also a protocol at a convention known as the Kyoto Convention, which the Republic of Croatia ratified in April 2007. What's the point? The aim is to establish stability of concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. Croatia also received a commitment by 2012 to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions by 5% compared to 1990. In 2004, these emissions amounted to 6.6 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent per capita, the largest resulting from the use of fossil fuels in the production of electricity and heat, but also in transport as a significant category. I believe that awareness of the question, this issue is still on the rise every day and that it is this worrying factor that we have to pay attention to, and we can see it from several examples in our field as well. First of all, the wind's potential has already begun to be exploited. The best indicator of this is the wind power plants on Pag and in the vicinity of Sibenik. Furthermore, forest biomass, heating wood, and waste from cutting trees are becoming increasingly exploited. As an energy that can be successfully replaced and lush oil in boilers, cogeneration of both electricity and heat energy is possible in heat. It means something that we have to take as an assumption of a serious shift in our thinking, in raising the level of endangerment of everyday life of people, plants, animals, etc. So these are assumptions that we must think about and that we must cherish. Of course, the future also has production in small hydropower plants as well as the exploitation of geothermals and solar energy. These are the same things that we need to think deeply about and that must be encouraging, I hope, for all of us. What is also signifiable in my opinion is that in Croatia, biodiesel production is the same as diesel fuel, but CO2 is neutral, which is very important. Namely, the raw material from which it can be produced is either, oil rape, and the amount of carbon dioxide produced by combustion was fuel equal to the amount that the plant absorbs from the air by the process of photosynthesis and that is what it would install into its bio mass. So that's also encouraging, that's what we should try to use, but also develop more and more because it's not enough for me yet. Many of us think that we should also give an accent on the production of bio diesel, because it can be produced from waste edible oils while it is also possible to produce bioethanol as a substitute for gasoline. These are things that probably haven't quite come to terms yet, but here they are right in front of us. So there are assumptions of their development, there are assumptions of moving in that direction and clearly in any case avoiding every day as much as possible of some catastrophic and atmosphere as possible, but also of what is important and primary, and that is to preserve man and human health. In any case, the most cost-effective measures for reducing greenhouse gas emissions can be essentially reduced in such a way that every person in Croatia rationally starts to use specific examples for the sake of electricity in households. There are many things that people have probably not read about so far, nor have they moved away from what is therefore classical, which is primarily the use of, say, energy saving bulbs that can be used for less use of electricity, then household appliances that are high energy efficiency. This can also be done by improving the thermal insulation of roofs, walls, openings in apartments, etc. It's just before, and there's absolutely my support my colleague Holly mentioned the economic use of a personal car. I mean these are things that we also need to think about together as it is about the previous topic and this point of the agenda on... It's avoiding waste generation. [[You don't understand.]] So we need to control it possible. But also recycling and composting was a building waste. So it's all an assumption of what we're talking about, and it's a reduction in greenhouse gases, a healthier life, and also a preservation of what we've actually partly ruined ourselves. In an effort to master nature, it is important to say that man created science, and among other disciplines and chemistry. We owe her a number of improvements in life, but the same chemistry has created numerous toxins and tens of thousands of toxic chemicals that end up in nature and air. Of course I'm not against chemical science because I know what it means and what it means to me. But I would have apostrophe here that nobody said today, but I hope that many people know it, and it's going to support it, and that's that every day between what we have in the air, we have one silent killer that many people don't want to mention, and I don't know why it's not mentioned anywhere, dioxin. He's a silent and undercover killer. Why? Well, firstly it's proven and it's known that on the toxicity scale he's in fourth place, right behind botulism, tetanus and diphtheria. So it's a poison created by the burning of organic waste. So he's connected to the subject we're talking about, and everything like smoke goes up, he comes back. It goes back to grass, fruit, vegetables, water, we can count anything. It'll all be eaten and drank someday, and it'll all end up in a food chain, and at the end of that chain is a man. So not saying where we have it all and where we find it all, we don't even think we know where, we even have it in diesel fuel. So we have him in the fire of wood, he falls everywhere, he lays down everywhere. A lot of people think cancer only comes from tobacco, but it's not from above, and he's that silent killer that nobody thinks for sure. I know it's the end of time. However, as it is in this law, I would ultimately say in order to make air protection and climate protection better in the Republic of Croatia, so several measures that are indeed encouraging, the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the Law are proposed and I will raise my hand for these changes by urgent procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6815	Thank you very much. According to reports, it is up to the hearing of distinguished counterpart Zdenko Franic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6816	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. In this debate, I would refer to two aspects of the law. The first is the fact that air quality monitoring operations in stations from the state network are related to data collection, quality measurement and data verification, processing and presentation of results, data delivery to the air protection information system, maintenance and service of stations and equipment, and the construction of new stations in the state network, entrusted to the State hydrometeorological institution. However, it should consider including in this statement the possibility of including scientific institutes and universities in the Republic of Croatia dealing with the problem. In fact, small countries of the size of the Republic of Croatia need to include all available resources in the monitoring and control system of environmental parameters including air quality. We're too small to dismiss such a possibility easily. For appropriate environmental protection not only a binary approach, there is or no pollution, or there is a limit allowed, no limit reached but trends should be analysed, trends should be monitored in order to correctly conclude the necessary measures in the event of any extraordinary event. The law implicitly, and in fact explicitly predicts that the measurement of parameters from this area will be carried out by automatic automated cells, stations. Here is one opportunity to see at the corner of Miramarska and Vukovarska Street which has been in operation for a long time. However, the fact is that gravimetric methods are still very important and complementary to such automatic cells today. Namely, without sufficient air volume pumping over a sufficiently long period of time, particles can be concluded, whether they are those total floating particles, 10 micrometers or 2.5 micrometer particles. Furthermore, the law also provides for the need for the accreditation of laboratories to deal with air quality emissions and testing, but the fact is that such accredited laboratories need both the service and the assistance of moderate or calibration laboratories that need to validate measuring instruments that are being tested for air quality. In terms of the Law on Measurement and the need to establish the National Measurement Institute as the holder of fundamental measurement in the Republic of Croatia, such moderate laboratories in the countries of the size of Croatia can exist only within the scientific academic community, so they can be located at institutes or universities, because market justification is unlikely to be found by any privateer because of a very small demand in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, such level of expertise and additional value of monitoring air quality can only provide science and thus help the profession, in this case to the State Hydrometeorological Institute. Furthermore, Article 14 of this Amendment on Amendments and Supplements to the Law provides that in Article 27 of that old law, in cases where air pollution has been suspected, the quality of which is such as to distort human health, the quality of life and/or the adverse impact of any environmental component must be measured for a specific purpose or to carry out an assessment of the level of pollution. Thus, this article also refers to laboratories that already possess a level of expertise, such as a laboratory in many public health institutions or institutes or colleges. Therefore, here is a group of MPs who have made an amendment that, as with the business holder, the State Hydrometeorological Institute is also inserting a sentence "with the inclusion of scientific institutes and universities of the Republic of Croatia which deal with the problem". So it's a really benign expression that only gives full support to the profession that in the Republic of Croatia from this issue, fortunately is at a high level. Furthermore, I find it extremely good that the law provides for accreditation according to the 17025 standard. It is also good that the deadline has been shifted by one year, by the end of 2009. However, the fact is that the accreditation of the laboratory guarantees one non-partisan third party guarantee, that laboratories are trained to have competence of the method, to deal with the issue. This statement is, and this proposal has caused a lot of debates within the air protection profession so far, because there are no such solutions in Europe, but why would Croatia not also be ahead of the fact that some laboratories have already successfully mastered all the necessary advances and will soon get accreditation for this activity. As a set of quality infrastructures, accreditation is an extremely important segment of the approximation of the Republic of Croatia into full membership of the European Union, as Article 73. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement requires the Republic of Croatia to have a regulated quality infrastructure. And that's good, that right on the air protection segment one such approach here the government has brought. Unfortunately, I'm not sure the air quality inside the assembly is in line with the standards, so it should actually be examined, because it seems to me that one and the same air is always circulating over dry ice, so it's well and tempered, but as far as floating particles are concerned, let me express my deepest suspicion that we're breathing quality air. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6817	How do you measure air quality in the Assembly?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6818	It would be worth one of these laboratories in which Mr. Ruzinski lords call, because several laboratories in the Republic of Croatia are dealing with this problem and it is actually very easy to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6819	Then you'll look back on this initiative in the final word, because we're all interested in air quality in the assembly. Mr. Representative Davor Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6820	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So here's from an ecological manifest that's actually been present for a long time, and it's been updated in just the time around Planet Earth Day, the Environment Day actually knows three of the most important things about environmental protection and planet protection. This is the protection of drinking water sources, air protection and the use of renewable energy resources. I must say when, looking at this law, which provides for compliance with the European Commission's directives, the way or the deadlines, means through the state network, and then, after that, through the State Hydrometeorological Institute, air quality monitoring mechanisms. And mechanisms and sanctions, or penalties. But what I'm actually a little concerned about is that we have the law that we're harmonising again, we have a law that will be formally legal in the parts of harmony, but the fact is that we won't have a way, that is. to find ways to implement the law in question. Because, let's face it, it's not a Croatian problem. Croatia has no heavy industry. We're not a petrol state, we're not China, we're not the United States. We greenhouse gases to the extent that they're released by those states that aren't signatories to Kyoto, so we can dream of them. Croatia, therefore, has no industry and Croatia will, in one part of this law, in some ways and burden the existing industry that will not be able to adapt in part. The deadline of one year is good, but the fact is that I have to warn you of two things, and that is the excess of emissions means through the greenhouse gas register that individual legal persons as entities will have to pay additionally if they transfer the standard annually. So in some ways, the law is consciously passed knowing that they will not be able to fulfill it. And the other thing is a discrepancy with the Infringement Act, though, with a detailed prediction of certain penalties. And that's what's kind of missing, or it seems like it's not good and we're just going to sign that phase, and we're going to be easy to implement. I must point out that the UK is the country that is most agile and active in reforming education called the Bologna Reform. But she's not a signer, though. So the regular ministerial conference, which essentially united 47, is now being held by the state to implement the same Bologna reform, did not include the UK, although they are agile. So, in principle, let's do it first, and then we'll sign when we're sure we can spend time. Unfortunately, as a result, and this was also the case before reading the state budget itself and presenting the government's programme, and there was talk of high oil prices, meaning fossil fuels, energys, as a strong blow to the world economy, as a strong blow and, among other things, the Croatian economy did not have much to do and there should be real and there should be a draw. Unfortunately, the European Commission is aware of these facts, and fortunately, has given the directive and the European Commission is aiming at making the level of renewable energy sources up to 20% by 2020. By 2010, they gave a 10% deadline that is unreachable from this perspective, although many countries like Great Britain, Ireland, the Scandinavian part, which invest a lot in ecology and renewable energy sources, clean from the country's precise base of movement, are trying to implement that story by 2010. By 2020, precisely because of the high emissions of greenhouse gases, precisely due to climate change caused by air pollution, precisely because of the global market energy crisis, high prices, the European Commission gave the directive by 2020, renewable energy sources are placed on 20% of all energy sources. I must also express my regret, but I must express one commendation and one regret. The commendation is related to the fact that HEP has approached certain things related to solving the problem of renewable energy sources, especially building two new wind power plants, and that's good, and that's done for the last few years and there, I hope the story won't stop, that it will go even more agile. However, this year's budget provides for less funding for subsidies to companies outside the public sector to boost renewable energy sources. I gave the amendment. Unfortunately, he wasn't accepted. The minister gave an excuse. Partly with that justification, I can agree. Of course, there will be no room or opportunity to realise this item means the subsidy itself, but there will be no space or opportunity precisely because there is no strategy where the Croatian industry is going, there is no strategy in which part of it we want to develop and there is no strategy, or the modernisation of consciousness in our heads and heads of our entrepreneurs that renewable energy sources are actually something where we need to invest because in 4 years we will have to face the European Commission directives, so I hope then already as a member of the European Union, and then we will be quite in the grip and panic to implement all these certain measures. And here, I would really like to see that in the next state budget a lot more resources would be provided precisely for this item, because protection, air quality is only one of the segments of the overall environmental protection, and Croatia as a country with great ecological potential, Croatia as a country with a strong hydropotential, in every sense, and in terms of the source of drinking water should be the one that will give a certain advantage and should be the one that will lead a particular role, and also towards the European Union, today, tomorrow, when we are members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6821	Thank you. Final review, Secretary of State Nikola Ruzhinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6822	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, like you said first about air quality in the assembly room. I can't say whether the quality is good or not, but it's to measure, however, it's not the subject of this law, but it's a matter of work space. The problems of floating particles, as the distinguished representative Franic mentioned, is indeed one of the problems that is emerging more and more in the system. We have certain possibilities to measure these floating particles, the contents of other air components and it exists, I don't know how much I am allowed here today in the assembly to talk about someone who might get a job measuring, but certainly it's the Ruđer Boskovic Institute, the Institute of Medical Research, so IMI. These are institutes that have an international reputation and can certainly be involved in this problem. I don't know if this class can measure such tiny particles, but PM 10 can. So you can do two and a half. So, I'm extremely glad that it's important that in exactly the whole procedure that's given to this law, when we go back to the outside air, it's important that we can control what we've prescribed by law. One of these things is certainly this control that is being carried out in Sisak and which is currently being carried out and thus that the floating particles are also being measured towards concentration in the air and it is proving to be the impact of all these substances. I would now say only two, three words to thank for the support or the fact that here we see everyone in this, who has reported, all MPs, and that is obviously a general opinion, consider such a law or activities that are particularly related to climate protection extremely significant. The position of the Republic of Croatia is quite sensitive in this area. You know that we have signed, or this Parliament has ratified the Kyoto Protocol after several years of difficult negotiations within the World Community, within the United Nations. But what is in the future, which is Postkyoto, which predicts far, far more stringent measures and predicts a world community's determination to ultimately tackle global climate change. I must say that everything that has been going on for the last two years, perhaps two years, not much more globally in the framework of the United Nations, and especially at European Union level, shows that more and more countries are involved in the fight against climate. Developed countries, the United States has started one more active role in this, still not enough. The problem is developing countries, India and China, which are hoarding the industry that is fleeing from the developed part of the world there and they are slowly under pressure starting to think about it. It is certain that the European Union plays a leading role in the fight against climate, and we as future members of the European Union must be guided in this direction. One way to solve it is certainly renewable energy sources. And they're doing big procedures, they're doing energy strategy. There's a lot of research, especially in the field of wind use. Hydropotential, I'm not talking about drinking water right now, but energy, unfortunately, is very high-exploited with us so we have relatively small possibilities, but there are still small hydrothermias. Biofuels, biodiesel, bioethanol are challenges and imperatives, but in the world today, there's a lot of talk about the sustainability of that system, so whether fuel food, whether it's supposed to be done or turned to what's being said today are second-generation biofuels, which is waste from wood biomass, waste from agriculture that we have to specifically turn to. But it's getting into biodiversity again. So the situation is extremely complicated and serious and the world is facing it. And Croatia must, at least with its contribution, no matter how small a contribution to the total balance, we must make our contribution. And that is why it is nice to hear when the Croatian Parliament supports such laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6823	Thank you very much. I'm closing this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6824	Seven. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Air Protection Act. It was an emergency procedure. P.Z. No. 49. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Here you go. Those MPs. The Legislative Committee first. Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6825	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6826	It becomes an integral part of this law. Then Amendment 2. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6827	That's acceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6828	Thank you. It's getting complicated. Amendment 3. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6829	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6830	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6831	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6832	It also becomes an integral part of the article. 5. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6833	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6834	Thank you. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6835	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6836	Article 7
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6837	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6838	Article 8
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6839	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6840	All these amendments become an integral part of the laws that have been adopted. Furthermore, Mr Zdenko Franic, Mrs Mirela Holly and Luke Denon's amendment to Article 11.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6841	Amendments are not accepted. The determination of the area according to categories shall be determined by the Government. And of course, the government will cooperate and must cooperate, i.e. the ministry that proposes to the government those areas. And both regional and local self-government, and they are obliged to supply certain data related to the air.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6842	Here you go. Sir... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6843	We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6844	The vote. Who's for this amendment raise your hand? Which the government doesn't accept. Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. In accordance with Article 23 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the European Parliament and the Council are to be published in the Official Journal of the
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6845	The amendment is not accepted. For the reason that someone must be a business holder and a budget money must also be in accordance with the Budget Law at the position of a body that is in the budget, which is the State Hydrometeorological Institute. It is clear that the Hydrometeorological Institute, and that has been working so far, and you, Mr. Franic, know how to cooperate with both IMI and other scientific institutions. But the job that goes through the budget must be through someone who's holding a position in the state budget, and that can only be the State Hydrometeorological Institute if it's not the Ministry now. Here, just for that reason. This is quite clear, and so far, these measurements and jobs between the ministry have been called for and implemented in all the important, scientific institutions and universities that we have in Croatia dealing with this matter. It's about monitoring this state air and data network, processing and managing concerns about all this, as well as the question of competitions and the like. It has to go through the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6846	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Franic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6847	However, the law really implies that scientific institutions should also participate in analyses, especially gravimetric methods and in the case of calibration. So this is the ultimate benign amendment that simply sanctions what you yourself said was clear. But why wouldn't it actually be as precise as it is? The budget can be changed accordingly next year, and this year it can be donated from the budget of the State Hydrometeorological Institute to the institutes in these cases in which you have said. Here's the vote I'm asking for.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6848	Thank you. Who is for this amendment to raise your hand? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Air Protection Act together with the amendments adopted. Please, let's get involved and vote. I'm asking for a result. This law has been adopted with the majority of 112 votes for, 7 abstentions and 1 against, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6849	Let's go to the next - Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Special Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on the implementation of the implementation phase of the project "Corruption of Agricultural Land in Croatia", emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 51 The Proposer is Government. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development and by the Committee on Law. The same committees have submitted amendments. You received the reports at the session. Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development Minister Bozidar Pankretic will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6850	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. So here is the Law on the Confirmation of the Special Treaty on the Implementation of the Implementation Phase of the "Corruption of Agricultural Land in Croatia" project with the Final Proposal of the Law. Allow me before I say anything about the measure of the law itself to say two, three sentences I would say about something that is these days, and I'm afraid that in the future it will be much more pronounced, and that's the question of food. Food anyway gets on its full meaning. We know all the consequences of what's happening. Therefore, we are all obliged to try to see as much as possible to supply our citizens and, in particular, to enable our agricultural producers to produce food. In order to produce food, they need that basic resource and that's land. Unfortunately, we have small properties in Croatia. The subtlety of production surfaces creates major problems and restrictions in the organisation of profitable and efficient agricultural production. The main limiting factors for the rapid development of agriculture and rural areas in the Republic of Croatia and the improvement of the competitiveness of Croatian agriculture is in the environment of the European Union. The possible solution to this problem is the circulation of agricultural land. The process of rounding up agricultural land in terms of increasing the production area and improving the forms of production parcels is the consequence of, among other things, the efficiency of the agricultural land market. The strategy of agriculture and fisheries of the Republic of Croatia recognised and identified the necessity of implementing the rounding of agricultural areas in the Republic of Croatia and the arrangements of agricultural areas in order to improve the production efficiency of agricultural holdings and encourage the development of rural areas. Of course, to that end, here to kind of round up agricultural areas, and we have a specific project. We are working together with the Swedish government, along with local and regional self-government. The budget of the project in that part is Swedish funds of 13 million 369 thousand kuna. Croatian funds from the budget 10 million 410 thousand kuna and local and regional self-government are participating with 3 million 290 thousand and 100 kuna. In any case, I would like to stress that in this part of the meaning is surrounded except for these I would say Swedish funds and our donations, local and regional self-government which significantly affects this part of the work we do in this section. The project partners are apart from the Ministry and the Swedish Cooperation Agency of the Municipality of Vidovec and Varazdin County, the Municipality of Tompoevci and Vukovar-Srijem County, the Municipality of Vinodolska, the town of Novi Vinodolski and Primorje-Gorski County and the town of Vrbovac, the municipality of Krasec and Zagreb County. The pilot projects are being implemented at all of these five locations, the implementation of the programme is being launched. The project components are the implementation of a project to round up agricultural land in these locations, the establishment and operation of bodies responsible for the implementation of the project, support and establishment of the Agricultural Land Agency and the establishment of a land fund instrument, support for the development of regulations and regulation of agrarian commercial operation, the implementation of promotional activities and education. Maybe a few sentences I'd just like to say about the most important parts of what we want to achieve in this part about this project itself. I'd say he's the predecessor of what we put into our government's work programme, but also the ministry, that's in the future the creation of the Agricultural Land Agency. Of course, in this way we see how many problems we have in the field, how many problems we have property-legal problems from the grantshop to the catastrophe, but in any case we try to solve these problems directly through our exposures. Where we are through pilot projects to start certain things, certain progress is evident and I must say that we will hit that much easier in a certain way and the foundations of the future Agriculture Land Agency. In any case, this kind of project will enable us not only to start this rounding process on principle here and this contract with Sweden but also, of course, according to those of our programmes that fit into this particular activity. Here, I would like to ask the honourable representatives and MPs to support this Law confirming the Special Contract on the implementation of the implementation phase of the "Corruption of Agricultural Land in Croatia". We have received amendments relating to the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development and to the Committee on Law which has been adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6851	Thank you. The Agriculture Committee? Legislative? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club Mr. Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6852	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Special Treaty of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on the Implementation of the Implementation Phase of the Project "Corruption of Agricultural Land in the Republic of Croatia" with the Final Proposal for the Law. The Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the adoption of this law because this law allows for the continued implementation of the project in April 2006 with the Swedish agency Sida on piloted agricultural land rounding projects in the Republic of Croatia. Also, the HDZ Club supports the adoption of this law because it is on the verge of implementing structural reforms in agriculture, reforms that are tasked with increasing competitiveness and income but also ensuring sustainable development of Croatian agriculture. In the past term, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has launched several operational programmes in agriculture, which have been a fundamental objective for a series of incentive measures to reroute agricultural production from extensive to high income, which will make producers more income and which will make more profitable the potentials that we have at our disposal including agricultural land. These operational programmes from the operational programme for the raising of permanent crops, from irrigation programmes, operational programmes for the development of livestock production, new capacity for refrigerators, etc., all these operational programmes form the backbone of agricultural policy and are targeted which is particularly important to the production of which we are unfortunately recording large imports and which will also be subject to negotiations on production quotas with the European Union, but also to the production of the largest income to producers. But the key problem in their implementation was just the problem of agricultural land. These problems related to agricultural land have been partly inherited. This is primarily the problem of the small area of possessions, on average below 3 hectares, a large number of small and technologically unrelated parcels and a large distance from these parcels, which clearly raises the economicity of production and then partly due to the tightening of deadlines, insufficient engagements or insufficient administrative capacity of certain municipalities and cities in the implementation of the Law on the availability of agricultural land owned by the State. As a result, the Croatian Democratic Community club maintains that if we want to ensure the profitability and competitiveness of Croatian agriculture in the long term, ensuring that products of agricultural and food industries compete equally in the markets of the European Union, it is necessary, with all measures taken in the reform of the restructuring of Croatian agriculture from the change of the support system to the implementation of a series of operational programmes, to speed up the process of availability to the state-owned agricultural land and also to speed up the activities on the rounding of agricultural land. This process is neither simple nor cheap and neither will it be quick and therefore a lot of effort should be made, additional administrative capacity should be provided, and above all we think and consider the necessary need for the establishment and establishment of the Agricultural Land Agency with facilities on the ground means that we would also coordinate this business of rounding and managing these experiences from the project with the Swedish Government. And also in this business to implement all the best experiences of the European Union countries on land circulation. The rounding should, in a technical sense, group parcels, increase ownership and rationalise production. Interesting data are available according to the 2003 agricultural list and according to the register of the Ministry of Agriculture of Agricultural Producers and also their comparison with the countries of the European Union. So according to the 2003 agricultural list, out of 450 thousand producers, which includes agricultural households, companies, crafts and other averages of farmland per producer is 2.4 hectares. The second information which is something better and it is the producers that are registered in the register of the Ministry of Agriculture and which, on the basis of their production, receive both state support and incentives. Therefore, according to the register of 151 thousand 692 producers who process about a million and 20 thousand hectares of surface area is on average 6.7 hectares per manufacturer. When these data are compared, we take only one England in 1955 when one producer had a surface area of 26.5 hectares, in 2003 it climbed to 68 hectares. So, the estates circled and the possessions doubled. He's in Sweden at 14.2 ha '55. In 2003, it rose to 42 ha. So more than triple. In France from 12 ha to 36 ha in 2003. So we have one rounding process, an increase in land, a clear increase in competitiveness and agricultural production while in Croatia we have the information that in 1955 the average land and land size per producer was 3 and a half hectares, while here today, that is, in 2003 when both the last measurement and the list of 2.4 ha were made. Therefore, it is clear that over the 50 years socialism has also left a mark on the structure of agricultural production, especially on the structure of land, and it is clear that we cannot and can not easily compete with and deal with the competition of European countries that have had reverse processes, which have circled the property and which in this sense can be more rational and profitable in business. The biggest problem is that very historical legacy. It was an agrarian maximum of 10 ha. There was a restriction on ownership, which was in line with the socialist non-market economy at the time, and which, historically, has left a devastating impact on the structure and market power of Croatian agriculture. Another problem that is also important is the problem of inheriting agricultural land and this is the problem that developed agricultural countries in the European Union have addressed properly. Namely, the big problem here is especially in this part of which I come to Slavonia and Baranja alone is precisely the problem of inheriting and sharing that country. So, dividing those parcels into even less. Thus, each child was given a parcel which, when viewed in one historical continuity, had a significant impact on the structure of that land, on the size of these properties. As regards the countries of the European Union, they have resolved this in a way that the country cannot be divided by the inheritance of a country, but rather by giving the country to that child, who, given certain criteria, whether this is a completed school related to agriculture, whether it is an affinity or something else. So, which is assigned to one child and where the inheritance does not result only in a reduction in the property due to inheritance. What is good and what is happening in practice as a process is the fact that entrepreneurs in agriculture who buy land and round up land to increase production, that they are, in fact, in an indirect way, spontaneously implementing the process of rounding up land. Nevertheless, the country needs to play an important role. We used to have a lot of business. Let's remember '97. The Law of Compassion. However, it is clear that such a form of communication that has been directed from the bottom down, so that it is not sustainable today, that it is unconstitutional and that it would encroach on the rights of ownership of each individual of landowners. And that's why he's resorting to this form that, which goes with these pilot projects, with the Swedish agency. So, where a system of voluntary circulation is just being introduced, which does not bring this constitutional and guaranteed ownership rights to each individual of landowners, they are actually going to that circle voluntarily. Of course it's a very painful, difficult process. But at this point, he is showing good results after only two years of implementation. We could say, in principle, that it's a volunteer based primarily on profit. It is clear that by rounding this land it will become competitive, that production on it will become competitive and it is clear that the interest of our producers is going in this direction and therefore we welcome both the realization of this project and the continuation of its realization. That is why, as the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, we will support this law and we hope that in its own way, therefore, given all the administrative capacities it will create, all those experiences that will be built into it will help round the land, which means ultimately increasing the competitiveness and profitability of Croatian agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6853	Thank you. SDP's club, Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6854	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club will also support the adoption of this law, and we estimate that good is one of these interstate activities, because there is also a certain quality in both legislative and practical terms. The contract itself says that the purpose of this project is, in fact, that the project has two purposes. That this is the development and development of the legal, organisational, institutional, technical and management framework and the improvement of the ability to participate in decision-making processes. So, very specifically, these 30 million funds will be used and will benefit from the rounding up of agricultural land. How important a project to round up agricultural land can be read from certain statistics. So, from the list of agricultural regiments since 2003. Unfortunately, the situation has not changed more significantly, so such data are mostly with certain corrections. Thus, nearly 450,000 agricultural households that possess a certain amount were listed at that time, the area of agricultural land and were recorded as living nearly a million and 500% of the population. So it's one big potential for this branch of activity, but on the other hand it's a big problem, because it's also a large number of households and populations that are registered as farmers. At that time, nearly 1,400 agricultural entities were registered, so that companies, companies, companies, companies with limited liability. It is owned, or available with a million and 162000 ha. Of which there is a little more than a million hectares of land in use and as it is narrowed down tells the data that this area is located in nearly two million plots. So there's really a lot of work to do here, and it takes time to come up with a bigger property. It is also interesting to know that almost a little more than 380 thousand households have up to 5 hectares of land, and that is exactly the part that should actually be a source for rounding up property and in some way establishing those households, or those agricultural entities that will be engaged in long-term agriculture. In addition to forests and water, agricultural land must actually be of special, property of particular national interest. This is also the subject of Article 52 of the Croatian Constitution and should indeed be given special attention in the management, in raising the bonuses of this land, in preserving the bonuses achieved. In particular, we would point out the problem of state agricultural land and how it is managed, that special supervision should be conducted in terms of production, whether a particular technology is used, or whether it is retained, or whether it increases the value of that land. It is not enough just to round up, so a certain arrangement is also needed in terms of improving credits with different agrotechnical measures, there are great differences in the quality of agricultural land from the region to the region in Croatia, somewhere more investment is needed, somewhere less investment is needed, but if we want to have profitable production then what we must do is irrigation because if there is no irrigation we cannot even increase the production of those agricultural products that are missing in Croatia today, which is fruit and vegetables production, because we are also significant importers. When we go into such a large project as land circulation, then we must be aware that certain changes in legislation, as already stated in this contract itself, are necessary, as the Minister himself said in the opening statement. Therefore, certain new laws or amendments to existing laws should be adopted as soon as possible so that we can effectively implement such projects as regards agricultural land and total agricultural production. However, we would also like to point out certain conclusions made by the Croatian Parliament and bound by the government, or the government has obligations under certain laws. The Law on Agriculture makes it mandatory for the Government to give the so-called Green report. This is a task that the government has not respected so far and we want to warn that we should have, that Parliament should have one such information. In April 2005, the unanimous conclusion is that the report on agricultural land is given annually, given that it was on the initiative of the Agriculture Committee, the then president, and today's minister was the initiator of such a conclusion, and I think we will probably get that report in this year, because it would actually mean seeing how much progress we are making in these projects. We will not achieve the desired results unless we change the Law on Inheritance, and that has already been the case. A lot of countries have done it in a good way, not messing with property, and I'll say it for example. in the Republic of Slovenia which has solved this problem in a way that cannot be shared through inheritance but an existing parcel. So, we don't go into ownership here, but we're here to preserve already existing parcels, but the existing clusters of land because there's also a huge amount of money to be invested, but also a lot of time and effort to get to one of the larger plots. So it seems to us that this is a concrete project, a project in which the country that has experience and achieves results in agriculture and that this can only benefit Croatia in this difficult process of rounding the land. So, as I said, we will vote on the adoption of this bill, but we are warning that it should do more than just the pilot of the project and allocate more money than it has been allocated through the state budget so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6855	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Zlatko Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6856	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. So here are just a few thoughts on behalf of the Croatian People's Party's Club of Representatives when it comes to this Law that is before us today, because we all know that the delicacy of ownership is one of the major problems of Croatian agriculture, because we have an average area of between 3 and 5 hectares and therefore this project of rounding up agricultural land which is the subject of this contract between Croatia and the Kingdom of Sweden should contribute to increasing production, reducing imports and increasing the competitiveness of domestic agricultural producers and therefore the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party will support the adoption of this Act. I want to say right now that the county I come from, the Varazdin County has an extremely good cooperation with the Swedish AIDS Agency, which is the holder of this project by Sweden, on behalf of the Swedish side, and this cooperation is therefore long and is more than good, but we also want to call this opportunity on the Croatian Government and the Resort Ministry to get involved more in solving certain problems when it comes to agriculture than it has been until now, especially when it comes to the Varazdin County. First, I will only mention in a few groups of problems which things we want to point out where we prefer the participation of the Croatian government and the resolution ministry. First of all, we know that the completely unsettled property-legal relations and the catastrian state and only on one example the pilot of the rounding project that we had in one of the middle of our county, of the 300 people who wanted to participate in the rounding project, more than 30% had no fixed property-legal relations. Of course, there is a question of what the state is doing on this issue, and we think that all property relations should be free of charge at the expense of the state, and that, in that sense, it should simply, in the next 2 years, be free of charge to invite all citizens to, I say, at the expense of the state to take care of their property relations and to make it a base of course for circulation and for what comes next. I also join those who have now said that the Legacy Act is one of the major problems, because we are aware that it is a business of farming without a country an imaginary thing, so we continue to enable the cleavage of agricultural holdings and not to create, of course, goods producers and we think that we should finally put these things into place in a way that is arranged in other countries, other European countries, which is that one in the family inherits everything, that the others are paid through certain amounts and I don't think that we are going to be in possession of it, but we are solving the issue of keeping the circulation. How to today our farmer is dealing with a European farmer who on average has about 20 hectares of land on 3 or 4 plots, and our farmer has 3 to 4 hectares on average on 15 or even 20 plots. So here we are very unequal. Credits for agricultural land, as far as I know, commercial banks don't want to recognise the mortgage on land, and if you want to borrow land, then the interest rate exceeds 9%, so I don't know what production should be to support such a loan and make some income. Farmers in the European Union, as far as we know, are raising loans with an interest rate of 2% every 20 years and, of course, it is difficult to compare the competitiveness of our farmers and foreign farmers. According to the statistics I have, Croatia lost 733 thousand hectares of agricultural land back 9 years. And we ask the question does anyone know why and what such agricultural land is intended for? What other purposes are for such a huge, huge amount. And there were mentions here, mentioning irrigation. We believe that the state is forcing irrigation to all forces, and we believe that it is okay, however, we also believe that irrigation cannot take precedence over land circulation, and I must say that only the Varazdin and Krapina-Zagorje County have no county irrigation programmes. And apparently the question is, why is that? The answer is very simple. Because we actually have in these counties the least agricultural land and the land is split into thousands of particles with approximately an average size of 0.3 hectares. The irrigation programs are made in those counties where you have some of the forms of large PIKs or combinations because the payment of the irrigation programme is based on 50% units of local self-government, and 50% of Croatian waters while investing in irrigation systems in PIKs is co-financed up to 80%, and only 30% are co-financed with small peasants. We have already spoken to Croatian waters in Varazdin County on several occasions and have suggested that certain materials related to water resources be revised which are, by the way, from, from the 1980s and that certain locations be determined by county and to approach the pilot projects at 2 to 3 locations. However, of course we failed to reach an agreement, but we want to do programs for the entire county, we think it is wrong. So these are the problems we are asking for more involvement of the Croatian Government and the Resort Ministry, and we, as a representative club, will support the adoption of this law and consider it useful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6857	Thank you. On behalf of the National Minority Club, Ms. Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6858	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Although I had no intention of speaking on behalf of the club about practically law, that is, the project that the Government of Sweden is financing together with the Republic of Croatia, listening here about the problems of circulation and that it is certainly not possible to produce competitively and profitablely on the surfaces of 2.4 or 2.9 hectares, regardless of what data is accurate because often one and the other in statistics is mentioned. I certainly want to support this project and certainly point to the importance of rounding our agricultural areas. Here is a great focus given to inheritance and the law on inheritance that certainly should be the first law to contribute to this, but very little we talk about the part that national pension or retirement would give just as good results, not the incentive that we give from income. In fact, we are introducing income incentives and stimulating the survival of such small family economies, if they can at all be called economies, stimulating them with 500 or 1,000 kuna per month per person, stopping the process and selling land and the process of transferring that land to heirs. If we were to introduce a national pension, give security to such an elderly or, let's say, to the old families, we would certainly encourage them to get rid of their land, to say their land, or to make it a condition for that retirement, to either sell or give in to their son's inheritance, we would certainly contribute far more to the rounding of land than we do now. This was driven by another piece of information that tells me about the poverty of our agricultural areas which, surely, is part of the consequences and technology that has gone back unfortunately several years, but is also the result of the lease. We've got a lot of land on the lease today. The tenants are very bad land lords, or lords from today to tomorrow because he knows, today he's on the lease, maybe not tomorrow. We no longer have the fertilizer that was always fertilizing and for supplies in the soil, we don't even have enough fertilisers today to take the nutrients out of the soil, let alone fertilizing to make it rich, preserve the fertility of the soil. So I think that the land management policy of the sea and how to start from the ground up, that the objective of rounding is exactly the quality of management. Reading these days on the necessity of introducing a tax on unprocessed land is certainly one of the measures many European countries are using. We've got the whole hack up that whoever owns the land can run that land the way they want to and no one can force him to pay the tax. The land must be kept in a working state everywhere. It does not have to produce an economic category on it, or produce something that gives economic value, but it has to maintain such soil in a state of combustion, meaning in that state that the fertility of the soil should be maintained so that it does not become a part of the weed, that such surfaces are not actually at the expense of those areas that are indeed in production. I am therefore sorry that there is no minister here, but I think that with this project we should come very seriously and very quickly to address the problem of rounding up, the problem of production of our surfaces that must be the basis of serious agricultural production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6859	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. He's the first representative of Mr. Branko Box. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6860	I thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, colleagues and colleagues. The aim of the agricultural land mining project in Croatia is to contribute to the development of a competitive agricultural sector and sustainable rural development. The project consists of a preparatory phase and an implementation phase. This law regulates the implementation phase of the project. We currently have four county land offices in Croatia. The implementation of five pilot projects in four regional self-governments, i.e. six local self-governments, takes place in accordance with the national plan. Many activities such as the creation of a geographical information system, the development of environmental impact studies, pedological maps, etc. need to be implemented in order to implement land circulation. The speed of implementation of these activities depends on the order of the cadastrian and land books. Since the Kingdom of Sweden undertakes to finance the implementation phase of the project, their experiences in the rounding up of agricultural land are also important. In Sweden, rounding is achieved through a land fund managed by the agronomic profession and agrarian operations managed by the geographical profession. Both ways are based on an extremely quality official, i.e. exceptional quality official information and records and an updated real estate cataster. Also, the Law on the Cataster of Real estate agricultural land by planting cannot physically split into smaller units but only be co-owned. Due to the bad experience in the past with co-commastions, the Croatian peasant also today has the same characteristics as taking away land, i.e. nationalisation. In view of the above, it is important to carry out on a voluntary basis with a final objective, meaning to reduce the depletion of agricultural areas which prevent the development of modern agricultural production. This pilot project also aims to boost the agricultural land market, bring agricultural producers together and promote the development of agricultural production and integration with tourism activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6861	Thank you. Ms. Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6862	Thank you. President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the promoters, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the proposal for a law on the confirmation of a special contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on the implementation of the implementation phase of the agricultural land rounding project in Croatia. This proposal confirms the revised special contract in order to make its provisions part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia, and the special contract regulates the implementation phase of the project, as well as the financial obligations of the Kingdom of Sweden and the Republic of Croatia, the conditions of use and the way in which the Kingdom of Sweden contributes, the way in which goods are purchased, the reporting, evaluation and audit of the project itself. The specific contract itself is good because it well defines the competences of the scope, obligations and financial and other conditions of use, reporting and evaluation. The Republic of Croatia has decided to implement a project to round up agricultural land in Croatia, defined the objective, which is to contribute to the development of the competitiveness of the agricultural sector and sustainable rural development, but has also defined the purpose of this project, which means to support the development of a national agricultural land rounding policy through the development and development of a legal, organisational, institutional, technical and management framework for the implementation of the croping of agricultural land, but also by improving the ability to participate in the decision-making processes of relevant stakeholders, which is the culture of partnerships that has been mastered through the development of current development projects at local, regional and national level. Therefore, I will support this bill first because it is good, but also because I am sure that, using the experience gained so far and the knowledge gained through the withdrawal of funds from pre-accession funds, the Republic of Croatia will respect the full provisions of this law with the assistance of the Kingdom of Sweden and its own resources, means the resources of the state budget, as well as the funds of the units of local and regional self-government, and in such a way to launch the rounding process, of course with the establishment and active role of the other institutions of which Mr. Minister spoke at the beginning in the opening section. And in this way these new institutions will also be the bearers of the whole agricultural development process whose significant precondition is certainly the rounding up of agricultural land. I am also sure that the quality and responsible implementation of this project, since it is working together with the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden, will contribute to the opening of doors to new sources of financing and funding of the European Union and other sources of funds. Although Zadar County is not a beneficiary of this project, I am sure that experience will be gained in this project, means in the implementation of this project, but also in the experiences and models provided by the Kingdom of Sweden and other countries of the European Union, it will be used for a more systematic approach to the rounding of agricultural land in the Zadar County, which has 227 thousand hectares of agricultural land than that of 68 thousand and which, of course, is even more than the average of the Republic of Croatia, depreciated and also above the average of the Republic of Croatia and private property. So more than 92% of the agricultural land is in private possessions very, very depreciated. This will create preconditions for accelerated development, but also for a more competitive agricultural sector and sustainable rural development in the area and Zadar County, as well as for the Republic of Croatia, which is the ultimate objective of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6863	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragan Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6864	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the council, Mr. Secretary. In front of us is the proposal for a law on the confirmation of a special contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on the implementation of the implementation phase of the project "Corruption of Agricultural Land in Croatia". The contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Kingdom of Sweden was signed on 21 June 2006, and subsequently corrected through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration and the Embassy of the Kingdom of Sweden. This Treaty regulates the duration of the project of 36 months, the financial obligations of the parties to the signatories, environmental impact assessment, the process of reviewing the implementation phase of the project. It is significant to note that this contract is ongoing or temporarily applicable, and will take effect when the Republic of Croatia informs Sweden of compliance with the internal legal requirements in Croatia. This temporary application is seen in a successful realization of 5 pilot locations in the Republic of Croatia. The project aims to contribute to the development of a competitive agricultural sector and sustainable rural development in the Republic of Croatia. The purpose of the project is to support the development of the National Circumstance Policy of Agricultural Land. Through the implementation of this programme, or through a pilot project, it will build and strengthen the necessary legal frameworks and analyse existing legal solutions. Through the implementation of the pilot project, a picture of the organisational management of this process will be obtained, resulting in the construction of an institutional, technical and management framework for the implementation of the agricultural land rounding process. The programme will also prepare local administrations, regional self-government all the way to the national level for making the right decisions to round up agricultural land. Because it's a primary prerequisite for successful and cheaper agricultural production. Aware of the fact that the rounding of agricultural land is a fundamental prerequisite for successful agricultural production, I support the adoption of this law and the realization of this pilot project on the ground. Knowing the problems related to the delicacy of our parcels and the traditional attachment of Croatian peasants to their grants and catasters in certain environments, this job will require great efforts by all participants in the process of rounding up agricultural land. This programme through the implementation of the pilot project will open up a lot of problems, but by applying the world experience so far adapted to our environment and our legislation, I expect it to be successfully completed. If we want to be, and we want to, a country with successful modern agricultural production, then this process has no alternative. Therefore, the effort, knowledge and financial resources invested in this programme will return multiple times. The programme should be completed within the deadline and its positive effects should be revised to the rest of Croatia so that they can ultimately organise successful agricultural production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6865	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6866	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Well, this law which, in a concrete way, said in its aim, the whatA should happen with this contract, a special contract, which is to develop the competitiveness of the agricultural sector and sustainable rural development in the Republic of Croatia through the rounding up of agricultural land is certainly something that is positive and something that we as representatives, especially from the area where it is land and perhaps the most pronounced, which is Slavonia, we will certainly support. In the first place, the rounding of agricultural land in Croatian agriculture is a very important issue. The fragmentation of the present state from average, and here we have also received accurate data from Professor Kovacevic, up to three hectares, which is usually said, is certainly a big problem for every agrarian policy and for creating something that will give more production. The data provided by Professor Kovacevic regarding the countries of France, England, Sweden certainly indicate that their agriculture with this rounding is what it means in Europe today, as well as in the world. However, it is also certain that the country and the basic medium are as said by Minister Pankretic, which is based on the success of agricultural production. Some research we had, especially by late Professor Baban in Osijek, suggested that by 2012, it could be an average possession of 7 hectares. You see how difficult and slow it is to create something bigger. However, this ongoing project, which should be expanded, is bound by the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden, is certainly commendable. However, the use of the experiences of these countries, and I say we also heard data from Sweden as such, is very useful. However, I think that respect for our specialities is also of great importance. There's already been an inheritance speech here, but many other laws should certainly change here and be like that. But the legacy is the fact that in these past years, especially before, in the previous 40-50 years, people went back to the cities at the time of industrialization, where they were employed, but at the same time they kept that piece of land they got by inheriting whether or not they were working it. However, we certainly should also think about the fact that the rounding in Slavonia and Baranja, the cereals of Croatia, and some of our other parts of Croatia, is not the same. In Slavonia and Baranja, which according to its resources is productive, which produces tons and wagons of cereals, it is certain that these rounded areas should also be larger than in some other regions where other types of production can take place in smaller areas. So, the rationalization of production is one of the preconditions that even when we think about rounding up, that's when we talk about it. Also, everyone today shoots at areas that were either once owned by combinations or are now state-owned. The surfaces that have somehow been cultured, which have already produced results, and everyone would like to get hold of those surfaces somehow. However, in this Croatia there is also a million certainly hectares of the waiting country, which is standing and certainly if it is tried in this segment, it will also be more interesting, that it will also be more economically cost-effective and that it will also be able to produce on it. One more question is, and the issue here already mentioned, when it comes to rounding, it is a question that will certainly not be in this situation without a solution to deforestation and irrigation, because the process itself of rounding up land, or what was called before, dry arondation, is normally not going to be in this situation without this part, which is deforestation, because we often have a little more rain, a lot of problems with floods, or when a dry period arises that we have problems, if we don't have irrigation, with contributions. And then there's always some damage settlements, whether through drought or by flood, mostly in this segment with a circle, and we need to do that part as such. And finally, I think with this kind of approach to rounding the surface with solving and these additional things that I was talking about and that were mentioned here, that we're going to get to a safer production, that we're going to get to know that agricultural production and land is not just a factory without a roof. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6867	Thank you. And Mr. Representative Sima Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6868	Thank you very much, Mr. President, representatives of the ministry, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Of course I support this programme of farming land and that there were resources, and I believe that there was a good will, we could and should have gone far, far before. It is that it is a painful, long process, and by me and expensive, but of course we should have done it parallelly because it is the present need of agriculture mainly in those areas, those counties where agriculture is concerned intensively. Today, our municipalities, I believe almost everything in Croatia, in our Slavic counties, certainly almost everything, have made the programmes available to agricultural land in four forms. It's a return, a concession, a sale and a lease. And of course, they got consent to those programs. However, as colleagues have said so far, the problem has emerged, in my opinion, in the mountain-mounted areas where these parcels are indeed detached. And there's another discrepancy, as the previous colleague said, when it comes to the larger one, as we call it on the ground, the boards, where the former PICs worked, the particles are also out of sync with the situation on the ground, so one particle of 15, 20, 22 hectares, where there are more particles, and of course it's run and such a situation is not consistent with the catastrus and geodetic administration. In the field, intensive measures are being carried out to measure agricultural land, which I absolutely support, but this process, in my opinion, goes quite slowly and I think, in this segment, that both the county and the state geodetic administration and the municipality on which the measure is being carried out, should jointly invest more funds and, of course, employ geodetic houses to do as much work on the ground as possible. Because without a concrete measurement in the field of agricultural land, there is neither a programme of availability, nor a sale, nor concessions, nor a lease. And not to mention that on smaller surfaces where all necessary agrotechnical measures are not adequately done, from the first actions, the undermining, the eagles and all other actions, and it has been proven that the particles are ultimately made and smaller, so the profit is lower. In particular, this refers to the old-age farming households who, in their inability to process them, gave those who, with a certain contract, a statement to the public notary, that on his behalf, this and that, and the family holding, on that and that deadline, already listed there, will process its surfaces. I think that this process, of course, is commendable from the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden for making an agreement with the Republic of Croatia, but I think it should be counted on making them more and more from other sources, from the pre-accession and accession funds of the European Union, to make them from the European Union's pre-accession and accession funds more difficult to do in this segment until Croatia's entry into the European Union, so that the Croatian peasants, in order to welcome the Croatian peasants, not only when it comes to agrarian policy, but also mechanisms and everything else, so that they can plan and obtain the machinery and edit those areas that have not been arranged so far. And of course here's my final address, of course I'll support this and vote for it. Another segment, which is to edit the detailed channel network of the third and fourth lines. As far as I'm aware in Slavonia County, Osijek-Baranja that 35% is arranged there, Vukovar-Srijemska somewhere between 25 and 27%, Brod-Posaviska 15. So on this segment, even though it's a little bit different from the topic we're talking about today, we should sort of single out a total of more funds and states and counties and municipalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6869	Thank you, fellow MP. And now, in conclusion, Mr. Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development Bozidar Pankretic will be on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6870	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So here's two, three sentences just in the end. I thank all MPs and MPs for the support they have given the bill, but it is my duty to say that this is, as many have mentioned, just one, I would say, advocating what awaits us with regard to agricultural land. And I will announce here, of course, that we will meet very soon in front of this honored House with the new Agricultural Land Act. Of course we're going to put into the new law, so I'd say the most of these things that have been spoken about here today since the separation of particles, but also those things that happen to me, I'd say competitions that haven't been right, because unfortunately many agricultural land has not come into the hands of those who are engaged in agricultural production. So we have to change the law, we have to define it. We need to put on the right level of agricultural land that must not become a purpose of speculation because its price increases every day but must become in full terms a means of production and what is fundamental to agriculture. Therefore, I think this is only one part of the small part that will allow us in the whole law where we will also define the Agricultural Land Agency and the Land Fund, but also different criteria related to the lease, sale and concession to bring as soon as possible complete agricultural land as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6871	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. It'll be decided after the terms have been met. Eighth, Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of a Special Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on the implementation of the implementation phase of the agricultural land rounding project in Croatia. It was an emergency procedure. P.Z.E. Number 51. The debate is closed. The proposer has adopted amendments to the Committee on Law and to the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, and they become an integral part of the final draft law and are not voted on. Please, let's get involved and vote. Thank you. The result? 118 votes. Most of the votes were accepted this, 118 for, 3 abstentions and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6874	Thank you, Mr. President. Since you've traded me for a very charming colleague, I thank you for that. She obviously left...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6875	I'm sorry, there's been a little mistake here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6876	It's all right.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6877	I apologize to Mrs. Secretary of State who, by the way, I know his name is Obradovic, so I was surprised, but here I apologize, correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6878	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The proposal for an amending and supplementing law on the export of dual-purpose goods by the Government of the Republic of Croatia aims to improve the system of control of dual-use exports of goods as well as dual-use technologies with the primary objective of preventing the spread of weapons of mass destruction and terrorism. The dual-use goods include computer programs as well as technology, goods which can be used equally for civil or military purposes, and which can be used in any way or partly for the production of nuclear, chemical or biological weapons. Since I am the concept of dual-purpose goods raises the question of what it is, I was free to prepare you or literally illustrate to you that goods that at the same time can have a civilian and military purpose, so that those who are closer to the agricultural theme know that it is, for example, an aviation system for spraying agricultural surfaces, parts that can also be used to carry biological weapons in the form of inhaled aerosols. Or, for example, those closer to laboratory studies will recognize pots for melting that, except for civilian purposes, can also serve as components of the nuclear reactor. Therefore, by illustrating these concrete examples, the Government of the Republic of Croatia wants at any moment if there is any doubt that through the territory of the Republic of Croatia or the movement of goods with such dual purpose or the export of goods that can be used and as weapons of mass destruction, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is proposing to adopt a law that would strengthen this supervision and would, among other things, give our customs administration more authority or authority to stop such shipment, and we also prescribe a proper prison sentence by proposing this law. It is important here to note that this law does not intend to, of course, slow down or restrict international trade, but we would like to have the possibility to stop the transaction if there is reasonable doubt that the goods exported or transported through the Republic of Croatia can also be used for the purpose it has for the result of devastating and unwanted effects. With regard to compliance with the acquis of the European Union, I am free to point out that we are in compliance with the specific three regulations of the European Union. The declaration of conformity is in the attachment. The most important part that we are transposing and creating is, in fact, the basis for the implementation of this law, contained in a regulation that is currently being developed and which is in preparation for the procedure of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which in its annex has an accurate list of dual-purpose goods currently in force in the European Union. Therefore, following the adoption of this draft law in the implementing sense, the Government has already prepared a draft proposal for a regulation containing several thousand dual-use goods in its list so that we can, of course, also enable consistent, effective and timely implementation of this bill. Let me say that we are in one segment even one step ahead of current trends in the European Union. The European Union has not yet addressed the issue of brokering at its level, therefore intermediation in dual-use trade as well as in the part relating to traffic control. We did it. Only by the end of the year will the European Union adopt a regulation that will address these two issues at its own level. I would therefore dare say that, in terms of supervision, we are moving forward and step forward as confirmed and in a meeting with the European Commission held in February of this year. Finally, the issue is the implementation of this law other than the regulation that I have mentioned and the exact list of dual-use goods of the Ministry of Economy within the Government of the Republic of Croatia is working to strengthen its own capacity to identify, to cooperate with the Customs Administration in the concrete application of this law and to strengthen my own supervisory capacity, thus supplementing a part of the criteria for closing Chapter 30 – External relations. The Government of the Republic of Croatia therefore proposes to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Double-For-For Export Act. Thank you for your attention. And of course, I'm at your disposal to answer your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6879	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6880	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, respected State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, colleagues and fellow MPs. When it comes to exporting dual-purpose goods, I must stress that the Republic of Croatia has established an effective dual-purpose control system for the adoption of the Double-For-For-Britain Export Act 2004. It is true that this law applies from 1 January 2005. Since this is a dual-use product, including computers, programmes and technologies, which can be used for both civil and military purposes, this goods which can be used for explosive purposes but which can in any way help in the production of nuclear weapons and other nuclear explosive devices. It is therefore necessary to have special controls on exports of dual-purpose goods and to prevent the spread of weapons of mass destruction. We know that this poses a major threat to regional and global security today. When the Double Use Export Act was adopted, one of the most important conditions for membership in international regimes and export control was adopted by the Republic of Croatia in June 2005 and became a member of the control of conventional weapons and goods with dual purpose and a group for the prevention and spread of nuclear weapons and materials and in April 2007 and an Australian group for the control of chemical and biological weapons. On the basis of the Double Purpose Export Act, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a Regulation on the list of dual-use goods that is regularly in line with European Union rules. What is the objective of the new Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Double-For-For Export Act? It wants to strengthen and improve the dual-use control and export system. Standards set by the Security Council Resolution and the United Nations will also be met and concerns the prevention and spread of weapons of mass destruction. By decision of the Security Council and the United Nations, the States have made a commitment to lay down rules to prevent the spread of nuclear chemical and biological weapons. It is important to lay down rules governing the transport of dual-purpose goods which can be used for the production of weapons of mass destruction and to prescribe penalties for infringements of the rules. In the new law, the transport of dual-use goods listed in the list of goods and the basis of the law may prohibit the ministry if the goods could be fully or partially used for the purposes of illegal law. Exports of goods may be a legal or natural person, craftsman of course with headquarters or residence on the territory of the Republic of Croatia or a natural person resident in the Republic of Croatia. Double-use goods may only be exported on the basis of an export licence and the same authorisation shall be issued by the Ministry. An application for an export licence shall be submitted to the Ministry and issued on a proposal from the Commission. The Ministry may also annul the authorisation if it is established that the authorisation has been issued on the basis of incorrect and incomplete data. Penalties are also provided for law offenders and they are not small given that they are specific goods. It is important to note that seminars on the monitoring of dual-purpose exports to Croatia are being conducted with domestic exporting producers. Also with the cooperation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, European Integration and the Ministry of Economy, as well as representatives of health development institutions and customs consignors. They also agreed that it was a slave for civilian and military use and could be used for the production of weapons and mass destruction. It is therefore also important to note that the most important prevention and responsible system of export controls is, and that is precisely what is said in the draft law. Amendments and additions to this law are acceptable and necessary. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community Club accepts the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Double-For-For Export Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6881	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. Mr. Ante Kulusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6882	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary with a colleague. Given the importance and extremely good and significant position of the Republic of Croatia in foreign policy relations, it is not necessary to stress the importance of harmonising with the United Nations Security Council resolution. Terrorism is the danger of a new era that is present and before which there is no closing of eyes, but it is important to join the joint efforts taken internationally. The dual-use goods are a sensitive issue because they are goods that can be used for military purposes and which can help in the manufacture of nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices. These amendments and additions to the Double-Intent Export Act will allow the suspension of double-intention transactions where there is a suspicion that it could be used to produce WMDs. In the fight against the proliferation of nuclear, chemical or biological weapons of mass destruction and the means to transfer such weapons, everyone must participate, and that is especially the responsibility of countries like ours, which have an important geographical position. Due to all the above-mentioned adoption of these amendments and additions, it is the responsibility of all of us and I am giving support to the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6883	Thank you. Mr. Representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6884	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ladies and State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. One interesting topic, short and clear, but let me repeat a few of the things that I have noticed in this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Export Act of dual-use goods. For every commendation, what we have heard from Madam Secretary of State that we are in this area even one step ahead of the legislation of the European Union, and this is an example that can be done means something that is not imposed directly by the European Union, which is in line with the legal norms and regulations that are waiting for us. It is also known, as has already been said, that since 1.1.2005 the Republic of Croatia has established and applied a dual-use export control system for the adoption of the same-named law. As it is known the dual-use goods are those goods that can be used for civil and military purposes that we saw from the presentation of the State Secretary, and in the production of nuclear weapons and nuclear explosive devices. These amendments to the laws seek to improve the system of control of exports of dual-purpose goods in the Republic of Croatia, and the amendments to the laws are in line with European regulations and standards of the United Nations Security Council Resolution. The basis for these amendments to the law is as follows. Under one, conditions for transport, transit of dual-purpose goods, then provision of dual-use services and ultimately the regulation of a criminal offence, i.e. Penalty for the offender of the law when national security and foreign policy interests of the Republic of Croatia are at risk. On this last one, I would like to remain and say a few words about the introduction of a prison sentence into these new legal changes. In the Law on the Export of dual-use goods adopted by the Croatian Parliament in the criminal provisions of Articles 18 and 19, only fines and possible bans on the operation of dual-use exports were provided for, and today we are introducing something new. Amendments to the laws we are talking about today in the new Article 18a also provide for prison sentences for the criminal offence of exporting of dual-use goods without an export licence and for the duration of the prison sentence from 6 months to 5 years. The penalty applies to the person who, with intent, commits acts relating to paragraph 1 of Article 18 of this Act, and where those acts may jeopardise the enforcement of the international obligations of the Republic of Croatia and of the foreign policy interests of the Republic of Croatia. Some countries are known to take particular care of the sensitivity of violations in this area and have far more rigorous sanctions, e.g. Bulgaria, which for the transport of dual-use goods without permission, has a legally prescribed prison sentence of up to 6 years, and in the event of more serious violations of up to 8 years. These new and more rigorous criminal provisions, along with the other amendments provided for by this law and Croatia, stand by the countries of Europe and the world that are taking all possible action to prevent potential dangers... of world terrorism, also more rigorous legal acts and the intended prison sentences against whose height I personally don't mind. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, I believe that prison sentences should be more and more, trying to challenge and prevent further military acts, i.e. terrorist activities in both our country and the neighborhood, practically in Europe. For all the above, of course I support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6885	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6886	Thank you, Mr. President. In addition to this law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia prescribed in 2005 a regulation which is a double-use commodity. This indeed includes a fairly large set of goods, the regulation, therefore, that list is quite large and is quite broadly covered and in any case shows one seriousness and systematicity that is needed to ensure that the traffic of such goods is in a way that the State is also involved in the traffic of such goods. Many types of dual-use goods were previously primarily developed for military purposes, and then they became usable in civil life, but by reducing conventional, and by increasing asymmetric and terrorist threats, it is often possible that some goods first develop for civilian use, and then they start to be used for military purposes. I will remind you that this matter was first covered in the 2002 reform law package. The law on production and transport and refurbishing of arms and military equipment when, for the first time in one legal text, special regulations were laid down for the transport of military goods, and possibly double equipment. Also in this law was the new role of the famous Alan Agency as an intermediary in the export of military equipment. We have also witnessed many media inscriptions which are now becoming less and less involved in the participation of Croatian or Croatian companies in the transport of dual and military goods, and now it is less and more personally I always advocate a more restrictive approach to granting export licences for such goods because the damage that can be, the damage to the international reputation of Croatia that can be produced by such irresponsible exports in the rule of the market that are politically sensitive, so to the so-called ". The grey zones of arms trade and dual equipment, so to speak, can be much greater than it could benefit a single company that would participate. I would just like to point out, therefore, that the Law on the Production and Remont of Military Equipment, the Arms of Military Equipment, and some kind of compensation if such goods are disabled, so perhaps in the second reading of the law, so in the preparation of the law that goes into the second reading, some compensation could be considered if some kind of export of a product which, for example, Croatia is used for military purposes and the like, and then of course depends on the proposal of the law in the second reading, so will my view on supporting the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6887	Thank you. And finally Mr. Representative Zlatko Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6888	Mr. President, as I see this law, which is here today at the debate is the further harmonisation of our legislation with the acquis of the European Union and the adoption of this law is foreseen in the Plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legal acquis of the European Union for 2008 in the first quarter of 2008. Obviously, it is a significant law that the Government has referred to in a regular procedure, and we will not pass it according to this harmonisation plan that I have mentioned. Double-use goods can be used for both civil and military purposes and goods that can be used for non-explosive purposes, but also those that can in any way assist in the production of nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices. This definition also refers to computer technology programmes and is clearly related to the export of goods which plays an important role for each country, as monitoring its exports helps to prevent the spread of weapons of mass destruction, representing of course safety, both the security of each country and the world security. In this part, the Republic of Croatia has established an effective system by adopting a basic law applicable from 1.1.2005. Because as we can see from the assessment of the situation, the EU has not yet passed a regulation regulating the transport and brokering of dual-purpose goods, and I guess that's also the reason for putting it into regular procedure and I will support this law in first reading for its importance for security. But I only have one specific remark. Article 6 provides for the Minister to adopt a Rules of Procedure on the work of the Commission to prescribe the way the committee works and decides after the opinions of the competent authorities have been obtained. I think it should be the autonomous body of that commission, and the minister, if he wants to have control, needs to adopt a rulebook. I think it is a common practice in legal legislation that such issues should be resolved by the Minister, and the Rules of Procedure shall be settled if they are brought only by the body that is necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-29-0.u6889	Thank you very much. The applicant's representative did not report for the closing statement. I'm closing the debate today. Tomorrow we start at 9.30 p.m. on the agenda of the Proposal for a Law on the “Croatian Children” Foundation, and I would like to point out that tomorrow I will propose to work without a break to finish something early. Thank you very much. Ninth, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Export Act of dual-use goods. This is the first reading. P.Z. Number 47. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. First. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Export Act for dual-use goods is hereby adopted. Second. Any comments, proposals and opinions raised in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get involved and vote. Thank you. The result? This law is, the bill was passed with 119 votes for, 4 abstentions and nothing against. These proposals for conclusions have been accepted.
