ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u894	Allow a few sentences just for introduction. Therefore, it is the confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Community and the Republic of Croatia concerning a specific programme of the Employment and Social Solidarity Community (PROGRESS). I'd like to say that in the field of employment and social security other than so-called. a solid aquis or solid legal gains, binding legal gains, there is also room for specific solutions in the national laws of the Member States. In that part a very important method is the method so-called method. open coordination where the area of social policy and employment is, therefore, aimed at harmonising specific programmes to the maximum extent possible in relation to the expected objectives and standards in terms of social policy. The memo was signed last year. The proposal for a certification law was sent to this High House last year. Here, given the circumstances, it is now on the agenda, but to remove some of the misunderstandings that have been put into question on individual committees, regardless of the fact that the memorandum has not yet been confirmed. There was a possibility of running for this program. Of course, it is full of activities, so the conclusion of the contract and all other asset withdrawal activities will be possible after it has been ratified, i.e. to confirm this memorandum. But that's what I'm saying, the interested parties didn't stop them from running for certain programs. Since the amendment has been declared by the Committee on Legislatives at the draft law, I would like to say on behalf of the promoter that we accept the amendment in order to become an integral part of the proposal. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u895	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u896	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed Mrs. Proposer, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a document that has the status of an international contract and, as the attached text of the memorandum shows, it was drawn up on 16 August last year. Instead of immediately forwarding this signed memo to the Parliament, the government did so only in October when the Parliament was practically disbanded, which actually led to today being on the agenda, which practically lost the opportunity to start participation as early as 2007. Namely, it is foreseen that in the first so-called so-called. Croatia can also participate in the initial period. What is not seen from the text of the memo is certainly the content of the PROGRESS programme, which is a very important topic, very important content because it is a European Union programme, so-called a clean European Union programme. Therefore, it is not about pre-accession programmes and participation in this type of programme is actually based on the principles, principles and rules of the European Commission which apply to Member States. It's usually a program that consists of five parts. They deal with employment problems, social solidarity, improving working conditions, anti-discrimination and recognising diversity, and promoting gender equality standards in labour and employment policies. However, it is important to say what the European context of the creation and implementation of the PROGRESS programme is. This is primarily the implementation of the European Employment Strategy. And what is our context for joining this programme? First of all, the fact that we don't have a employment strategy. While the European Union countries focus primarily on creating and implementing a policy of creating new jobs, we are mainly limited to trying to reduce high unemployment. What exactly is our reality? In front of us, the open question is whether we will, above all, act as representatives of our institutions who are invited to participate in the implementation of this Memorandum as statistical indicators, participants of different types of consultation and scientific meetings or as holders of a proactive employment policy by opening up the real possibility of participation of institutions that can receive money on the PROGRESS programme. I will remind you that the Croatian People's Party has, in this sense, come up with an initiative that we have called adaptability to security. The Croatian economy, whether we wish it or not, is an integral part of the globalised economy, but with the change of ownership relations in Croatia, a complex issue of building the labour market and economic operators is a special answer to the challenges of today's time. The adaptability or flexibility of the workforce in different forms as one of the aspects of globalisation is one of the parameters which, in the broadest sense, determines the position of Croatian labour, Croatian companies generally apply flexibility and understand by breaking regulations and is a good part of the labour force in Croatia although the laws speak differently, employed at a certain time. Working hours are determined by the principle of rigid regulations, and workers work part-time in reality longer than full-time, working on Sundays and holidays even though regulations speak differently, etc. I will remind you that the Croatian Constitution guarantees the right to work, not the right to a permanent job. However, the concept of flexibility in security should achieve this constitutional guarantee. This should bear in mind the fact that a good part of today’s attractive professions ten years ago did not exist, and this trend will certainly continue to increase unfavorably the need for lifelong learning and those who are now working and those who will be employed in the future. It's about learning, not education, because you can learn both formally and informally. On the other hand, it should also be taken into account the fact that the labour force in Croatia from a multitude of differences is extremely weakly mobile when it comes to territorial mobility, but also professional mobility. It will have to be changed but with responsibility it cannot remain only for the individual worker. Such changes in innovation in the organisation of work such as flexible working hours, work at home, different forms of employment will certainly lead to a completely new situation on the labour market, and thus in overall social relations. The focus of the PROGRESS programme is on creating new jobs, creating better working conditions, reducing levels of uncertainty, increasing social solidarity, and also on the proactive policy of gender equality. I will remind the name of the Croatian People's Party of the differences between the existing situation and what we believe should be achieved. This can also help us to participate very actively in the PROGRESS program. So far, we've been protecting the workplace. We suggest that the emphasis be placed on preserving jobs, but where it is not possible to protect and support a person who loses his job. Furthermore, losing a job today is an individual's problem. We suggest that it becomes a problem of society. It is now an emphasis on job protection, and we propose to protect man and his right to work as one of the fundamental human rights. Now it's mostly an emphasis on formal education. We suggest that the emphasis be shifted to lifelong learning, which, in addition to formal learning, includes informally. Furthermore, we are aware of the existing situation in which quotas are reduced for the entry of professions that have long made the conukture on the market deficient. Let us only think of two problems, the problem of the lack of doctors in the Republic of Croatia and the fact that our environment now educates up to three times as many doctors as the Republic of Croatia does. Let's just think of the problems both county and so on. large cities of county headquarters as a consequence of the application of the Construction Act. Here two days ago, a fellow mayor of the coastal-goran public announces an invitation through newspapers, appeals for construction engineers to report, because we know what the deficit of that profession is at this hour. The state did not move its finger knowing that the conukture on the market would be like this, on the other hand, that it would decentralise these functions to increase the registration quotas in time and make sure that such people would get into the labour market. We propose to plan long-term needs through active study entry policies, especially professional ones, and that the existing system of discrimination of professional universities, especially at universities, be tempered and brought to the level of our public-proclaimed goal, which is to increase the number of highly educated people in the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, our current situation is that the Employment Office, and it is also apostrophe in this memo as you see as a very important institution, is currently practically doing the work of a statistical agency with very little space to act and create some proactive policy. We at the HNS suggest that the Employment Service strengthens, team and financial support to this level so that it can be the service of the unemployed especially for rapid and effective re-employment assistance. Furthermore, labour disputes are immersed in the sea of procedures in front of our inefficient judiciary. The Croatian People's Party has been repeating and insisting for some time on the proposal to establish specialised working courts. Furthermore, for historical social reasons, the current situation is that the mobility of our workforce is very bad especially in other cities. Now responsibility is transferred exclusively to individual workers in this regard. The HNS proposes to allow for increased labour mobility with incentives from the state, such as a program of encouraging housing. But also to establish responsibility in the state, to ensure conditions for greater mobility such as better school infrastructure, kindergarten, one-way teaching and all that young people, especially mothers, but also fathers prevent at a higher level of mobility. Furthermore, in the last seven years, measures for the flexibility of the labour market have been largely implemented in Croatia through less severance, shorter cancellation deadlines. And we suggest that social security be highlighted and the protection of the person or worker. Everything we do, we work mainly to boost the competitiveness of the economy and we forget, and that is why we remind ourselves that the social importance of the economy on the one hand and the security of employment should be balanced. Next, we're used to lifelong occupations. Well, our fathers and mothers spent their entire working life with an employer. What do we do to recognize the reality that lifelong occupations no longer exist, to encourage new occupations, and thus to adapt every man capable of working on a lifelong learning and job change system? Furthermore, all new employees are employed more or less on a given working day. It is a trick that increases the level of social uncertainty of citizens. The proposal of the Croatian People's Party is that new employees must be employed indefinitely. And labour legislation has laid down the conditions under which such working relationship is interrupted. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party – Liberal Democrats, I announce on behalf of the club that we will support this bill and therefore support its entry into force as quickly as possible. I'm talking about a memo. Mr. President, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u897	Thank you very much. We have one correction. Ms. Representative Marija Pejcinović Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u898	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would correct the incorrect claim by my colleague Beus Richembergh, who found at the beginning of his presentation that the government could have put this proposal in the process at the time of the previous assembly. I would like to meet my colleague, Beus Richembergh, here, that this procedure takes place under, according to the rules laid down by the Law on Confirmation of International Contracts, which is extremely, very, very, very long term, and that is definitely not possible in the past term. What can be done because it was also a problem with some other such memos, to think about changing that procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u899	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative... And you'd rather? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Excuse me, here's the government's representative, Mrs. Vera Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u900	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm sorry, but Mr. Representative has shown in his statement that he is not familiar with certain facts that are far different from the ones he listed here. I'm going to focus on a few that are, as far as employment policy is concerned. In fact, Mr. MP has questioned activities on employment policies, that they are not in line with the Lisbon strategy. I must say, Mr. Representative, that since the mid-term employment plan adopted in 2005, which ends this year, this medium-term plan has already been made in the community with representatives of the European Commission. Every year after that mid-term plan, we established an annual employment plan, also in line with the Lisbon Strategy. We are just ahead of the signing of the Joint Memorandum on Employment Policy where we have brought national priorities into line with the European Commission on the basis of the Lisbon Strategy. So, Croatia is already fully involved as a candidate country in an open method of coordination when it comes to employment policy. In your presentation you also questioned the competence of the Croatian Employment Service for modern access to the labour market. In particular, I will be pleased to have Mr. Representative if you contact us and visit the Croatian Employment Service to see how many changes have been made in this institution in the labour market. The Croatian Employment Service has been a beneficiary of the assistance from the PHARE and CARDS programme to strengthen its institutional capacities and capabilities, today quite different from the one you have qualified as a statistical office that manages certain data. On the contrary, the Croatian Employment Institute is becoming a quality and competent institution that is involved in community programmes. So we also agree on an institutional framework with the European Union. We're a long way from here. We're not happy at all. What is missing, Mr. MP, is that some other social security institutions are not following the dynamics that are happening at the Croatian Employment Service which we will naturally correct. It will soon be soon after the budget, published and this year's active employment policy measures are in line with the priorities set out in the Lisbon Strategy, of course adapted to our national conditions. So, I repeat, Mr. Representative, you are welcome, we will be pleased to introduce you to the progress made by the Croatian Employment Office and the progress made in the labour market policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u901	Thank you. Croatian Democratic Union Representatives' Club, Honored Representative Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u902	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, honored representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. We are facing another step towards the European Union in the field of employment and social policy in the form of the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Community and the Republic of Croatia on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Community's Employment and Social Solidarity Programme. The programme is called PROGRESS, with a final draft law. First of all, I would like to commend my colleague's predecessor to the government if she respected everything I would even say the fastest terms in which she could bring this memo, as counterpart Pejcinovic Buric said. The methodology is so complex that it cannot go ahead of time, nor should it go ahead of time, but should respect time and respect that methodology. In order to see what this means in the dynamics, the European Union documents on this employment and social care problem, or social solidarity, should be examined and the documents on which this memorandum is actually based. Of all the documents, I would point out two. So, two European Union frameworks. It is the first decision of the Council of the European Union since November 2004. This is the Framework Agreement of the Republic of Croatia with the European Union on participation in programmes. It states that the programme under consideration will also be the subject of the participation of the Republic of Croatia and is set to begin with all activities that will include Croatia in the programme. The Framework Agreement said that Croatia will be able to participate in projects, propose projects, initiatives from this area, and that it can participate in monitoring the implementation of the programme. Some specificities have also been identified, but these specificities specify this memorandum. The financial obligations of the Republic of Croatia are also set out. The second framework document was adopted only in October 2006. This is the European Parliament's decision of October 2006, which established a Community programme for employment and social solidarity for PROGRESS. So, this programme was established in the European Union in October 2006, which means that the Government of the Republic of Croatia could only work on it in 2007, which means that it could not be included in the State budget for the current year 2007 but only for the next work at the end of 2007, that's 2008 and that's what the Government did. And in this budget for 2008 we have in the expenditure item the funds for this project. So it's about the dynamics that are prescribed, which is respected, and that's to say that all the rumors that we're hearing about today, which is that we're late in pre-accession negotiations are often their source and are often the result of a lack of understanding of the procedure itself, the very problems as was an example here. So based on these two frameworks I would just say a few more words about them, this memo is being brought. So Parliament's decision of October 2006 adopted this programme setting out guidelines for future co-operation. Its components are among the most important, a strategy for creating a competitive economy in the world. As you know, Croatia has already established a Competitiveness Council for its economy, the government with this Competitiveness Council has continued contacts. The Competitiveness Council proposes, of course, that the Government implements and the consequence is that we are on the competitiveness table from year to year getting better and better, so we are better than many countries that have not had eight years of war like the Republic of Croatia. In other words, we have reached them in competitiveness and I believe in the coming years that we will achieve a level of competitiveness of the members of the European Union. At the same time, this programme also highlights the preservation of social cohesion. No development of the economy without social cohesion has any meaning or justification and the Government of the Republic of Croatia has just made a whole series of steps to preserve social cohesion. First of all, it is the establishment of a social partnership, a regular debate on all key strategic and legal texts with all the social partners and respecting the wishes of the social partners in each government decision. The system of social protection, which is the subject of this memorandum, also has a long tradition in Croatia, has been thoroughly arranged on it. There have been World Bank projects in this area for years. Both, of course, are balanced with the protection of the interests of both workers and employers, which is not always easy to reconcile but is a balance that is the dynamic of all developments in the development of one country and Croatia follows it precisely because it is in constant contact with the representatives of the Croatian Employers' Association and with all the unions in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the basic objectives that go towards better employment in the European Union determine greater labour flow for which Croatia is prepared with all its educational and other programmes, then in this project Croatia will be involved in the dissemination of information on employment, on the dissemination of views on future staff education, on the development of the social assistance network, etc. In all these programmes Croatia is far away and will jump into the European train without a problem. Of course, these projects have the other side, which is the financial support or participation that the Republic of Croatia must add to it. As far as inclusion dynamics are concerned, it is already foreseen in the document at the end of 2006 that Croatia is involved in 2007 but is involved in the production of all strategic documents such as this one in front of us and the forecasting of financial expenditures. Therefore, the initial period of Croatian inclusion is still in 2007 and 2008, in this memorandum they are called as a period of limited participation of the Republic of Croatia in the project. In the transitional period that will begin on 1 January 2009, all these documents will be ready, all activities will be ready and all financial expenditure on Croatian commitments will also be provided for in the agreement. Full participation is foreseen from 1 January 2011. This full participation involves a lot of use of all the rights arising from this memo. Of course, there is still a lot of work to be done under the conditions of use, all partners in the country, all legal and state and local entities that have the right to participate in such projects, teach them, but the competent ministries are already doing it intensively. There have been several misunderstandings about whether Croatia has done so far in this area, so we heard from the first speaker this morning. So Croatia began to solve this area of course even during the Homeland War, but a key document in which both guidelines and employment strategies and the raising of economic competitiveness and the resolution of social issues are in the document of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which are strategic guidelines for development by 2013 elaborated on over 200 pages in which it can be seen that this government has a strategy, has a framework of its behaviour and in the development of the economy and in the protection of social interests. And finally, just a few words about the financial contribution. Financial contribution, of course, is the price paid by each Member State and the candidates entering this programme. The financial contribution of the Republic of Croatia of 160 thousand euros was also divided into two parts by the government, one part that will be paid from the state budget, that is a small part, and most of which will be secured from existing funds, in this case by the PHARE programme and some other programmes, and this is also proof that the government is monitoring the accession of the European Union by protecting the financial interests of the state. Therefore, on behalf of the club, we propose to accept this memorandum, to accept the emergency procedure and to continue the activities necessary for its implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u903	Thank you. Correction of the alleged respected representativeplasm Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u904	Dear counterpart Hebrang said that the government always talks with social partners and respects their wishes, it is simply not true because yesterday was the appointment of all centres, union centres with the prime minister and ministers in Vukovar. The prime minister and ministers have skillfully avoided it and union centres have come to the meeting, no one has appeared by the government. To which Mrs. Knezevic found that the prime minister had thus thrown the banana bark to which he would slip himself. Therefore, it is not always true that he is talking, and it is even less true that he respects the wishes of the social partners.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u905	The club of representatives of the Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja, the respected representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u906	Dear Mr. Chairman, distinguished fellow MPs and fellow MPs. This bill that we have here today on the agenda, in any case, contributes to the further approximation of Croatia and the European Union in terms of legislation and everything that we seek as a state, as the Republic of Croatia. Clearly, the HDSSB's Club of Representatives will support this Bill proposal, but we also have a few questions, i.e. we have some objections to the text of this Bill proposal. Despite Mr. Hebrang and Mrs. Pejcinovic's reasoning about the dynamics of execution, we cannot be taken away from the impression that we are still late in connection with this bill. Namely, it is evident from the documentation we received that it is about, therefore, dates, on the framework agreement of 22 November on page 2. In 2004, then, the Government of the Republic of Croatia reached a conclusion on 28 February 2007 that determines the launch of procedures, the accession of the employment community programme and social solidarity progress. Not only that, but this initial stage or the initial part, the initial period refers to 2007 and 2008. 2007 passed, and already here we are in the neighborhood, it is already the end of February 2008. In any case, this material is and this Law is very important because such two things, which are supervised by the title, therefore, the Employment and Social Solidarity Community is very important for the citizens of Croatia, to improve in, our labour laws and all that he spoke as the core and content of Mr Beus of HNS. On page 3 of this proposal, it is indicated that the financial contribution for 2007 and 2008 is to be co-financed by the funding of the FARE Community programme, amounting to 120 000 euros. And the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the Ministry of Economy, would secure the remaining 40,000 euros. The report of the Legislative Committee, which amends Article 3, reforms and writes that the Republic of Croatia assumes that it subsidises from the state budget the financing of this Act. Therefore, if I understand correctly, there is no funding from the FARE programme in co-financing. Is this about the impasse in negotiations with the European Union, and even in the use of these funds and pre-accession funds, I do not know, but clearly that hopefully we will clarify that in the debate of the day. The total, therefore, conditions of participation in this programme are totalling 6 hundred and 20 thousand euros, would say the price of one of the approximately building of a kindergarten, is it not? When it comes to what Mr Hebrang has said, clearly, in Article 2 of the State Assessment, on page 2 of the State Assessment, the objective that the law seeks to achieve is this: "The competent authorities of Croatia are left with special conditions. In addition, participation in each individual programme including, therefore, a financial contribution.". Now, I wonder why, is it clear that the rapporteur will help me with this, which is why this has been amended, Article 3 which has changed and the Republic of Croatia is going to settle the costs of this programme. It is clear that the HDSSB, the Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja for the adoption of such a law, even if it seemed a little late for the assembly benches, but, my God, better ever than never. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u907	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Marija Buric-Pejcinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u908	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I have to call again because I've been working on the aid programmes a lot, and here is the incorrect claim that co-financing in this community programme will not be achieved from the PAR 2006 programme. Here, I would like to help a little bit to clarify here how it is done in the European Commission. Namely, Far 2006 is already programmed, the money is reserved. And the moment the Government of the Republic of Croatia sends a note to the Commission that this Croatian Parliament has confirmed this memo, then the money will be immediately activated and can be paid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u909	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. Dear representative, Sunday's Klaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u910	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the government, distinguished ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I support the adoption in an individual debate, of course, of the Law on Confirmation of Memorandums of Understanding between the European Community and the Republic of Croatia in the Employment and Social Solidarity Community Programme under an urgent procedure. There are more justified reasons for this kind of support. The Memorandum of Understanding between the European Community and the Republic of Croatia on Croatia's participation in the Employment and Social Solidarity and Progress Programme was signed in Brussels on 16 August 2007. The main direction in the Memorandum that binds us all is life without discrimination. The memorandum envisions increasing employment, improving the health system and education, strengthening gender equality, strengthening the social partnership where the government certainly made significant progress in the previous term. Of course, the Memorandum speaks of a business that goes further, and that is precisely in the direction of law-making. By passing an emergency procedure, Croatia would have achieved full participation in all types of measures written by the Council decision to the European Community just before and the president of the Croatian Democratic Community's Club of Representatives, Mr Hebrang, spoke. In this way, the Community programme enables the inclusion of a large number of institutions in the Republic of Croatia, as well as persons in European, from Croatia, of course, in European flows and cooperation. Representatives of the resolution bodies in Croatia will participate in the committees of the Member States for the management of the programme and joint work with colleagues from other Member States. On 5 March last year, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity Mrs Kosor briefed on a member of the European Commission and the Commissioner for Social Policy, Employment and Equal Opportunities of Mr Vladimir Steedl on significant steps in promoting equal opportunities, gender equality and the fight against poverty and social exclusion. Croatia has made significant progress on social issues and the need for further development of social and legal capacities. It is also important to stress that the Croatian government is actively promoting women's position on the labour market. These are respected ladies and gentlemen of the grounds for which I support the passing of the law, this law by emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u911	Thank you. Honorable representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u912	Dear Vice President, fellow MPs. At the beginning of my colleague Beus, we heard a mix in which he talked about problems in the work-social field, and this would have affected the debate if we had talked here today about chapter 19 of the social policy, employment and labour movement as one of the four freedoms on which the European Union market is based. However, since we are discussing the Progress Community programme, I believe that this is an exceptional opportunity for the Republic of Croatia and not only for the state institutions but also for the civil sector, and especially for the social partners to actively engage in the activities that the European Union finances with its programmes. Progress includes a complex area of employment and social solidarity with particular emphasis on working conditions. Anti-discrimination and respect for gender equality, with a view to achieving the principle of the Lisbon strategy as well as the social programme set out by the European Union since 2005. I therefore believe that it is extremely important for the Republic of Croatia to prepare itself during this pre-accession period as well as for the use of these structural funds in the field of employment and social solidarity. In this regard, primarily the European Social Fund. And progress is an extraordinary opportunity to start already and now with activities in line with the rules and activities of the European Union. Given the fact that this Memorandum understands and enters into force on the day on which the Commission receives written notice that the internal legal requirements of the Republic of Croatia for its entry into force have been met, I think everyone here should support it without reservation and that there is no representative who should have anything against it. Clearly, we can say here that progress can also be improved through this programme by the partnership relationship of social partners that should be promoted in any case. But I think that Mršić of the SDP obviously had an error in the relationship when he heard from the head of the Independent Trade Union of Croatia if he meant this meeting that was in Vukovar the other day because, as you know, they were all members of the government and prime minister at the meeting. So that's not true. And it is agreed and not only is it agreed but it is also the view of the social partners that today's level of social dialogue has reached the highest level of social dialogue in Croatia at all. So I'd like to see it in the future when it communicates or informs itself that it collects on multiple sides of information because it will certainly be accurate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u913	Dear Representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go. ... Correction of the quote. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Honored representative Plasimir Mršić Excuse me, excuse me. [[Thank you, Mr. President.]] We've got a correction before. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u914	Well, I'd like to... /The speaker's off. /... it might be a good idea if you didn't play with those buttons there and the president of the club would explain to you what those buttons are for, right? So I'd like to correct my colleague Kunst and ask you otherwise vice president to react at your club. So I don't know if anyone's listening to my cell phone or my phone, and I don't even know how my colleague Kunst got the information whether I or I wasn't on the phone with Mrs. Knezevic. And I don't suppose I need your permission to communicate with the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, including Mrs. Knezevic. And Mrs. Knezevic, for your information, had a press conference saying what happened there, didn't she? So they could be all citizens of the Republic of Croatia on the link, and I, of course. So do you. And the prime minister who scheduled that meeting with the social partners. And to you as well as fellow Hebrang, I recommend that you do not read Monday's speeches, but when you come to the session Thursday to do... Thursday's speech. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u915	The recommendations are not in the domain of correcting incorrect allegations so that in the future you are deprived of it, please. Dear Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u916	Dear colleagues, I didn't play with any buttons, but I was called, so I started talking. So the microphone was on. I would also show my support here for this project, this law, and I would join those colleagues who spoke affirmatively about it, and first of all, I would actually look back on ours and I don't know what it is anymore, professional, proverbial, or I don't know what kind of disheartened self-criticity is. For to whom we in the world can make an impression of the credible if we keep speaking for ourselves and when we are not late, we are late. So, instead, how can we convince others to take us seriously if we are alone and when we should and should not withdraw that we are late, that we are not able, that we cannot, etc. So it's absolutely unnecessary and I'm removing it. On the other hand, I am also removing some of the proposals here that have been proposed, and in order to improve some of the situation in this area, as I do not know, there have been several proposals that this Government and this Parliament have adopted in the last term, even laws on the subject as well as so-called. A lifetime of education. So it already exists, it already has, and there's no need to make it up again. And then when it comes to quotas as registration quotas, the increase in the registration quotas, etc. So let us only remember when Croatian defenders, or children of Croatian defenders and victims, were enlisted after crossing the threshold. Then it was said the universities would collapse. Therefore, we cannot measure ourselves by double standards, and let us be honest and truly credible in this. And now that it's a PROGRESS. When you look at this material then you can't read out of it everything that he is and it's normal because there's actually a lot going on with him and I think it's very important to tell the public how much more precise it is. So from what I, what I could come up with, are programmes related to employment, social protection and social inclusion, working conditions, combating discrimination and gender equality. When it comes to employment, it is, in fact, an attempt to develop modules for labour market research. Therefore, all those involved should know that it is and should report to the competent ministry to make these projects operational and to withdraw funds and, in fact, to change the situation if they are unhappy with it in the area. When it comes to social protection and social inclusion, this relates primarily to connections between national strategies in the area and the European Union. So that's what I'd say even learning and getting to know each other. It's not just copying I don't know from the European Union. When it comes to working conditions, then there are some three areas for me, I find them particularly interesting to us doctors who are here that is health and safety at work. Therefore, all those dealing with this problem should address and know that they are connected to this Ministry of Health. Therefore, all people who, or institutions who want to do projects in the area should report there, or communicate and produce results. When it comes to combating discrimination, they are primarily awareness raising programmes, and when it comes to gender equality, it is an action plan for gender equality, etc. So, one more time this is one of the safe, absolutely safe laws. We are nowhere late, and in particular we are not late if we ourselves believe that we are ready and able to do what we on this side of the assembly absolutely do not suspect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u917	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Plasimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u918	Here, I'd just like to replicate my colleagues, Bagaric, as far as the first part is concerned, so life-long education and registration quotas. If you listened carefully during the last term, then you could hear that at almost every debate when it was about the budget and about some other laws you insisted, asked, asked, asked to increase the registration quotas to high school institutions on the burden of the ministry. Unfortunately, they're almost not increased. They've increased not insignificantly. We have a situation that, unfortunately, under 8% of Croatian citizens, there is still no education above secondary education. Some 450,000 citizens of the Republic of Croatia have not completed their primary school. And to get to what's now being said about competitiveness, we need to significantly increase the number of people who will have developed competences and graduate from higher or higher schools. We simply can't do that if we stay on these quotas. And even we have asked here to double the quotas at high schools, but not that students, or students and parents must possibly pay for that education. So you can't complain to us that we were against the quota hike. Even more so when it was the question of the children of the defenders, we pointed out as an argument that there was so much and more need to increase registration quotas to universities. And as far as lifelong education is concerned, unfortunately, it's written on paper, but it's either done in a way or in a muddy way. Today, you have in the Republic of Croatia 450,000 people who do not have a completed primary school of everything somewhere around 4000 are involved in the basic education process for adults, and this is a huge space where we all have to act together if we really want to increase the competitiveness of the workforce and to get the workforce to have those competences that future jobs in Croatia and the European Union are looking for. But we are certainly for that, and I hope that the government will propose in the budget that today is in the cabinet's session that at least 30% increase the registration quotas at universities in the Republic of Croatia to the burden of the ministry. Then you will be credible in your statements.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u919	Reply to the replica, respected representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u920	I would like to thank Mr. President and allow me, Mr. President, to first and foremost congratulate Mr. Mr. Gristle on the award you received and your city, I think it was a week of movement or so. Anyway, it's very nice. But on the other hand, there's another nice thing. This is proof, your statement here is proof that the opposition has yet united and that it did not crack in opposition, because you were actually talking to me, us, and I was talking to my colleagues from the HNS, so a colleague from the HNS was talking about quotas, about strategy, etc. So, you've taken over actually answering on your common behalf and I think it's a good thing. So, two good things. And thirdly, I agree with you to a large extent other than these political parts that you've cleaned up, that your replica would have been much better and more effective, and they relate to how the government didn't do this, that etc. and when you know that and that there is an incomparable situation in relation to the government which was the previous reason and that this government is ruling Croatia for the good of everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u921	Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u922	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Vice President, the honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. It is good that Croatia will participate in the programme of employment and social solidarity, and in accordance with the conditions set out in the framework agreement. It is good after all those calls from Europe to privatise everything and everything to free the market and everything that we have done and we will still deal with adapting our laws. But this is a topic I would like to talk about, considering that these are the very issues of globalisation, primarily of labour and the question of workers and their mobilization, but above all the protection of workers in the dominant state, i.e. in the Republic of Croatia, a matter of national interest a couple of excellent. Today it's a national issue, not listening to journalists or possibly some cop out there in Sibenik. That's what we gentlemen here need to talk about and stand together in defense of his rights, i.e. the protection of their own citizens. Because the purpose of the government, every government is not in its choice, and as we have agreed, but in what kind of protection we provide to the citizens, what protection we provide to the workers, in short what standard of living and improvement we provide to the citizens. So far, we've talked about various legal proposals, there's been a celebration of freedom of capital, there's been a big progress, but there's no work. The work was something that was marginalized and if you wanted to be trendy then it should have been mentioned as little as possible. However, no country in the world or the most capitalist country has improved its economy with market freedom alone. I think that in this time when the bauk of inflation has surpassed Croatia, and in general it is known, I think that we will all agree on that, that inflation is primarily the result of the internal situation in the economy, and for the situation in the economy, that is also the result of the economic policy for which direct government is responsible in one country. It wouldn't be good if the government was under the understanding of these fundamental problems. If the situation is mitigated, it will not be resolved in such a way itself but will deteriorate if radically no action is taken and immediately. The government must not passively assist the collapse of the standard of workers and citizens, and the SDP, as is generally known, does not agree to vulgar capitalism and further awareness of work. The SDP, too, and I, of course, does not agree to economic fatalism against which all struggles are in vain. Such neoliberalism as it is in our work is similar to AIDS. It destroys the immune system of its victims, i.e. State. In this time of dangerous collapse of standards therefore to talk about this topic and on one common basis, on one common consensus it would mean that we are aware not only of the level of so verbal but really in life to start solving these fundamental problems. So unemployment growth, wage cuts and pensions, an increasing number of poor people warned us last year about the International Monetary Fund, that hated institution of capitalism that we often liked to call it depending on which rows we sat. When they warned us last year about the danger that Croatia is on the threshold and that poverty is knocking on the door of Croatia, we were deafened. But all of it, therefore, has deep and political implications. Because precisely to the extent that they are destroyed, they are destroying the social conditions of broad political action, democratic decisions, and even when they are formally made very correctly, they are in fact losing their credibility. So a country that worships the free market as a golden calf cannot in itself bring economic prosperity or freedom to its citizens in the fullest sense of the word. Similarly, it cannot provide a sense of security or a minimum of social stability and an predictable future for its citizens. Workers seem to be left to themselves, these great social risks, and then in their finality they lose that feature of the citizen, and the man who constantly and the worker, who constantly fears for his job, for his salary, for his pension, for his rights, of course he's not a free man, no matter what we draw in the Constitution or in certain laws. Because the foundations of the democratic state are also built on solidarity with the defence of public goods and promotion of general interest, so that this personal sense of security must prevail. A government that should be done to this particular occasion. That, instead of fighting all my forces against the announced union protests, it must come out with its clear programme and even with some better reforms, in any case it is necessary to tell citizens the truth. The state government should stop stimulating the proletarianization of employees. Simply in Croatia, the difference between employees and unemployed has been reduced. There is one particular round of stakeholders or some that the state government wants to attach to, so that there is a connected state budget, not exactly taking care of work and protection of work. And in such a way that all, that is, one part of that kind of a large number of citizens become equal, but in which equal, equal in poverty. Croatia therefore needs the Ministry of Labour. Many more advanced countries with a high standard, a high standard and several times higher than Croatia have the Ministry of Labour. We don't have it, and that's exactly how important this problem is to us. There are a lot of malls in Croatia, there are plenty of places to trade, but there are few places to make money and we should talk about it very much. A few years ago, it seems to me now for the third year of the fourth month, at an international forum in Switzerland, please discuss the difficult position of Croatian workers. It is said there are few places in Europe where a worker is willing and forced to work with so few rights and for such a small salary. And that's what we should talk about. Today's worker feels lonely, weak. But the individual of these weak impotences, united, are certain to become power. And in this we are looking forward to that very fact that with this mobilising of the workforce, Croatia will have something to learn, in the end not only to make their workers sick, but also to strengthen themselves in seeking their rights. Talked to each other lately, since '90. in Croatia a lot about political and civil rights. They're just a letter on paper unless we talk about social rights, cultural rights, and educational rights. Such rights then remain a dead letter on paper. But it is obvious that Croatia is now facing a struggle for social justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u923	A few corrections of incorrect allegations. First, a respected representative, Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u924	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! A colleague of Antičević-Marinovic hurt, so I reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u925	You're not. I was looking at the tile...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u926	Yeah. For the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u927	You're a black tile. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u928	I did.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u929	We accept. Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u930	For the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the colleague injured Article 214. A Rules of Procedure that says, if a representative does not stick to the subject under discussion. I haven't heard from her at any time that she's stuck to this subject, and that's the bill on confirmation. She talked here about listening, about AIDS, about many things that really aren't about and of course many other things. So here, please warn here and keep the need for a colleague to stick to the topic under discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u931	Let's stick to the subject. Although keeping the topic is a very stretching term. Dear Representative Boris Kunst, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u932	Dear Vice President! I am pleased to hear the representatives of Antičević-Marinovic, where she stressed that the SDP has been taking special care of the working and social position of workers in Croatia, which I am pleased to hear, means that the party has reformed since it was in power. And I must say, I've just heard from the representatives of the SDP who mention, they say, for a certain time, about 80% to 90% of the workers are employed for that precisely during the time of the SDP government or coalition, but I think the SDP that was in that coalition has been amended by the Labour Act in that sense. Well, the bankruptcy bill has also been amended where workers from the first payment order have been transferred to the second. So their retirement benefits are also reduced. So it's also reduced workers' wages. So it's interesting to hear Mrs. Marinovic's exposure today, I'm very pleased. It means that this party has really been reformed in a positive sense, which is important for workers to hear in Croatia as well. But let's not forget last time. And in the end, I would like to use it to congratulate, however, the SDP that founded the shadow government. This shadow government, even in the shadows, could fight for the interests of workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u933	Comrade Kunst! This wasn't a correction to an incorrect quote, it was one comment. And that is where you have indeed violated the decree of the Rules of Procedure. There is a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u934	Your Honor, Mr. President! The Rules of Procedure, provision of Article 209 which you yourself have established, have been violated. Here, warn Mr. Kunst of that. Let him bravely, carried out with his own experience of union courage stand behind this yellow tile and then replicate to me, so that he may cast himself out to the executioner and answer to his own replica. And as for the workers, I think since this abuse has distorted my exact quote, I'm just saying, from 90 to 2000, five hundred thousand jobs have been lost. And the Institute of Temporary Employment for a certain time was well imagined, but unfortunately it is being misused. And especially lately, to the limit. As well as where there is a need for permanent employment, we are all aware and there is something to be done. So to defuse it, that abuse of that right.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u935	There he is now. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, and from the violation of the Rules of Procedure, you enter the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u936	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u937	Not on self-help. Something to say is that you have more, that you will also seek the necessary defense to apply this institute. ... There's a big difference between extreme necessity and necessary defense. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yeah, we can't do that. ... Yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Dear Representative Niko Rebic, correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u938	Thank you. So, dear colleague Antunovic, when he says that those in the SDP... Antiquity, yes. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] When he says that those in the SDP do not agree to such capitalism in which work and workers are defecated, it would be much more credible that when they were in power they did not change the law and so cut off workers' rights that they made slaves out of them, and made slaves out of these big ones in chains. So much for your credibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u939	And distinguished representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u940	Greetings, dear Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Here I am, supporting the adoption of this memorandum law, but I am obliged to say a few words. It's a good thing we have this law. The memorandum, it is good that we have every new budget item to encourage employment, is good for every kuna that invests in education and invests in employment. However, this proposal, as well as other proposals and recommendations from the European Union, will not solve our concerns or save us. It can direct us and we just have to work things out on our own. The European Union won't help us if we don't help ourselves. What is otherwise a problem in Croatian politics, and especially regarding the executive power, is the implementation or direction of the implementation of such laws. What I have to say is that there is no social solidarity, there is no and there is no social solidarity while unemployment is high, while there are no new jobs. Only new jobs, only creating additional values can also pave the way for social solidarity. I can't have two unemployed people social solidarity amongst themselves, because they have nothing together. You'll agree with me. But I'm going to have to say a few things that should be speeded up, if not so far, a few things that I should run into if not so far, and that's on the trail and discussion of my predecessors. What is the problem with encouraging employment in Croatia is the fact that we have an insufficient number of highly educated people. It is a fact and it is a fact that we must not run away from and should increase it, even if Col. Mršić said with an increase in the registration quota this year then and with an increase in the registration quotas this year. Also, where the problem is still quite difficult and not quite as flexible a lifetime education i.e. A lifetime of adult learning, and he said something about it, but I wouldn't repeat it. What I would like to stress is two things that are not touched today and here they are, in Croatia are present. Not everyone has to be educated for the university, nor is it the goal and desire of Croatian politics, Croatian government and Croatian citizens. However, what we must encourage, and especially the Government, is to control the implementation of professional practice. Many people who finish vocational schools because they carry coffee around, because they don't do what they're supposed to do in the labour market so they don't know how to do business. That's what we need to change and fix. Another thing is to create a register of professions and market needs related to education. So, one that will be regulatory between education and the labour market because that is the only way we will succeed in the intention of hiring as many people as possible, we will succeed in our intention to create a great added value. Croatia's economic growth is not at the level of expectations and this is bad, but every kuna we invest already today in encouraging employment and education will already return several times next year. If we don't invest it next year without having the same thing, maybe we'll have less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u941	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u942	Okay. We're going to vote on the bill's proposals. Final draft law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Community of the Republic of Croatia on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Community programme for employment and social solidarity and progress. The emergency procedure was therefore. The debate is closed. The amendment submitted by the Legislative Committee was accepted by the Proposer. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Does anyone mind? Restraint? There isn't. I find that, unanimously with 120 votes, this law has been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u943	We're going to the next point. 5. Proposal for a Law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Community and the Republic of Croatia on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Community programme "Special Programme for Entrepreneurship and Innovation (EIP) as part of the Competitiveness and Innovation Framework Programme (2007 to 2013)), with the final bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 4 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. When establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this law. In accordance with Rule 159 of the Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments to the end of the debate carried out by the Committee on Economic Affairs, Development and Reconstruction, legislation. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship Tajana Kesic-Sapic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u944	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I would like to brief you on this law and further explain because I saw that the debate on the past law was going in a direction that I would not wish for because of some ignorance or inconceivability to go on this one. Therefore, the European Commission has launched a new programme for competitiveness and innovation under the short name CIP in which the Republic of Croatia is involved as a candidate country for membership in the European Union. The estimated duration of the CIP is from 2007 to 2013 and one of the components of the CIP is the specific Programme for Entrepreneurship and Innovation, etc. The EIB for which the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Community and the Republic of Croatia was signed in Brussels on 1 October of last year. The aim of the signing of this Memorandum is to strengthen competitiveness mainly in the area of small and medium-sized enterprises, foster innovation, improve financing of small and medium-sized enterprises, and encourage economic and administrative reforms to boost entrepreneurship. Of course, the Republic of Croatia must participate with an annual membership fee which shall be determined in accordance with the procedures and conditions applicable to all Member States and candidates of the European Union. For 2007 the amount of membership fee that the Republic of Croatia must pay from its budget is 25% of the total amount and 75% is co-financed by the PHARE programme in 2006 while for 2008 the Republic of Croatia is part of 10% of the membership fee, while 90% is co-financed by the pre-accession IPA fund, meaning in kunas for 2007 and 2008 the budget of the Republic of Croatia has been allocated to the Ministry of Economy by one million and 400 thousand kunas for the financing of the two years. Now, in the last debate, there were questions whether we were late or not. Of course, we're not late. The European Commission has given us the green light, or all of our institutions, that, regardless of what the law is not ratified in the Assembly, they can apply for a tender that came out last year. I must remind you that last year, two tenders came out, one with a fixed duration until the end of 2007 for institutions supporting small and medium-sized enterprises and one tender came out also at the 12th month of last year, which is without limitation, so until the use of the funds relating to financial institutions of the Republic of Croatia, which will be able to finance small and medium-sized entrepreneurship under better conditions based on a more favourable credit interest from the European Commission. I am pleased to say that when the Ministry of Economy received an indication that the Republic of Croatia could be included in the programme, it held a whole series of workshops and seminars with institutions that encourage entrepreneurship and which appeared in the competition last year. I must especially praise the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, Bicro, Technology Parks, Technology Centres, which, in cooperation with the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Science, have run for projects and I am pleased to say that I have passed on the projects and are awaiting ratification in order for the European Commission to sign this agreement directly with them. I hope that you will accept this law for the benefit of all our entrepreneurs, or all the institutions that will be able to report to the community programme this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u945	Thank you. The Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction? For legislation? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club, respected representative Marija Pejcinović-Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u946	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished fellow State Secretary. Well, here's the great pleasure for me that, in fact, on behalf of the club, my first exposure is precisely on community programs because it seems to me that this is one topic that is extremely important for Croatia and I will try now to say something at the beginning in a general context in which Croatia has been given the opportunity to participate in community programmes. I think it'll partially explain some of the misunderstandings or some of the ignorances about them. In fact, Croatia has obtained the right to use pre-accession funds by obtaining candidate status, among other things, but this is not about that, so it has been given the right to participate in community programmes. Where is the difference between the two, I think it will explain it, and what does getting such a programme mean for Croatia and what does it mean for all those who will be able to participate in it? In fact, you have a situation with pre-accession funds that for one financial year and here I think it explains a part of why FARE 2006 can be paid in 2008. The coins are allocated in that year, paid formally from the budget that year, but according to the rules that you have brought and established in this Croatian High House, this happens in one period which up to two years after, therefore, approval of what shows, that the budget is calculated in 2006 and is paid later. And so, in pre-accession funds, we get an allocation as a state and it is known exactly, Croatia can get and use so much and so much money. The Community programme is about a very different situation, so we are already in a game like what we are waiting for when we become a Member State. And that's actually the differentiation of specifics, that's what makes it challenging but also the benefit for Croatia especially in this case. In fact, with the Community programme, our subjects, therefore, all those who will be able to participate in this will compete equally, I repeat equally with the Member States, therefore, with countries that have been taking part in such programmes or with entities from those countries, which have been taking part in such programmes for a very long time. And why does it matter? I will also tell you in the end because it concerns the whole of our accession process and what is most important and what is indeed the goal of all of us in Croatia, I am convinced that when Croatia joins the European Union, it has a very clearly positive balance, so that the benefits are certainly greater than what costs will be. So why, now an explanation of how many programs there are. There are 25 of them. Croatia has always been in the past financial perspective, namely, this budget period planned for 7 years, so the first perspective was in 2006. We have been following procedures which unfortunately, for us complicated, long, etc., have been given the right even though formally since 2004, remember that June when we received candidate status. However, indeed in the right sense, we could begin to prepare ourselves when we got the green light a little later and Croatia had to assess at that time if, in order for this benefit-cost ratio to be in favour of what we can expect as this positive item, Croatia decided to participate in six programmes. For the reasons that some were at the end, that others had long-term procedures and so on. However, today we are in a new situation, Croatia is now entering the 2007/2013 perspective. In this case, Croatia has decided to participate in all 25 programmes in different ways. This memorandum of understanding, therefore, which to join in the Community programme, the specific programme for entrepreneurship and innovation is extremely important because it creates legal formal assumptions that our institutions, companies, bodies of state administration, associations and so on can compete in this programme. Ms. Secretary of State explained, therefore, and one other thing that is important to see when these procedures are so long, complicated, when there is a problem that this memo is confirmed immediately, the commission has come to the meeting, made it possible for our companies to report to us before this formal confirmation here, and it will, in fact, be able to report directly to the diplomatic note again that we have confirmed this, it will actually immediately mean that practically some of our institutions that have come forward will be able to participate directly receive money for some projects. Just participation brings, I'd say multiple benefits. On the one hand, funds, grants, loans, guarantees and so on, the transfer of good practice, networking with partners, the creation of infrastructure and, in particular, the acquisition of the necessary knowledge for the use of Community programmes. Finally, I would say no less important, participation in these programmes, the Republic of Croatia will also prepare for full membership in the European Union in this area, and of course this will ultimately mean a very concrete and materialised benefit for the Republic of Croatia as a future member of the European Union. This new program, and I think it's just as important to know, because when it comes to someone... in the European Union, then she herself has a problem using. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we must say, therefore, when it comes to the new programme then and the process of creation, therefore, the conditions under which it will be used in the European Commission take a little longer. I think there's a partial explanation in what's only now here and in that. So this new program brings together nine programs so far. With the aim of uniting the objectives of the so-called Lisbon agendas, which highlight the main objective of becoming the strongest knowledge-based world economy by 2010. And here, in that part of the programme for innovation and competitiveness, whose most important part is, here to say, there are three parts of that big framework programme, we are today confirming one, in my knowledge, will soon come another that is called intelligent energy. We took part in the past financial perspective. And another third that's new. So, in this too, it certainly kind of harmonizes with the components that are recognised in the Lisbon agenda. Small and medium entrepreneurship in the Lisbon agenda and in all the reports that followed it has been recognised as the main driver and important sector of the economy and innovation as the basis for development that can be achieved through this programme in Croatia which, therefore, I would point out here that we are also a knowledge-recognizable country, which in these strategic documents that were quoted earlier, the strategic framework for development in 2006 and 2014. The governments of the Republic of Croatia have just recognised knowledge as one basis on which and in Croatia we see how it can be further developed. In this sense, Croatia is already working on a number of projects and this programme can further strengthen the activities that we are already carrying out or planning in this area. The programme for promoting entrepreneurship and innovation primarily encourages innovation, promoting best practice in strengthening small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and is intended, and I think it is important to see, therefore, it is an important difference from some other programs for companies that are being set up or are in the initial phase. So, not for companies that have some difficulties and so on, but for those that will be recognized in excellence. And I think excellence is exactly what we have to do even more and actually base our future development on it. The seven-year budget for this programme forecasts EUR 2.17, 170 billion within which just over half will be allocated through banks and specific funds that can be used in terms of loans. 17% go for the so-called. The network of a European company where support services to the business world, etc. is provided through a network of centres for the provision of services to the so-called business world. Euro info centres and innovation centres can be used. About a quarter goes to promote innovation with an emphasis and once again one new approach to environmentally acceptable business policies and ultimately the other 6% to support policy-making. As my colleague explained very, very soon. So the results of this program will be very quickly visible. We hope within a very short time, after this House votes this law. So the Croatian Chamber of Commerce will receive the project or it has received it. All we have to do is formally send a note that we've ratified this. Post office, the Croatian Postal Bank is already prepared to lend loans within the part relating to financial support, therefore loans and similar types of services. And the Croatian Bureau of Statistics, can begin the procedure for obtaining grants for the activities this segment covers. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support this law by an urgent procedure since it will, among other things, contribute to the further development of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship in the Republic of Croatia. At the same time, it will contribute to the fulfillment of the so - called so - called fulfillment. a second Copenhagen criterion which speaks therefore of an economic criterion which says that the Croatian economy should be prepared for a competition in the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u947	Thank you. An individual debate. Honorable representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u948	Thank you. Mr. Vice-President, Madam Secretary of State, of course, should support the adoption of this memorandum for several reasons and should, of course, be adopted by an urgent procedure as provided for by the law defining this memorandum. This law allows for the continuation of a whole series of activities of the programme in the area of small and medium-sized enterprises which our Ministry of Economy has successfully implemented over the past four years, all necessarily and deliberately leading to the strengthening of the competitiveness of our small and medium-sized entrepreneurs from the means of cluster programmes to institutional support and strengthening it itself. Looking at the level of units of local self-government, municipalities, cities, regional self-government, the county needs to continue promoting economic and administrative reforms to strengthen entrepreneurship, a better business environment. And what is currently under way as a result of the Ministry of Economy programme that is under way over the past period. And already envisioned the continuation of a series of old, introduction of new programmes in the coming period, at which this legislation provides a necessary European framework for entrepreneurship and innovation, for a longer period from 2007 to 2013. Furthermore, it is always a question of quality and the price of the source of funding for our entrepreneurs. It is also covered by this law or programme and offers and foresees certain improvements in the financing system. This primarily refers to a lower interest rate on credits for entrepreneurs. A special story is the mastery of information and communication technologies, and in which we must recognise our entrepreneurs, i.e. a large number of our small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, have problems partly because they do not have cover for specialized services of this kind. Partly because they're not educated in that area. And finally, what should be said, which is always of interest to our small entrepreneurs where they are all over this story, which is more favourable credits for entrepreneurs in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, participation in a large number of programmes that will be opened through mergers, through clusters, through various other organisations and through the Ministry of Economy. And of course even more quality institutional support. Here are the basic reasons why I believe all MPs will accept this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u949	Thank you. Dear Representative Zlatko Horvat. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u950	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, the Honorable MPs and MPs. I'm going to say a few words about this law that everyone really needs. As I come from the economy myself, I am very pleased that we are about to arrive and that there has been a signing of a contract between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community, and with one goal to improve the situation in small and medium-sized enterprises, that is to get information and communication technology as soon as possible. Certainly, Croatia and its economy, especially in the medium and small areas, require such innovations, and this is indeed commendable that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will just join all of those pre-accession funds and all of that as we approach the European Union, we will certainly know how to take advantage of all that we have been offered. Here, in addition to the contracts already signed, we get for small and medium entrepreneurship competitiveness, we get encouraging innovation and what a simple entrepreneur needs. We are aware that by strengthening small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, indeed, through the acquisition of such innovations, and ultimately, financial support, we get one stability in the economy. And indeed, our goal is to make small and medium-sized enterprises as powerful as possible. Therefore, the funds allocated to the Croatian state budget are a guarantee that in the coming period and throughout all these years we will indeed give the small and medium-sized economy the opportunity to strengthen and certainly prepare as best programmes as possible because they will receive what is necessary through this information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u951	Thank you. Dear Representative Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u952	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, it's a very important topic, an important bill, and that's why I joined these discussions. But another reason is another article that I found in my closet this morning called economic growth, technological development and modern education. It is precisely the theme of this law – technological growth, how to ensure it, through technological growth, development, research to achieve a competitive advantage. It's not something someone will give us. It is something that we must create with our own knowledge, with our own organization, and therefore these instruments that are at our disposal are extremely important. This article economic growth, technological development and modern education was published in an economic review a decade ago and I see among the authors or as the first author of myself. Krešimir Ćosić and Robert Vabac then master, Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing, today Doctor of Science. The summary of this article discusses exactly what we are talking about here today. Technological development, the main focus of long-term economic growth. I would say technological development is a prerequisite for higher economic growth rates in the Republic of Croatia. Technological advances and innovations are particularly important processes and R & D activities, i.e. diffusion, technology as described here in the summary. The broadest framework within which the success of individual economies can be analysed is the concept of a national innovation system. It determines the level of interaction and cooperation between universities, scientific research institutions, economic operators and public administrations and, therefore, in this area, we should look for what is the objective of that law, which has been proposed by the European Union, which is forced under conditions of global competitiveness, in particular with some economies that are developing extremely quickly technologically by all parameters, financial, growth of the GDP, etc. Therefore, it is a very important law that provides opportunities for us to do what we have to do and what needs to be our contribution to strengthening the European economy through its ever-increasing global competitiveness. In the context of this bill, we are actually discussing a sub-programme of the European Union Framework Programme for Competitiveness of Innovation, a sub-programme relating to entrepreneurship and innovation with a special emphasis on medium and small enterprises. The objective of the programme as highlighted, and I will repeat it because it deserves it, I would say the exceptional attention and development of the capacity of medium and small entrepreneurship through innovation. It is about innovation, information, communication technologies, renewable energy sources, etc. However, any project, in order to be able to implement it, needs to be provided with adequate resources, and that is what is particularly important in order to strengthen the implementation of the programme's objectives in the period from 2007 to 2013, as it says for this framework programme in this budget, the general budget of the European Union provides for a budget of 3.6 billion euros. These are extremely important funds, and it should again be stressed that those who are able to boost the competitiveness of their national economy, and through the competitiveness of the national economy, strengthen the global competitiveness of the European economy, the economy as we often stress, needs to grow faster and faster, which should be based on research, development, innovation, technologies, and that is all we hope should enable the Croatian economy to speed up modernisation and proper restructuring. This law confirms a memorandum as it says here on the understanding between the European Community and the Republic of Croatia on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in a specific programme for entrepreneurship and innovation. The implementation of this Memorandum of Understanding of the Request certainly and significant financial resources from the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. How these financial resources are calculated here is clearly defined rules governing the financial contribution of the Republic of Croatia in particular to the entrepreneurship and innovation programme under the Competitiveness and Innovation Programme. It's what counts. the proportionality factor relating to the relationship between the GDP at market prices for the Republic of Croatia and the GDP at market prices for the EU 27 plus Croatia. This proportionality factor is multiplied by the annual allocation for this Framework Programme in the general budget of the European Union and thus there are quotas to be paid to the general budget of the European Union by the Republic of Croatia. In 2007, it was 496 000 euros, in 2008. 583 000 euros, etc., in 2013 million 31,000 euros. It's part of our financial obligations. In any case, through this financial contribution we hope to provide much more resources that will be in the interest of strengthening the modernisation, restructuring of the Croatian economy, especially of medium and small enterprises. What is also important to point out, I don't know if there have been reports and evaluations in these discussions concerning the implementation of this programme. So, without prejudice to the competence of the Court of Auditors of the European Communities committee in relation to the monitoring and evaluation of the programme, Croatia's participation in the programme will be continuously monitored on the basis of a partnership involving the Commission and Croatia, and we certainly believe and we are sure that it is in our interest as well. A few words more about the content of the 2008 programme itself. It's said, it's emphasized, I'll repeat. One of the priorities is to strengthen financial instruments aimed at starting A, meaning enterprises of medium and small enterprises that start and funds that need to ensure the survival and long-term growth of these medium-sized enterprises. Furthermore, the need for cross-border cooperation in terms of clustering, integration is stressed, as this is what makes Europe a single competitive economy. In any case, a very good bill of law, a lot of interesting, valuable and innovative deserves a lot more attention than this limited time satisfies, gives you the mood. It's final. This bill can make a significant contribution to technological modernisation and strengthening the competitiveness of the Central and Small Entrepreneurship of the Republic of Croatia, the overall Croatian economy as a whole. Certainly a prerequisite is a good exercise, and I would say a lot more attention to such valuable and significant laws as this, as will be one that is very soon coming into the process, intelligent energy and without any reservations full support to the proposal of this law, which is very important for modernising the Croatian economy and increasing the competitiveness of the Croatian economy in the long term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u953	Thank you. Honorable representative Daniel Mondekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u954	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. I welcome the initiative for Croatia to start using the Community programme for the competitiveness of innovation. Personally when someone asks me, let's say for my favorites within the community programme, there are 25, that would be the seventh research framework programme, it was an integrated action plan for lifelong education, and ultimately this particular goal. As you know, you heard, inside the CIP there are three blocks, three components, we have a debate today on the component first, meaning innovations in entrepreneurship, 2 billion and 170 million euros within which 430m euros are precisely for eco-innovations that Croatia has as a tourist country. It is no problem to use, or to make a memorandum, to pass the law, nor is it a great success to make. Success in community programmes is measured only if the funds we receive in the competitions are at least the same for those to whom we have paid membership fees in that fund and beyond that, of course. It can happen to us as well, for example. It starts in procedure, I agree with a very complicated one, and eventually when we finally get to the use of the funds, something happens to me called Marco Polo I, one of the community programs, and in the end, when the thing was over, the contest was gone. Secondly, it is very important for the community programme to say that Croatia has major problems and they lie in that our so-called Contact points within the ministry were paid on 6-month contracts, as they were for the sixth framework programme. It happens to us that our education is, say, university, entrepreneurs at an extremely low level. That at the different stands and round tables on European programmes, our entrepreneurs are making fun of and saying that European money is like "athens", everyone has heard of them, no one has seen them. Unfortunately, that's what's happening right now. What we need to do is not only enter all 25 community programs, but bring in a strategy to encourage our employees working on the work. Because you know that people who do this job for 3.5 thousand kuna after they pass certain educations in Europe receive offers of 3.5 thousand euros in consulting houses. And the state educates us with its meanings for employees for this job who, after some time, simply leave, go to a better paid job and the state has to start the whole process from the start. That's where one of the problems lies. So education, encouraging state administration, and ultimately promoting these funds. As I said, with the CIP, I agree, it's an excellent program, it'll help our entrepreneurs, I just have a few more questions. I would ask that in the assessment of the situation as well as for PROGRESS where responsible entities are placed, responsible entities and for the CIP are listed. I'm also curious about how it's going to be funding that membership fee if it comes, don't God be a problem with IPA, means blocking IPA or withdrawing accreditation for decentralised funds. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u955	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect alleged, respected representative Marija Pejcinović Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u956	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I actually have the correction of two incorrect allegations, I don't know if I have the time double. The first is an incorrect assumption that success only if the contribution is greater than, financially greater than what our companies or institutions withdraw. This is absolutely not true because it must be included that in the first years we must also learn how to work so that the success is absolutely to get into the program and the success is to withdraw the money, but also to gain experience through knowledge that is equally valuable and may not be so explicitly valorized. Another incorrect claim is that the money from the European funds is "cets", I think it should be informed and go either to the Central State Office that deals with the funds or with the resolution ministry, here are two state secretaries whose ministries have issued grants for certain companies and you can get a long list of companies that used funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u957	Thank you. And the second correction, the esteemed representative of Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u958	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, I'm correcting the incorrect assumption that no one has seen the money from pre-accession funds. It would be good for a fellow representative to check on the ground what is the situation in the area of the County of Požeko-Slavonska and my town of Pakrac, about 15 different pre-accession programmes are under way where the money on the account or the town of Pakrac or the ministry is launching a direct competition and funding various projects carried out in the area of our cities. There are also cities that have run: Lipik, Pleternica, practically all who have had good programs have achieved projects and the funds are being used. We've seen assets on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u959	Your Honor, Agent Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u960	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues! The presentation of counterparts, Cosic, could be a hope that this and that part of the parliament could agree on some key issues, which is science, education and technology. And despite knowing that his environment would rather listen to him than to me, it would be good for them to hear a part of those thesis he's said, and that he's been repeating or speaking for twelve and more years, if I've heard the quote correctly. And secondly, it seems to me that out of his thesis came what I want to say, which is that we have very many sweet words, and very little hard to do. It is about when we are going with this proposal towards the European Union, the European Union and we are assessing us, but it is actually a chance for us to somehow draw a line below what we have really done and not just to ourselves. It seems to me that we need to pay attention to three elements in order to be credible and to be successful. We need to know that what and who we are going through in the innovation process and how we perform in it. This innovation process certainly includes what is called "R In D" so reserch in the development of research and development that is built on highly educated personnel and actually developed scientific research institutes. FP6, FP7, therefore the European programme in which the last one has over 40 billion budgets, 40 billion euros is more than that and is built on centres of excellence, which unfortunately in the last four years of office, regardless of the legal obligation, have not even begun in Croatia, let alone completed. There'd be a lot more about the future than about the past. In order to be truly successful, we need to think about highly educated and highly specialized staff who will be able to work at centres of excellence. That is why it is necessary to keep working on improving the qualifications of the Croatian population especially in higher education where we are in some segments in one third of highly developed countries or in science doctors where we are in one sixth of highly developed European countries. Of course, it is not a question of improving the qualifications of the Croatian population only in increasing the registration quotas at universities, but is the same with increasing the registration quotas in human resources monitoring, in infrastructure monitoring and in financial monitoring of these increases. Likewise, it is actually about increasing the efficiency of study where, unfortunately, in the last four years, we may be in some aspects below those we have left behind. Second. I am glad and in any case I should look forward to the steps in any form of innovation, but I should not ignore what has been done so far in this regard. In my court, the best and most competent strategic programme for Croatia's development is 55 recommendations for improving the competitiveness of Croatia presented in 2004 and for which, in these aspects, there is no question in these materials. It is 55 aspects that put education and care first in the country, therefore, the political community for education, and first in that education is the aspect of education, which is the time and financial and human most efficient, which is lifelong learning. Lifelong learning in all its aspects and therefore seems to me and that aspect, therefore, should be given special attention to this type of activity. In that sense, if we are talking and finally, if we are talking about innovation, we cannot go beyond what I mentioned earlier, which is, therefore, specific research so-called. applied research and improving it through centres of excellence as possible modules with which Croatia will cooperate with other European countries or in the final consensus with the European Union. That's why we don't just need an increase in funds, but we also need a minutely elaborated plan that will be at least bilateral to say so. On the one hand brought by the research community in the country, and on the other hand brought by the Ministry of Science. And colleagues and colleagues, this verbal support of ours will most likely be tested next week for budgeting. And I'm afraid we're going to have to say a few mountain words and bitter truths here, because budgeting is actually a manifestation of our willingness or our unpreparedness to actually enter a particular programme. At a time when our mouths are full of economies, knowledge-based industries, better said in science, it's actually deciding whether we have a basic assumption of that, and that's the means available. High-tech clusters are hardly possible or difficult to be successful and competitive in this qualification structure that we currently have. So to conclude, we would, of course, support this law, and I will personally support it if these innovations I mentioned were included in it and, in addition, by fellow Cosic. And I join him in that, or he joins me. It's just the same. It's much more important to make things happen than to know that they were made by this guy or that guy. But it's another appeal that with words and already existing documents we finally move on to action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u961	Thank you. Replica, a respected representative, Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u962	Well, allow Mr. Vice President a brief replication of his esteemed colleague Flegi. It's really a serious, very serious subject, and I want to point out that I haven't talked about any sweet words or extra sweet words. I wanted to make it very clear, and that's what I said, words, but this is about concrete law. This is a good bill, this law best illustrates the extent to which integration processes in the European Union make sense, have its full justification and if it fails to achieve within the Republic of Croatia a critical mass for these positive, important, crucial changes in order to live better, then such programmes and such laws of the European Union help us and I hope and therefore stressed, this bill deserves full support, and the debate on these topics deserves much more attention to the entire Croatian public because there are the foundations of what is a competitive economy, accelerated economic growth, higher gross national income rates, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u963	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of the Iron Flego.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u964	I approached this problem in the same way only on the other hand, wanting to say that there is already a sufficient amount of documents and warnings and that we could have done much more than we have done, not to criticise someone, but in order to really accept it because, in my court, innovation and competitiveness is the only one or the key activity that can contribute to the well-being of all of us, it needs to be looked forward to but in order for it to be possible to really get jobs so that I am replicating, so that I am supplementing my colleague Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u965	Thank you. Dear Representative Davor Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u966	Honorable Vice President, distinguished fellow MPs. Well, I have to say, this is one of the most important topics for Croatia. It is not Croatia's chance in the big and megalomanic industry, in the mastodons of the past time. Croatia's chance is right in small and medium entrepreneurship. One Burning that the Slovenians wouldn't sell for anything in the world has more than 2.5 thousand cooperatives. And now imagine that "Gorenje" is bought by Italians, and now imagine that, instead of Slovenian small producers, Italian small producers come there. It's the strategic interest of this country, we may have had that opportunity once but we haven't taken advantage of it, and we shouldn't regret it now but turn to the future. What I see also as a strategic interest and it is a small and medium entrepreneurship we will not have that happiness or the possibility of Bill Gates coming to us in Croatia to change the address from Seattle and to make his profit here but we need to find ways to further develop small and medium entrepreneurship. This memorandum comes in a package with another memorandum, the one we discussed before, and that's good, because there is no incentive for employment, no employment without the development of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. This is where the European Union opens the door for us with these projects and this document. I would agree with my colleague, Cosic, but not to open the door for us to avoid our own economy based on this memo, but to enter us into how to be competitive. He wants to teach us. Now we have that chance, we won't have it anymore. There can't be any leaks. We don't have the right to fail. On behalf of my own and on behalf of some colleagues from the SDP, I can say that we will closely monitor the implementation of all these projects ourselves, and I announce that we will look forward to a 2008 report on the implementation of these two projects from these two memorandas next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u967	Thank you. Five-minute debate of the SDP Representatives Club, respected representative Daniel Mondekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u968	Honorable Vice President, honourable MPs and MPs. Once again, we welcome Croatia's entry into the CIP community programme, we welcome the initiative to start using the other twenty-five programmes, but once again we remind the CIP's community programme. CIP is not a pre-accession assistance programme, CIP is not IPA, PHARE and other. So projects are going to a competition in Brussels where there is great competition and where there can eventually be a low level of passivity and there is what we suspect when it comes to the Republic of Croatia and community programmes. I'm simply suggesting that I tell you what we in the SDP think we should do. We're looking for a higher level of education on community programs. So, not only by the ministries but also by the units of local self-government, universities, scientific institutes, civil society organisations that have proven extremely good at withdrawing funds from the European Union, and we are also looking for the promotion of civil servants or national contact points that do this work for community programmes. We also suggest that if national contact points need to be decentralised again at the institutes, at universities, at civil society organisations and in the extreme line if they need to set up a CIP fund from which perhaps the additional government could therefore encourage entrepreneurs who will not have enough resources to go into the project themselves. In order to increase the value of usability and to get more of our projects through and I'm warning you, it's not an easy job. At the first competition, 7. The Framework Programme has passed if I'm not mistaken for less than 10% of the projects. So it's not an easy job. In order to increase this number of countries, it is necessary to encourage clustering between our entrepreneurs and linking science with businesses because only these projects, joint projects of the private sector and our scientific institutes and universities can contribute to the development of the knowledge economy and the knowledge society, not floscule, sentences and political speeches. That's the only way. And finally, we will seek responsibility, twenty-five community programmes is a great responsibility for the Republic of Croatia because they require a significant number of people who will work on them and be paid out of the state budget, because we also have a high membership fee for all twenty-five community programmes. And there's my short answer and my colleague. As SDP, we will seek the secure responsibility of those competent institutions if it comes at the end of the European Union's seven-year budget period that the amount of funds withdrawn for the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia is less than the amounts that these citizens have paid for the programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u969	Thank you. Final review by State Secretary Tajana Kesic-Sapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u970	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I have listened carefully to your debate and I am pleased with all that I have heard for the reasons that you all unanimously support this law. I must also say that, as in my opening part, I stressed that the amount of membership fee that the Republic of Croatia should pay for 2007 and 2008 is a million and 400 thousand kuna. One project, one single project that has so far been reported to our institutions is 2.7m euros approved in the 12th month. We have information from the European Commission and from the institutions that it has been approved. Therefore, for one single project which the institutions have reported, the amount of the two-year membership fee is well exceeded. And I expect that when banks start with their credit-line requirements and finance entrepreneurship that this will greatly exceed the amounts. I would also like to ask my fellow MP one question, or one, how can I say a dilemma that said that entrepreneurs on the ground generally say that pre-accession funds are soft water, that they do not benefit from it. You're right about that. You know for what reason? For the reason that so far there has been no project in the Republic of Croatia that would have provided grants to entrepreneurs because for such free projects, the European Commission does not give money, does not give funding, except for one single project which the Ministry of Economy successfully ran for and for which a public tender was announced two days ago. It is a project PAR 2006, to support exporters, therefore, for entrepreneurs exporting up to 100,000 euros. We have our first education on Monday because, according to the European Commission procedures until the public tender, it means that it is published on the European Commission's website of the Central Contracting and Financing Unit, that is, the agency, and on the web pages of our ministry, there is no and cannot be done to educate entrepreneurs about the competition itself because it is a violation of the rules and there is a certain procedure, a certain number of days after which the competition can be launched in that procedure. The first, therefore, first education for exporters will be held at 9.30 a.m. at the Ministry of Labour and Entrepreneurship, after which 6 workshops will be held on the ground, so they will be in Osijek, they will be in Rijeka, they will be in Dalmatia. The final will also take place in the Chamber of Commerce, again in Zagreb, in order for exporting entrepreneurs interested in obtaining these grants to provide adequate education and how these projects will be reported, of course, by representatives, i.e. European Commission consultants who know how to apply to projects. It's about that part, it's not a big deal, it's 2.7m euros. I don't think that's an important amount, because in the economy ministry's budget is about 200 million kuna, only the Ministry of Economy for a project to encourage small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, but it's a good model for entrepreneurs to learn how and how that education will go not only 20.27 entrepreneurs who will be able to apply, so thousands of entrepreneurs will go through that education and learn how they will later be able to report within structural funds. Because unfortunately, even under the IPA programme, we have run for PAR 2006 as a grand one in the hope that through the IPU we will be able to continue with such a policy, however, the European Commission has rejected us because they do not approve that individual entrepreneurs are granted grants because it threatens competition for those who have not received it. And that's why these community programmes, these community programmes can't be contacted by the entrepreneur themselves, so they come forward, it's primarily intended for entrepreneurship-enhancing institutions, for entrepreneurship-funded institutions, means for that round of complete institutions. Except for clusters, but also when we talk about clusters, so you can't join five entrepreneurs, you know what cluster means, so there's both the institution and the R & D institutions and local self-government units, and so do entrepreneurs, so all those who participate in the clustering process. Just like one consortium or cluster or at the level of international networking, it means our cluster clusters of European Union clusters. This is how much, I just wanted to explain to you that, in principle, entrepreneurs have not even had the opportunity to report to the European Union's tender because there are no such competitions in the form of grants, except for SAPARD, but it is agriculture and it does not count in this part. I really hope that you will support unanimously as we have heard it now, this Law and I will gladly submit a report next year after the first year of realization. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u971	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u972	Final proposal for a law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Community and the Republic of Croatia on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Community programme, a specific programme for entrepreneurship and innovation. As part of the Competitiveness and Innovation Framework Programme. It was also an emergency procedure. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Does anyone mind? Restraint? There isn't. I find that, unanimously with 120 votes, this law has been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u973	We're going to the next point. Six. Proposal for a law on the confirmation of a guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for "A Prescription for Integration of Trade and Transport – a terminal for bulked cargo at the port of Ploče", with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 6 The Proposer is Government. We have accepted the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of this Act. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Links, the Legislatives, Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary, Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure Branko Bačić will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u974	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Project for the Integration of Trade and Transport at the port of Ploca, i.e. more precisely, for the terminal for scattered cargo. This Treaty provides for a way to settle financial obligations which may arise for the Republic of Croatia as a guarantee under a guarantee agreement with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development in the event that the port administration of Ploče is unable to comply with the contractual obligations laid down in the loan agreement with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, intended for the construction of a freight terminal at the port of Ploče. At this point in the port system in the Republic of Croatia is being implemented, four projects are being implemented, so including this project of integration of trade and transport in the port of Ploče, so three other projects in the port system that we finance mainly, but not entirely through the funds of international financial institutions. So at this point, the River project is being realized... in the river. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then, construction of the new port of Gazenica in Zadar, then reconstruction and modernisation of the Greek port in Dubrovnik. And I expect that very soon in this House we will propose also a confirmation of the contract for the construction of the Sibenik port in the section relating, therefore, to the ports of the sea. And we're also planning to implement certain projects in the ports of internal waters, so on the rivers. The first among them is the practical port of Vukovar. But on that, clearly, there will be more speeches when these projects come into operation here in the Parliament. The question can be asked why such a high level of investment in the port system, as here are only these four projects in the infrastructure section providing funds of 556m euros. And with the superstructure that follows after the construction of the infrastructure, the project and the amount, these projects will certainly exceed the amount of a billion euros just for these four ports. Namely, the fact is that... Because of the world traffic of goods, the sea is taking place and that it is practically setting up here great demands in front of the port, all the world's ports, for building new facilities. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I dare say that both on the Adriatic and on the Croatian part of the Adriatic, at this point the port capacity is not enough to accept the offered burdens that the ports might have crossed, that these projects have been implemented long before. In this regard, there are also new requirements for the provision of coastal areas for the construction of new terminals before Luka Ploče, which is why we have therefore set out in the project of integration of trade and transport in Luka Ploče. The fact is also that in the last twenty years there has been absolutely nothing invested in the construction or construction of port infrastructure and superstructures and that it is high time to develop that port, therefore, go into this project. Before the Homeland War, Luka Ploče was about 4 and a half million tons of terra, as covered by the record in 1989 and in 1994, for example, that traffic would have fallen to a modest 250 thousand tonnes. Clearly, as a result of the decline in traffic, there has also been a reduction in investment in both port infrastructure and substructure, both in port and in all port equipment. And today it is certainly a limiting factor in the further development of Luke Ploche. In recent years, there has been growth in Luce Ploče, and last 2007 it was almost at record level in 1989. Traffic at the port of Ploche was about 4 million 200 thousand tons. And it's growing at a rate of about 32% in total cargo, and in container traffic over 60% at year level. It's on one side. On the other hand, we are witnessing that according to Luci Ploče, the largest infrastructure works in the Republic of Croatia were practically taking place in the section relating to road infrastructure construction. We know that at this moment, a 5C corridor project is being implemented that will connect the building of the Port of Ploče via Sarajevo and Osijek to Budapest and then clear with all major European transport corridors. We also know that the construction of the highway from Zagreb, Split, which should be completed in Ploča next year. And clearly therefore, the remaining and perhaps the most important segment of all these transport corridors is the port as the starting and final point of the transport corridor, must be aligned with the rest, with the other type of infrastructure. So both road and rail traffic. The third important thing that determines the need for the implementation of this project as soon as possible is the restoration of the economy both in the Republic of Croatia and in the neighbouring country of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as throughout Southeast Europe, and therefore has gone into the realisation of this project of integration of trade and transport. What I also want to say when I talk about these road corridors that we are in determining the dynamics of building highways from Zagreb to Split, and then to Ploč and... According to Dubrovnik, in order to reduce the cost of building these terminals, they set out to build a road that will connect the highways in Ploča to Luke itself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That traffic is being realized right now. Its value is about 100 million, about EUR 100 million. However, what I would like to say is that, by building and bypassing, significant savings have been made in the realisation of the project of building Luke Ploče because practically around 100 million kunas will be saved because the surplus of stone, the excess of building material created on the construction of the highway and roads to the port itself will be brought to the port itself and thus will reduce the costs of the port administration of Ploče. Otherwise, when I talk about the total, total turnover of Croatian ports I think it is also important to mention it, I mentioned earlier that it is moving at the level of annual growth of around 20% to 30%. At present, some 27 million tonnes of cargo were transported to Croatian ports last year. Before defining the very project of integration of trade and transport in Luce Ploče, a study of the economic justification of the project has just pointed out the justification for the construction of these two terminals. So the cargo terminal, which would have been planned, would have been completed in 2011. Which could accept a new six million tons of cargo in Lucy Ploche. On the other hand, a container terminal that was also planned to be completed in 2011 could receive about 60 thousand tonnes in its final phase. In addition to the construction of these two terminals, the bulk terminals and the container terminal itself plans to rebuild existing port infrastructure in the rest of the port which is not covered by this project and complete implementation of the port information system. The entire project in part of the infrastructure is about... EUR million, whose funding is financed as follows: 25% of grants are provided to the state budget in the next 4 years including in 2008. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's about EUR 21 million somewhere. The World Bank is also involved in this project and it has secured an amount of EUR 58.8 million also through loans to the port administration of Ploče and again with the guarantee of the Republic of Croatia. And we had this Law confirming that contract with the World Bank in the last meeting of the Parliament and it was confirmed in the Parliament in March last year. And this project that is today, so this loan that I hope today will accept at an amount of EUR 11.2 million signed by the government. So from the finance minister and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development in November last year. So when we add up those three, these three sources of funding the total project is financially weighing EUR 91 million. The credit is therefore granted to the port administration with government guarantees, with the guarantee of a state with a 15-year maturity and a 4-year start, a variable annual interest of... Plus one percent. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So at this point it's about 5.35%. And as I said earlier, the realisation of the project itself was in 2011. The project is already under way. The state of the project is on two main segments, so on the container terminal or the container terminal, works began in December last year. The total value of the infrastructure on that terminal is 3, 4 million and 410 thousand EUR. And this decommissioned cargo terminal came up with a location permit. The construction of the main project is under way, and we expect it to begin in the spring of 2009, to start works on the construction of the decomposed cargo terminal. And one more thing that I keep very important. I therefore mention infrastructure and counterstructure throughout my presentation. The Suprastrukcion in Luce Ploče and the crossing equipment at the port of Ploče will be provided by the company on the port of Ploče, which is also the priority concessionary in Luce Ploče. I believe that through this agreement between the state represented in this case by the port administration of Ploče and the company of Ploče, a huge public private partnership relationship will be done, on the maritime good in which Luka Ploče, as concessionary of the port of Ploče, will have to invest around EUR 137 million in the port of Ploče and which has received that concession from the 2005 contract as a priority concessionary. So more investment in the port of Ploče will have to be invested by the concessionaire, so Luka Ploče is a commercial company than is the overall project of integration of trade and transport in an infrastructure sense. It is clear that, on the basis of the concession contract granted by Luci Ploče to the port itself for 12 years and since it was signed two and a half years ago, practically over the remaining 9 years, how long the concession would not have been possible for the company to equate the invested assets that are indeed large, amounting to EUR 137 million, and at this point Luka Ploče d.d. The Commission considers that the aid granted by the State is compatible with the internal market in the form of State aid. It'll be about 45 years on one terminal. So there's still no contract signed, and on the other, something less than 35 years old. Thus, through this private-partner relationship in Luce Ploče we will complete the project of integration of trade and transport and make Luka Ploče one of the most competitive Croatian ports. Given that we are already here in the process of carrying out the work on the implementation of this project, and that it is the very procedure for the adoption of the law at a stage where there are almost no more significant changes or amendments to the law itself that the Government has proposed that this law be adopted by an urgent procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u975	Thank you. The committee's rapporteurs. The Committee on Economic Affairs, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u976	Mr. Vice President, dear secretary, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development in the first session of 21 February 2007 for “the project for the integration of trade and transport – a terminal for the spread of cargo in Luc Ploče” with the Final Proposal for a Law to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia Act of 7 February 2008. Financial and State Budget Committee of the Croatian Parliament on the basis of its competence as referred to in Article 65. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the law in question as the parent body. Introductoryly, the representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia pointed out that the law in question confirms the Treaty on the guarantee of the loan agreed by the loan agreement between the Port Authority of Ploca and... a project for the integration of trade and transport terminals for scattered cargo in Luci Ploče. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition to Croatia, this law prescribes the way in which financial commitments can be settled for the Republic of Croatia as guarantees under the guarantee agreement and the competence to implement the guarantee contract. The total cost of the project is estimated at around 91m euros, and the project is expected to be completed by 31 March 2011. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget unanimously supported the Government of the Republic of Croatia's proposal to comply with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament adopt the proposed law by an urgent procedure since its entry into force is a presumption for the use of loan funds. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament supported the law in question without discussion, and unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law establishing a Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, for a project of integration of trade and transport, a terminal for the spread of cargo in Luc Ploče.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u977	Thank you. Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee. Committee President-in-Office Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u978	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. On 21 February 2008, the Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the “Integration of Trade and Transport Project” and considered this terminal as an interested working body, in accordance with the provisions of Article 140. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The opening statement was given by a representative of the applicant who pointed out that this law confirms the Treaty on Loan Guarantee and the construction of a bulk terminal. And a couple of data related to the project. The project is estimated at 91m euros. The EBRD will co-finance one of the components of the project and this is a 11.2m-euro terminal for the scattered burden. The remaining funds needed to finance the project are secured through loans from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, amounting to 58.8m euros, and the remaining 21m euros will be the share of the Republic of Croatia in financing the total costs, and will be planned in the state budget during the project's implementation period. The Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament has unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on the confirmation of a guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and this for the project of integration, trade and transport of the cargo terminal in Luc Ploče. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u979	Thank you. The Legislative Committee. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club respected representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u980	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community will, of course, support this Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a project of integration, trade and transport, or for the construction of a decommissioned cargo terminal in Luc Ploče. I believe there won't be a lot of debate and even less controversy about this project, that is, this bill, because it really is about building a basic infrastructure in Luce Ploče that will mean all the development of not only the port and city of Ploče, but also the wider region. With this construction as a building of all these projects mentioned by the Secretary of State, which concerns the basic road infrastructures, so by building a highway from Dubrovnik to Zagreb, that is, this Adriatic ionian direction, then building a 5C corridor that goes from Luka Ploca through Bosnia and Herzegovina, eastern Slavonia to Hungary and further to Baltica, and of course all those projects that are important for connecting Luke Ploče which is already happening and which can be seen in the town of Ploče itself, which is the combined road from the Ploče node of the two future nodes with the Zagreb-Dubrovnik highway, i.e. Dubrovnik - Zagreb. I think that we will get really one new quality first of all in economic development, in economic life, and therefore in the lives of all inhabitants of the Croatian South. This will also mean full employment of the Croatian south, but also wider regions. All of these studies, which Mr. Secretary of State spoke about, clearly state, indicate how much traffic will take place through Luka Ploče, as Luka Ploče is already the main port for the Croatian south, but also for the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It will also be the main port for this part of Europe's gravity in the future. So, from Hungary and Baltic, which will certainly be used by Luke Ploche. What is important for us in the Croatian Democratic Community is this savings the secretary of state talked about, saves more than 100 million kunas, because two projects are working parallelly. So, part of the construction material that we get from the work of this 100m-euro joint highway will be used, that is, already used and is now used to build these two terminals, because it is actually two terminals, although in this bill it is only about the decommissioned cargo terminal, there is also a container terminal, so the total cost of the project that has already been said here is 91m euros, and this bill will provide 11.2m euros, which will be enough to round up the complete financial situation related to the construction of I say this very necessary project. I would just say that in addition to the employment of Luke Ploče, that what is happening today is that we pray for the understanding of all citizens travelling towards Dubrovnik and the Croatian south because of the difficulties in the traffic that are happening, and for this very reason, I hope that it will all last somewhere until the tourist season, because before the tourist season we should solve this part of the problem and in this sense we really expect a full bloom. And I'd say something, I think that the records, or Luka Ploche, the employees of Luce Ploche finally deserve to be realised, because unfortunately in Luke Ploche's infrastructure, it hasn't invested much in the past 20 years. I will not mention cases where huge funds were invested in other ports, because I am glad that they were invested and quite certainly justified, but here is finally the turn for both the Ploče and the Croatian south and in this sense when it is seen that today Croatia's south looks like a huge construction site soon, i.e. the construction of the Peljesac-Komarna bridge has already started, so this project that will actually mean complete integration and Croatian territory, but also the Croatian south with all other parts of Croatia and Europe. Here I would finally say that I would like to commend the work of the ministry that made sense and save money, and of course to realize these truly vital projects for the development of the Croatian South and finally support this bill on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u981	Thank you. The club of representatives of the Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja, the respected representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u982	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs. I am truly impressed by the words of Mr. Bačić and Mr. Matošić and I like to see cranes, I like to see cranes, baggers in the Croatian south, and I love and support every building, every progress, every employment especially of those parts, to say which they used to be, and to this day were considered passive ends, yes, so I also support this proposal of the European Bank's law on the aid of 11.2m euros and I will raise my hand for this project and for this law. However, I must point out that in the Government of the Republic of Croatia's 2008-2011 programme on page 29, on page 29, right on page 29, it says that the construction of port facilities should also be highlighted on internal waters. Part of it was mentioned by Mr. Bačić in his presentation, and first he pointed out Luke Sibenik, Zadar, Dubrovnik and then Split and Ploče. As well as the representatives, it is well known in Slavonski Brod that the river port has been built for 15 years. I would say this picturesquely, to the dropper, and with the river Luka Brod there is an economic zone for which citizens of Slavonski Brod and the surrounding area and expect to employ a thousand and two thousand people, which would mean a lot to the county with the surrounding Croatian north that has the highest unemployment rate in the Republic of Croatia. Since this is highlighted as a priority in the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme from 2008 to 2011, I also clearly mention the river ports, Vukovar, Ilock, Sisak, at Drava near Osijek. Given that it is written as a priority, I hope that in the next budget of the Republic of Croatia and that the more responsible in the ministries will find probably or at least a similar model of financing both these ports and the rapid training of these ports, especially since Luka Brod is located on 10 pan European corridor and rail and road and that it is very important as an economic operator in northern Croatia that someone likes to say when it comes to Luka Ploče, about the south of Croatia. I am saying this and because we clearly intend to all together, I hope the government and I am convinced that we are developing Croatia evenly both north of Croatia and south of Croatia, so equally. That's why I'm talking about it because I'm talking about the Luka Ploche that we welcome and support this bill, but please take care of the fact that in Slavonski Brod the port has been built for 15 years, that 1500 people are waiting for jobs that are tied to Luka Brod and the economic zone in Luci Brod, so here's so much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u983	Thank you. Dear Representative Zeljka Antunovic, vice president of the House. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u984	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. With pleasure and interest, I listened very extensively and very informatively to the Secretary of State, thank you for that. What I am sorry, I am sorry that only now at the end, that is, at the beginning of the realisation of these projects, we have the opportunity to get real information in the Assembly about what is being said in four locations and in the context of the agenda point which did not exactly ask for such a comprehensive and quality explanation of the projects themselves. The item of the agenda is the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty on a project to build a terminal for scattered cargo in Luce Ploče which is as we have heard already in the realization. I was a little surprised when I saw that the government, as authorized promoters, was proposing everything in the order of the Ministry of the Sea and not the Ministry of Finance. This topic, what we would like to discuss today, is essentially a topic that should be represented here by the Ministry of Finance or the Minister of Finance. I will not repeat everything that is very summed up but also very informatively spoken by the Secretary of State, but I will still ask one question because it seems to me that this is a very important and open issue if we really want to implement this project that I hold to be large, important, not only for the development of the region, but for the development of the whole of Croatia. And it certainly represents one of the comparative advantages that Croatia has. This important question that I ask concerns not the loan on which the guarantee is given, not the one we already talked about, but the part to be provided in the budget of the Republic of Croatia. I really don't know if the secretary of state has any information about what we will see in this year's budget, because this 21 million euros should be secured within a relatively short time, the project must be completed in March 2011. It's the first important thing I haven't heard a very clear answer here. And in order to truly support the project I think it should be in the budget that I don't know how big but certainly a large and appropriate part, almost half of this 21 million, because it's formal in 2011. But this is the beginning of 2011, we still have 2008, 2009 and 2010 and one third of this 21 million, respectively. Another important question is what seems to me to be inconsistencies with what the State Secretary was talking about and what it says in the loan agreement or guarantee agreement. The secretary of state mentioned a perspective and public private partnership. In the very contract, forgiveness says quite a tenth. And that's what bothers me in this contract. And that's what I think is badly negotiated. And that's what's extremely untransparent in this extremely useful and necessary job. Namely, the guarantee agreement states that the guarantee will take the necessary measures, that is the state, to reduce its ownership stake in the company "Luka Ploče d.d." 20 percent at the most. In other words, in this guarantee agreement, the state has committed itself to someone outside Croatia, and that, for example, we have not discussed here at all, that its share, which today is about 61%, will be reduced to 20%. This is a pure commitment to privatisation. I know that fellow MPs are not too much or at least all informed about what has already been done in terms of fulfilling the obligation under this point of the guarantee agreement. In fact, the management proposed to the Supervisory Board, and the Supervisory Board accepted a concept of privatization of the port, which had long been on the part of the semi-officially, semi-officially, and was eventually rejected by the government. The government, however, rejected a project that was accepted by the monitoring board, with the majority of the government's representatives. The supervisory board accepted a proposal from the Port of Ploca Authority and that after the government rejected it, no one from the Supervisory Board has changed it either. It is a very high interest because the state invests 91m euros for concession benefit, for public good in Luka Ploce, and the benefit of that, profit, the biggest profit of this will be derived from this as the private company envisions. Someone who will become a private owner or a majority private owner of this company will use it without paying anything for all of these, to get on a plate of 91 million. It's a benefit for the board employees, it's a benefit for all those who live there. But it is also funded by employees and citizens of Ploč and residents of the region, as well as by all taxpayers from the Republic of Croatia. The concession also mentioned by the State Secretary is given as a privileged concession to Luci Ploče for a much longer period than the deadline on which the loan must be paid. The credit is paid for 15 years with a start of four years, and the concession goes to 45 and over as we've heard. What is really going to be best illustrated by the fact that Luke Ploče today, although working in poor conditions, with old equipment, at the value of the 88 million kuna core capital, made a profit of 20 million kuna in the last year. It is an extremely favourable business conditions and an even better perspective of such a company. A whole series of benefits given to the company can be accepted because I think it is in the interest and I welcome it, because it is in the interest of the development of the whole of Croatia, in the interest of increased employment, in the interest of increased revenues of the budget and all that is important for all of Croatia. But it's very hard for me to accept that this huge investment of the state is in one extremely non-transparent way without any debate about what's going to happen in someone's pocket. It reminds me very much of that period of privatisation, non-transparent privatisation, which is why we are all still suffering the consequences. It seems to me to manipulate a little bit with the story of the interests of workers because workers are small shareholders or small shareholders in the ownership structure make up less than 5%. Events on the stock market or monitoring of the growth or fall of Luke Ploče's shares show that a certain group had privileged information on the state's intentions with Luka Ploče and that it purchased a significant number of shares over a period of time. We don't know who's behind it, but there's a culinary story behind it that there's a consortium in which the one who got jobs to build this terminal, which would also be discussed because the same performer later, let's say, is significantly late in the performance of works in Lucy Dubrovnik. There's still a whole series of elements to talk about. But what's important is whether we're going to provide these additional funds, the resources needed from the budget. And what is extremely important is that if the state already invests so much, if the taxpayers invest so much in the concessional good or in the maritime good and in the port facilities of Luke Ploche it is important that the state until further notices, until it collects those funds that invests keep its majority stake in it, or that in a much more transparent way it puts someone at their disposal, perhaps just as you said, although I say it is incompatible with this in some public private partnership and it is not only the state that will pay, but also the one that will bring those funds back not only through the overall development but through direct profits from the port business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u985	Thank you. Secretary of State Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u986	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I think it is necessary to respond to the remarks or certain inaccuracies expressed by the esteemed Vice-President of the House which relate to the entire project of integration of trade and transport in Luka Ploče. Namely, you thanked in your introduction that I was exhausted, concise and informative but that you are surprised that such large projects come practically late to the House and that the parliamentary representatives are just "post-festum" to be familiar with the events in investments in the port system and so on in Luc Ploče. I, in my introduction, said that today's debate concerns the loan of a guarantee contract that only touches one part of the 11.2m euros intended for a decommissioned cargo terminal. But I said in my introduction and the following, that the debate on this project was held in March 2007 when we fully discussed this project. There was a similar debate today. There has been no signing of this contract yet, but Parliament and this House of the High at that time, so in March 2007 to the point, was familiar with this whole project. Therefore, this part of 11.2 million euros represents around 13-14% of the total funds of the trade and transport integration project, and this is the continuation of our debate, which was so in the last year when we ratified the Law on the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, or the World Bank, in March. Well, then, we were familiar with that. That's the first thing. The second thing I want to say also relates to Luka Ploče, a company that is a priority concessionist in Luc Ploče. In fact, you are not right that the management is in agreement with the Supervisory Board, which is in majority state ownership. In fact, the state still owns Luke Ploca in 61% of the share of core capital. Therefore, members of the Supervisory Board are also in most members appointed and proposed by the state or the Croatian Privatisation Fund. It is not true, therefore, that the management, with the consent of the Supervisory Board, proposed the privatisation of Luke Ploče. That's not true. That doesn't stand. This can be easily checked in an invitation to the congregation held on January 26th. The following is true, that the administration, together with the Supervisory Board, has proposed the recapitalisation of Luke Ploče and this is an important difference from privatisation, and this recapitalisation suggests that if the Assembly adopts such a proposal by the administration and the supervisory board for the recapitalisation of Luke Ploče, it remains owned by Luke Ploca by 61%, meaning that, in accordance with its share in core capital and the Croatian Privatisation Fund and the Croatian Pension Insurance Office, it would still have to capitalise on its share in the ownership of Luke Ploca and the recapitalisation, the state would still own 61%. Why did it start to capitalize on Luke Ploche? Mostly because they need Lucy Plate fresh funds, financial resources to respond to the state's investment in infrastructure. The state invests and does not pay anyone 91m euros but builds infrastructure, and an even greater demand for a company that can, must meet the requirements of the project of integration of trade and transport itself... millions of euros and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] a little over 91 million euros. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, concessionaire Luka Ploče must respond to this project as a commercial company to find funds to invest in the purchase of port substructures and the purchase of port equipment. And it is not a privilege, ladies and gentlemen, to enter a project in which you have only a concession and not a property on those funds, to provide funds for the return of your 137m euros that you must secure in order to secure the construction of a superstructure. And yet through the concession to pay off the investment that the state through the port administration invests in building a port superstructure. And instead of supporting such a project and being aware that it's in front of a concessionary and that's Luka Ploče's huge job because traffic can pretty much go the other way. In fact, we predict that the traffic in Luci Ploče will be as it is and this whole story is being built on this projected traffic. However, for political reasons in the region which is still uncertain, due to a number of other circumstances, this traffic may be directed at another port and then whoever entered that investment and obtained 137m euros in order to ensure the suprastructure and equipment of Luci Ploče remains virtually free of burden means a great responsibility to whoever goes into the project. And why didn't the government accept the recapitalisation project? At this point, I also said in the introduction that Luka Ploče and the Port Authority are in the process of signing a new concession contract. I said that Luka Ploche... a 12-year-old concessionaire, that the contract was signed in 2005 and would expire in nine years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In nine years, there is no job, and especially not in the port system, which could isolate the necessary 137m euros. Therefore, over the next few months, we will sign a contract between the port administration and Luke Ploca on an extension of the concession in which we will be absolutely clear what Luka Ploče will invest over the 137m euros in that period. And when we have clear relations between the port administration and the port, when we know what concession fee per year and per terminal will be paid by Luka Ploče to the port administration or the state to repay this loan that we ratify here today. Then we will accept or not accept or some other model of purchasing the assets of the commercial company, enable the purchase of that superstructure to the company of the port of Ploče. Therefore, it does not stand, Madam Vice President, that there exists here... that there is something here that is not transparent, something that is not clear, something that has come to Parliament under... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Although this was a speech before, here, almost a year ago when we went into the project, and that's, and that's quite clear. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And as for the government's position that in the port of Ploče, the share of capital will be reduced to 20%, that's correct. And not only at the port of Ploče, but also at the port of Rijeka, where Luka Rijeka is also a company owned by the majority of the state and is not the goal and therefore headed for the overall reform of the maritime port system in Croatia, for the state to be, and for whoever gives the concession and the one receiving the concession. Because then we didn't... rather than our goal, as it has already been built in the port of Dubrovnik, where we have the port administration of Dubrovnik and where we have the concession society of Dubrovnik d.d. which is also a private society and which the Greek port modernisation project must be responded to by challenge, by building the port of Dubrovnik's substructure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's the situation at the port of Ploche. There is no reason for the state to be an institution that builds infrastructure and sign a concession agreement with itself and be a company that will carry out a traffic jam, to be a stivador at a port. And that's what we said, behind that we're standing behind and there's no other way in the world, so that the state, and on the one hand, is the one that controls traffic... It provides port infrastructure and then also has to worry about transport, however, it is very happy to leave it to a private-owned commercial company, but which is required to implement the port plan and everything the port has to do and pay the concession because it has the exclusive right to provide services on certain terminals, i.e. to prevent traffic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, I think it was our duty at first to tell us so we wouldn't have any doubts about whether it was... and how transparent this project is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u987	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u988	Mr. Secretary of State says that it is a great responsibility for one who must be able to make it possible, and to invest huge funds for that superstructure, and also says that this is exactly what is commercial, that such companies are privately owned and responsible for ensuring those transactions that are being dealt with by the port. And that would be true, but you have overlooked the amendment of the Maritime Code, a small change that has occurred so undetected that it allows all these assets that the state is now investing, overnight becoming funds, or in favour of only a private company that is no longer obliged to do only port jobs because that change allowed them to, in agreement with the detailed plan of the unit of local self-government, change the purpose of so, the jobs for which they are primarily and established and for which the state now provides huge resources. So tomorrow night, I can create a private marina, because that's what the Maritime Code has allowed. And that should be said loudly and publicly that tomorrow they would not say or should the citizens be aware of it. And about that danger. Therefore, we expect an amendment to this law and a return to the old, to make such things impossible.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u989	Second correction, the respected representative of Dubravka Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u990	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I would use this correction of an incorrect quote actually to clarify.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u991	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u992	It means Mrs. Ingrid Antičević Marinović's correction. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u993	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u994	For four years, the break has resulted in me learning the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u995	It's good, no, no. Dear representative Zeljka Antunovic, vice president, is correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u996	I want to correct, I don't know now exactly what inaccurate quote of the secretary of state, but one of those who said it was incorrect. Namely, whether the state will keep 61% owned as it was a project of it, either it is, or it is incorrect, or it is true or incorrect this second thing you said that the property of the state in Luci Ploče will descend to %. One can't do the other. One of these two is simply an incorrect, incorrect allegation. Either the recapitalisation, call me that one way or another, is going to do the privatisation in a way that the state is going to fall or it's going to stay 61%, which I advocate. Sure. Some of them are incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u997	Thank you. I'm interrupting the session. Resume at 3:00. The debate, the first representative, the respected representative Bojan Hlača, and the second one, Zoran Vinkovic. So, at 3 p.m., continue the debate on this agenda point. At 13.30 am is the meeting of the Committee for Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities in the hall "Anta Starčević" and at 15 am in the hall "Ivan Mažuranić" session of the Committee for Local and Regional Self-Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u998	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing to work on the agenda item that started before the break. It's Mr. Representative Bojan Pants' turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u999	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleague of mine. The proposal for a guarantee law for Luka Ploče is important not only for the Port Authority of Ploče, for the entire Luke Ploče environment, but also for the entire port system in the Republic of Croatia. Speaking as president of the Croatian port administrations Community and coming from the largest Croatian port, I must stress the satisfaction that by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the competent ministry whose State Secretary for the Sea is present here, great efforts and resources are being made to develop the ports of Dubrovnik, Split, Zadar, Rijeka and Ploca. At times, ports as former social enterprises developed from their current assets resulting in their technological backlog, however, today the Republic of Croatia has taken care of the development of the port area primarily of infrastructure and can be said to have taken the model as it is present in most European Union countries. The Law on maritime good and seaports clearly defined the difference between the concept of management and the use of the port area that is also maritime good. On behalf of the State, the port administration is managed by the port area, developed and has formal tools to protect and improve the entire traffic direction in the regulation of port activities. I would also take this opportunity because I could not have appeared before as a correction of the incorrect quote of the correction that was given to the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. I would clearly say that the new Law on Maritime Good and Seaports was adopted in 2006 as amendments and additions to the Law since 2003 made clear only the possibility of ownership of equipment, which represents new, newly installed coastal cranes and provided the possibility to extend the primary concession with the decision of the port administration with the consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia but only subject to the condition of investment in the port area. To return to Luka Ploče, Luka Ploče as the starting and final point of Pan-European Corridor PC is an important factor in the entire traffic direction that runs from Ploč north to Budapest and the end of Corridor 5 to Kiev. Therefore, the proposal for a guarantee law is a strong incentive to create conditions for the modernisation of the infrastructure in Luce Ploče, thereby creating better conditions for the business of the company Luka Ploče shares company. It is known and proven that the funds invested in Luke are returned to the entire environment by, for example, developing a container terminal has been known and proven to mean $10 in the port in the entire environment throughout the newly created added value. Employment of everyone on the road from the shipowners, concessionaires, carriers were those truckers or railways. It is known to be a factor of one to five, and this means that these investments that were made on all those studies that the secretary of state had previously spoken, paid off and much before it could be under these conservative studies. Why? Because it's such an environment that it's going to make Luke Panel one, one of the most important ports in the area. Let me also point out that it is in the onion theory that ports are generators of development of the entire environment, which is very easy to see and as far as Luke Ploche is concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1000	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1001	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the council, Mr. Secretary of State. The basis for the adoption of an emergency law is set out in Article 159(1). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and that, here, in the very reasons for the adoption of this law by emergency procedure, it is justified in the light of the nature of the procedure for confirming international contracts, which also formally expresses the willingness to be bound, therefore already signed by an international contract, as well as the fact that, at this stage of the procedure, the amendments or addition of the text of the international contract are proposed to discuss and accept this proposal by an urgent procedure. This means that someone has already signed a contract between this law and this House in November of last year. Probably in the month when parliamentary elections were held, and precisely for reasons of parliamentary elections, this contract was signed without the Croatian Parliament. And it's not the first contract signed in that month November or October. In view of this, no one argues that the town of Ploče and the south of Croatia and Dalmatia do not need such a modern port. On the contrary, it would have been good if it had been a long time ago. However, with the Government of the Republic of Croatia's programme in front of it from 2008 to 2011, I remind myself, therefore, that the programme has been drawn up for almost a month and a half, harmonising wishes with the current coalition partners. There's no mention of the Luka Plot in that program. It is mentioned in only one section, which says, "Projecting and making a study of the justification of connecting Luke Ploče with Split and beginning of preparatory work." In view of this large amount of EUR 91 million, given what the secretary of state said was a great responsibility, given the situation in the region as well, here I also mention relations with Bosnia and Herzegovina. I also mention connecting, connecting with road routes, or these next two years of invisible works, as announced by Mr Jure Radić on the Pelješa Bridge. That's not what I said. That's what Mr. Radic said. In view of this, and in view of this particular relationship with Bosnia and Herzegovina, I think it is indeed one great, great responsibility and I am asking immediately who will answer if this whole project fails. Also, regarding this programme when I said that both southern Dalmatia and southern Croatia, Dalmatia, also need modern ports, as well as Croatia's north, as my fellow representative from Slavonia Mr Grubisic said, but the east of Croatia, Slavonia also needs these ports. And the question arises when they will be realized or this port in Slavonski Brod, Dunav, Ilock and Osijek will also be presented in this manner in the next term and mandate of the Assembly as another signing of such a guarantee treaty in the eleventh month of the election year. As a result, the loan obligation itself, which is unchangeable by this contract, has been put before MPs as a final act, of this amount of EUR 11.2 million, and 200 goes to interest, and it is not such a favourable loan. As regards the very way of adopting not only this law, but also the signing of the contract as a representative, I propose that the Government, namely that the Parliament review the full adoption and signing of such a contract without the authority of the representative body, or without the power of the Croatian Parliament. I believe that here is precisely the greatest responsibility of the Croatian Parliament, which this law adopts in this way, but is precisely the biggest responsibility of the Croatian government and of the Prime Minister Ivo Sanader, who signed such a contract in 11 months 2007, and now, in February 2008, we are passing an emergency procedure that allows him to sign such a contract. So no one argues that Luka Ploče is necessary not only for the development of Dalmatia, but it is also necessary for the development of Croatia and it is quite clear that it will contribute, I hope, to new employment, to new economic activities. But I underline that this is also necessary to Slavonia, Slavonia, who except for 21 km of highway and signed contract to clean the channel of the third and fourth lines and promises to dig the Danube – Sava – Danube has received nothing, not only in the past four years but since 1990. Except for that rain grenade during the Homeland War. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1002	Thank you. Final State Secretary Mr Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1003	... further explain a number of questions that remained unanswered during this debate. [[The speaker was subsequently activated.]] In the part where Mrs Ingrid Antičević-Marinović mentioned that this is how the state invests in infrastructure makes it possible later, and that it has changed the Maritime Code, as she said it itself, allows concessionaries to come to a certain property on the maritime good in a rather simple and cheap way, I say it is not true. Mr. Bojan Pants has corrected that incorrect assumption. First of all, it's not even about the Maritime Code, it's about the Law on the Sea Good, it's one thing, and the other thing is that the amendment of the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports has made it possible for us to implement this kind of project, i.e. that a concessionaire in a particular port such as the Port of Ploče “Luka Ploče” d.d., that he may enter the supply of equipment and be the owner of that equipment. Because by the time the law was changed, the entire superstructure and cranes and cranes in the ports were fine. Therefore, it was not in the ownership regime and no one could even port as an operator, as a company could not enter the investment phase because it would practically invest in other people's equipment, in other people's property. We, too, have amended the Law on Maritime Goods, not the Maritime Code, but the Law on Maritime Goods and Sea Ports, where we have allowed the realization of a new investment cycle in Croatian ports and have removed the obligation from the state to invest itself in a substructure, but have left it to a private sector which is a concessionary in certain ports. It's a very important discipline to take care of. The second thing, I also have to explain the question of Madam Vice-President Home who asked whether the state would be after this owner of 61% as it is now at the port, or how 20% of how the Government committed itself to this letter of intent when we set out in the implementation of this project and when the project found it. I said it before and I'll do it again. So, on the proposed proposal for the recapitalisation proposed by the administration, which the Croatian government refused to sign the Treaty on concession between the Port and the Port, the Croatian government stands at the stand that it will continue to own 61% and in this sense intended to enter the capitalisation. And it is true that by 2011, we will be in line with the Privatisation Act that we will enter the privatisation process of Luke Ploče, but on that, by that. Whether it'll be 10, 2 and 11. That'll be a later decision. At this point, the state wanted to enter the recapitalisation and retain its share in the capital “Luke Ploče d.d.” and two more, two more questions asked by Mr Grubisic and Vinkovic. I want to say that today if I hadn't been to this plenary debate here in Parliament, I'd be in Vukovar, in Slavonski Brod. Today in Slavonski Brod is held presenting a study of development of Luke Slavonski Brod. It was the first topic, and the second topic today is also signed in Slavonski Brod on the construction of a biodiesel plant again in Luci Slavonski Brod, so in Slavonski Brod. Therefore, it is not absolutely true that this government does not take care of ports on internal waters. So, at the river harbors. In my introduction today, I said that one of the next projects that will come to the Parliament is similar to the integration, trade and transport project that we are developing in Luka Ploče, is Sibenik, is Luka Vukovar and Luka Slavonski Brod. Therefore, these are the three ports that have gone the farthest in the realization of... projects and now we expect to address the issue of final construction and definition of further terminals in Luci Osijek together with the port administration of Osijek. Therefore, so much as it concerns investments in ports on internal waters, and I would also remind myself that at this point a project of revitalisation and reconstruction of the Sava River is being developed, that the international body of the Sava Commission is being established to care and care for and prepare a project of revitalisation of the Sava River, namely without the reconstruction of the Sava River, there is no possibility of quality development neither Luke Slavonski Brod nor Luke Sisak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1004	Thank you very much. We have one correction to the incorrect quote, Mr. Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1005	Mr. Secretary of State, I'm quite pleased, I say quite satisfied with your answer. I'm interested, you said one of the following projects. I'm interested in timing that one. You know as well as I do that Luka Brod has been in construction for about 15 years, right, like I said in my first speech on the hood? And as for the very visit to Slavonski Brod, I would be in Slavonski Brod today, and we would be together today, would there not be this session of the Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1006	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. The vote on this and other proposals will be largely in principle, there may be exceptions sometime at 3:00 Friday. That's how we keep the habit from last session of the Parliament. If it's necessary for some exceptions, we'll let you know, but here at 3 p.m. tomorrow will be a vote on these and other points. Final proposal for a law confirming the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a project of integration of trade and transport, a terminal for scattered cargo in Luce Ploče. It was also an emergency procedure. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? There isn't. Restraint? There isn't. I find that, unanimously with 120 votes, this law has been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1009	... The priority of the reform of the state administration of the Republic of Croatia has established all state administration bodies that are adequate and parallel with the authorities of the Member States of the European Union with which we want to work together in future to create a policy and implement policy in Europe as a single administrative space. [[Specially enabled.]] With this proposal for a law, we propose final harmonisation of the structure, so that not the establishment of new bodies but the redistribution of jobs between our negotiators in the course of the negotiations can make it easier for the bodies to carry out work in order to be harmonised with the relevant bodies in the European Union. So first of all, we propose that in one body all humanitarian aid-related jobs are united, this would be the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration. The Republic of Croatia is already providing, according to the possibilities and needs of humanitarian assistance to countries where disasters occur and who need help. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration will now combine assistance that will be sent from the Republic of Croatia but also co-ordinate this assistance with the relevant ministries of other countries and participate in the creation of a humanitarian aid policy and help in disasters. This bill also aims to strengthen the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship in such a way that all administrative and professional business related to public procurement and public private partnership are handed over to the Ministry. We are satisfied with the results that the Government Public Procurement Office has achieved so far, but we believe that there is more to be done in this field. We need to eliminate the perception of corruption that is sometimes related to public procurement, and in terms of public private partnership, we want to further develop this system, it has shown the initial good results, however, as well as any newspaper, and since the project entities are usually the units of the regional and local self-government, there must be a very central state body that will regulate these processes, which will guide them, in a way but also from a certain aspect and set up certain control mechanisms so that no individual set-up that manages local units is over-indemanded, and thus bring about a charge... of the state. With this law, we propose that the Ministry of Economy be strengthened and given jurisdiction over the State Intellectual Property Institute as it is in a large number of European countries, given that it is primarily industrial property, innovation, promotion of industrial production and trade. And we believe that we must follow the example of the European countries that put responsibility for this institution in the Ministry of Economy. With regard to the Bureau of Measurement, we want full separation of legal measurement from scientific measurement. That the legal metrics remain in the jurisdiction of the State Bureau of Measurement, which would be supervised by the Ministry of Economy, while, in accordance with the special law on scientific measurement, the Croatian Monitoring Institute for which the Ministry of Science would be responsible and so far for the overall measurement would be established. The State Statistics Institute, in general, is of particular importance to the state, and we believe that this current solution under which the State Statistics Institute is in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports is not good enough, because we want to give the State Institute additional independence. We therefore follow the example of the vast majority of European countries by which the government, whether prime minister or government, has decided to be under government authority. In the remaining part of the amendments to this law, the partial work of individual ministries with jobs has been completed which have been established as new public administration jobs over the years since the last more serious amendment of the Law on Construction. Therefore, the adoption of this law now ends with the establishment of a state administration body in the Republic of Croatia. And this bill was made in cooperation with the main negotiator who actively conducts the negotiations and participates in accession negotiations for the European Union. And this law will be one proof of the harmonisation of our legislation. Although it has no EU mark, it is in its essence an EU law. We therefore propose that this law be passed by emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1010	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1011	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So there's one logic that's dragged into the Croatian political, legal and other system that doesn't have to come up with a whole solution when laws are passed. The dramatic example of this is that this law has been amended 11.1. of this year. 11.1. this year has been amended by this law. That's two things he's talking about. That the Government of the Republic of Croatia was quick to come with the Law on Government at the last minute, and could not prepare in full the Law on the Organisation of Ministries and other administrative organisations. So, February 11th and today is January 21st, 11th and today is February 21st. So much for legal certainty in the Republic of Croatia. There's something else I want to say. The reason is that the norm itself is in the opposite. So it explains that the public private partnership is extremely important for the implementation of economic policy in the Republic of Croatia, and the government is organising it at the Ministry of Finance, I guess, to point out that public private partnership is the source of fiscus. So it's not national development interests, it's a fiscus to charge as many taxes and other taxes as possible. That's quite clear. And I think it is an institute in the interest of development, not in the interest of physics. Of course, in Croatia, the public private partnership from experience was also unregulated and profiled. As an example, I will state that in Croatia "Sun-Sun-Hvar" has been privatised through a public private partnership. In the public private partnership theory, commercial activity is never financed in this way, and is not particularly privatised in this way, so the partners from Sunny Hvar invest in their company, in the development of their company became its owners. It's the way we think about it, the concept of the Institute of Public Private Partnership. Another problem. A fundamental question for the democratic system of the Republic of Croatia, do we trust the democratic institutions of our system? It's a thorough question. So here the promoter stated that, as a shift of the State Statistics Institute from the Ministry, he placed directly under government supervision as if no one reads that the Constitution, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, says, the government literally formulates: "... directs and monitors the work...". So the Constitution states that the government is directing and overseeing the work of ministries and other administrative organisations as if we have now given something new to the government by amending this law. So it looks stronger with us than the Constitution. No, of course not, but they didn't read the government's section when they did this law. But that's not the point either. The essence of the problem is that statistics as a branch that is not related to any political option, no group must be completely separated from the government. Its status should be about as much as the status of the Croatian National Bank independently of the government, so it should not happen that in Croatian public but also political practice data, items and statistics are provided that it does not specify the source of these data, but is presented on a flat-rate basis. And even more so, in 2005, anyone who can remember the Government intervened because it was dissatisfied with the statistics of the Croatian State Institute by changing directors. If we go further in history, we know Croatian history that the President of the Republic said that our statistics do not know anything because it cannot be that Slovenians have a double better standard than we do. In such a situation, of course, we cannot challenge the Government to organise the delirious and jurisdiction of ministries and administrative organisations in accordance with the so-called organisation and scheme of the Government, but we cannot accept the fact that the government has a rickt so that it has an immediate impact on the situation that will emerge from the State Statistics Office. This is simply not allowed in democratic systems because democracy cannot even be developed by decree. Then it's not democracy. At the very least, I think it should be intervened at the National Institute that it is only responsible to the Assembly for spending the funds and for the programme of statistical research and not to oversee the work because it works according to the rules of the "lege artis" profession. So in that sense, it would be best for the government to intervene on its own because this is to say clearly that she is aware that statistics cannot remain in one ministry, so she tried at least to alleviate such a situation, so that's what surveillance to say to the government. And the government doesn't have the instruments itself to monitor, there's no control of government's work in terms of government itself. The government is a collective body. So, to single out the State Statistics Institute as an independent body, the state body needs Croatian economy, Croatian science and all who need statistics they will not doubt and based on which they will be able to make their own decisions. I would ask the government to seriously consider such a situation and perhaps now intervene with the amendment to this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1012	Thank you very much. We have a correction to Mr. Andri Hebrang's incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1013	Thank you very much. Mr. President, the esteemed colleague has made several exact allegations, so I will quote them and correct them. First, the government was put together in a hurry, so it didn't arrive, etc. The government was not drawn up quickly but was waiting for the non-recognition of democratic election results, and since the term of office, the government has been appointed within a reasonable period of time at no speed. Negotiations of course took place before that. Another incorrect allegation is that the government is setting up a public private partnership at the Ministry of Finance because it is the Institute of Fiscus, meaning the Institute of the Income Foreign Budget, which is not true. The government is setting up a public private partnership at the Ministry of Finance because there may be enormous embezzlement and relocation, and that is why the government has determined that the Ministry of Finance runs public private partnerships to control that the state, units of local administration and self-government are not over-indebted. So a positive and not a negative object of that decision. And the incorrect statement is that Sunny Hvar is privatized through a public private partnership that is not happening in the world. That's not true, it happens in the world. I have often cited examples of different companies. But let me just say it. The privatisation was made by the Croatian Privatisation Fund, and it is intended to privatise it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1014	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect alleged Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1015	Thank you, Mr. President. It is an incorrect allegation of an esteemed colleague who said the government wants to have a direct impact on statistical indicators with this proposal. This is only about the new structure, organisation and administrative structure of the State Statistics Institute, which is set up by the order of good practice of European countries. It's just another structure. Of course, the government can't, not even, and of course it doesn't want to affect any specific statistics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1016	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1017	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. In view of the particular need to ensure that legislative and administrative adjustments are made in accordance with the acquis, standards and practice of the European Union, and all in order to allow for the necessary assumptions for more successful negotiations under certain chapters, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the establishment and division of central authorities in certain ministries and institutions is more precisely determined by the demarcation and jurisdiction of those bodies. In particular, the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration is complemented by the affairs of international development cooperation and humanitarian aid policy. And in other ministries and this, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, the Ministry of Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare, and I stress the State Bureau of Measurement and the State Bureau of Statistics, I would say a new, wider part of the circle, or the existing part of the circle, harmonizes with specific regulations specific to each area. It is interesting and I would point out this by the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship that the bill sets out the conduct of activities relating to the development, promotion, innovation of the entire system and the coordination of the entire public procurement system, as well as the public private partnership, as well as the supervision of the implementation of the Public Procurement Act and the regulations governing the public private partnership. It is also proposed that the ministry perform tasks related to technical legislation, infrastructure, quality, including the coordination and development of national policy in the field of standardisation, accreditation, conformity assessments and measurement, as well as industrial and intellectual property activities. In that sense, which is also logical, the State Bureau of Measurement and the State Institute of Intellectual Property come into the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Labour and Entrepreneurship. So far, we all know that was in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. It is also important to point out that the State Statistics Institute is detached from the competences of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports and passes to the direct competence of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and, as well as practice, most of the Member States of the European Union. The Croatian Democratic Community Club considers that the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing and delirious the Central Authorities of the State Administration is justified and necessary in order to facilitate the negotiation and support the adoption of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1018	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1019	Thank you, Mr. President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In connection with this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Designation and Part-Corruption of the Central Authorities of the State Administration with the Final Proposal of the Law, I would like to highlight only one remark which seems to me to be important in the strategy, in our concept of a comprehensive and comprehensive fight against corruption and then on this normative plan how to strengthen the system when, therefore, we are already talking about this topic to be effective. Namely, what it is and what I want to draw attention to. The Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, which has been established for many years, no one alive knows how he works, it's secret, it's unknown, and it's an important office. And the State's Attorney's Office can't practically work, nor does it have any instrumentation like that office does. In order for it to be effective, it is necessary that it is precisely from the Ministry of Finance where it is located from the draft and where it is, for a number of years it has not been moved to where it should be, and this is in the case of the authorities of prosecution, the persecutions given by the Constitution and the law to the jurisdiction of the State Attorney's Office. Only in such a way could they effectively fight the causes, that is, of this nutritious basis of corruption. Because if you just shut up his pipe, then he likes every tumor, and that's one malignant thing in every country, here's the danger of metastasing and of course we have serious intentions and if we're going to be perceived by citizens, I think it's necessary to move the Money Laundering Office out of the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Secretary of State, in order to be effective in fighting this monster. As we know, we have big problems in our own criminal law, so our lawsuit is still at the Constitutional Court, which is silent about, that there is also this standard of interruption or some kind of normative error that prevents a prison from laundering money, so it's kind of a conclusion. And the question is, if anyone is convicted, they will surely be able to call on that the law does not have the intended sanctions and then cannot be convicted. Because by the end of the day, no one can answer criminally but only by criminal law. Namely, here are the media reporting precisely on the German financial companies' tax scandal, and this is a major scandal over the avoidance of taxes that have been shaken and which are shaking right now in Germany, in which almost all the large banks and other financial corporations have participated, which are here to avoid, therefore, the tax, having transferred their resources to Linchestein that little alpine princess and paradise for such things. Of course, the German government reacted as well. And here's what they even did, how they got to this. So, that absolutely, except that they liberalized, or relativised the banking secret, Germany, the German authorities to come to this data admitted that they were so-called. A whistle to an ex-employee, just so we can figure out what it's about to pay over 4m euros to tell them all about it. And now, of course, the German Chancellor and the German Finance Minister, therefore, have collapsed precisely in the Linchesteins, the traditional rules on the secrecy of copper secrets, and the exception of the United States has been done. So we can control the flow of money. We all know that large amounts of money, not only, at least now here to mention from the gray economy, is the most of such dirty money being poured everywhere and so, how to end it. So, let's, uh, strengthen this office that doesn't seem to make sense in the Ministry itself. Because it's nowhere in the world that there's such an important office at one ministry or there's a special agency with the government, or there's a... the judicial authorities or the law enforcement authorities, such as the specific form, have, that is, the state's attorney's office with us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] To point out that the state's attorney's office has also sought this on several occasions, it is also evident from the annual report by the State's Attorney's Office on the work of state attorneys, where they are precisely looking for in this fight against corruption to be effective, and such pressure and the public, as well as other branches of the executive and legislative authorities on them is particularly strengthening but they are precisely seeking to eat mechanisms and operatives so that they can be as effective as possible. So, they're looking for relativisation of banking secrets, which may not be a direct problem now when we're talking about the bill, this law, but in any case, here, if we want to be on this trail more effectively, and that's our biggest problem, and I think here's the time for the amendment to work, but then of course it requires an amendment to the State's Attorney's Law or as one special agency of the Government to move forward the Office of Money Laundering from the Ministry of Finance because so far as it's set up, it hasn't given any rather effective results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1020	Thank you very much. Does the Proposer want a representative? Yeah. State Secretary, Mr. Antun Palaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1021	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. I thank you for the support this law has received. I don't think there were any large polemic tones. I need to answer some questions that are still open. It is an attempt to accuse the inconsistency of the government's work because 11 January was passed, an amendment to this same law was passed, and now, in less than a month, a new amendment to the law is being repeated. Gentlemen, every activity must be and give an answer for the moment in which it is taken. Therefore, that Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law was proposed by the Club of Representatives and was intended to establish new bodies of the state administration so that the new Government could work more effectively and could be formed. The prime minister said at that time that in less than a month, he would propose a full and final amendment of the law on structure and just by making that clear, intention was also proposed. This law is intended to bring Croatia's structure into line with the Member States of the European Union. He was made with the biggest round of negotiators to run the negotiation process and with the main negotiator and all those involved. And he's responding to the demands that now exist at this particular moment. With regard to the State Statistics Office, we have a review of the organisational structures of statistics in all Member States of the European Union. All 27. Well, we do know that in Slovenia, in Poland, Ireland, Lithuania, Hungary, Bulgaria, Romania, that's with the government. And in other countries, most of them are in some, some of the ministries. For example, in Greece it is the Ministry of Economy and Finance, in the Spanish Ministry of Economy and Taxation. In France, the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Employment. In Cyprus, the Ministry of Finance. In Latvia, the Ministry of Economy. In Estonia, the Ministry of Finance. The Finnish Ministry of Finance. The United Kingdom is the Minister for Economic and Financial Affairs. Luxembourg's Ministry of Economy and so on. So we have all the data. We've prepared well. Not just us Central State Office, but the entire government team. Because we want to get into negotiations, into... The negotiations and the fact that we have complied with European standards and the circumstances that have arisen during the negotiations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So with the adoption of this law, which I am convinced, although it requires a half-breeding majority since it is an organic law, we will achieve our goal as regards harmonisation, but it will not stop the development of Croatian society, so neither will the state administration. And it's possible everything that's heard today and what's still in practice because as long as there's people there's gonna be problems. We have heard the example that in one of Germany’s countries, there are still problems as they occur in other countries. Croatia will not be immune to that either, and we will respond to the relevant problems by appropriate measures. Now I ask you to support the adoption of this law in order to achieve your goal of final harmonisation with European standards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1022	Thank you. We have one correction Mr. Representative... Neven Mimica. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1023	Thank you very much. I would correct Mr. Secretary of State's incorrect claim that this law is passed in order to bring the Croatian State Administration or the formation of the Croatian State Administration in line with European principles, practice in this area. There is no legal property in the European Union, there is not a single regulation, there is not a single joint request or a single negotiating chapter that sets out that Member States must organise their national administration. I therefore accept this here is about the need for reform of the state administration. But let's not direct that need towards alignment with the European Union, but rather, let's say what it is. We do it according to how the government imagines the state administration should function better and be better organized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1024	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. They'll vote when the conditions are met. Final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Construction and Part-Corruption of Central Authorities of the State Administration. It was an emergency procedure. P.Z. No. Seven. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to show up on the amendments. Amendment one to Article 7?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1026	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1027	Thank you. Amendment two, the article is added.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1028	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1029	Thank you very much. I am voting on the final draft of the law. I note that voting this law requires a majority of the votes of all MPs at least 77. Who's in? Thank you very much. Against? Restraint? 113 for and 7 abstentions. With 113 for and 7 abstentions, the bill was accepted. We move on to: 8. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the execution of prison sentences, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 5 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia and we accepted an emergency procedure at the Fortification. You received the proposal by mail pursuant to Article 159. Rules of Procedure. The emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was held: the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Law. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Minister of Justice Mrs. Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1031	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, here's actually a very short and small amendment to the Penal Code. And based on the observed indiscretions that have arisen in practice. However, it has recently been found that there is no possibility in the process, there is no two-stage decision, or that in the course of the decision-making process, the State Attorney's Office is not able to appeal. The law on the execution of prison sentences therefore provides for the possibility of suspending the application of penalties for the reasons laid down in Article 55. The law. The decision to suspend the execution of the sentence shall be subject to the jurisdiction of the judge and shall not provide for the possibility of appeal. In practice, it proved necessary for this law to prescribe the possibility of an appeal for a solution to suspend the maintenance of penalties primarily for the protection of victims and families of victims who are victims of a criminal offence and for the protection of the wider social community. This proposal, i.e. the adoption of the law, will allow two-stage decision-making on the request of prisoners to suspend and maintain penalties and introduce additional protection. It is also foreseen to prevent possible adverse effects on the wider social community and victims of criminal offences that this change is expected to be made by emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1032	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Yeah. The Justice Committee. The chairman of the board, Mr Ivo Grbic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1033	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, the honourable minister. At the first session held on 21 February 2008, the Court of Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Prison Penalty Act with the final draft law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by 31 January 2008. The Committee discussed the law in question in the capacity of the home working body in accordance with the powers laid down in Article 73. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In the opening statement of the proposing representatives, she pointed out that this proposal provides for the possibility of investing an appeal on a solution to the suspension of the prison sentence brought by the judge. The right to make an appeal within three days has a prisoner and a State's Attorney's office. An appeal allows for a two-stage decision on the prisoner's application. The victim is protected as well as the wider social community. In the debate, the members of the committee unanimously supported the proposed amendment, which gives the possibility to reconsider the solution to the suspension of the sentence by the Judicial Council within three days. Since the Law on the Penalty of the Law regulates, I apologize for the important area of execution of prisons in prisons, penitentiary offices and other institutions of the day initiative to dedicate one thematic session of the Committee to the prison system. After the debate was held, the Committee on Justice unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the execution of prison sentences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1034	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1035	Thank you, Mr. President, dear Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club supports the Amendment Act and the supplements of the Penal Code because this proposal is a small but perhaps significant change, given that there is a government through the ministry and this proposal wants to react in some way to what happened recently and has caused a violent public reaction when the judge is executed, so it is generally a surprise to allow the suspension of the sentence of convicts, convicts for a serious traffic delinquent with fatal consequences. However, as it is an urgent process where first and second readings are united, allow something to happen on this occasion, which makes it possible for me to speak on behalf of the club in general not only about the Penal Code, but about the complete, alarming situation in the prison system. Last night news reported that there was another prisoner who escaped from prison, walked in. We can use eufenism as much as we want, but the fact remains that in the last two years, an entire prison has escaped, a hundred prisoners or convicts have escaped. Therefore, the situation in the prison system is alarming. It is referred to in parallel with very dramatic words by the Ombudsman. He's at this dramatic system that threatens here, and it's a very sensitive system, he warned about two years ago. Last year he informed us that the situation had not only not improved, but had worsened. And you see, in 2003, we received a score of 1,2.2003, and in 2004, we received a report from the Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights, based in Warsaw, that Croatia has the best prison system, so from 2004 to the day today, this system has almost collapsed. From a regular meeting of all the managers in Pula, they have come to a unanimous conclusion that they will not speak at all about the transfer. It's somehow already considered a normal phenomenon. So this abnormal occurrence since it became common is considered a normal phenomenon. How do you work in that and in such conditions? In fact, it's time to remind ourselves of what the Attorney General said in his report. So, apart from that pre-opacitation that in certain prisons or penitentiaries reaches a percentage and up to 180 percent, I think it speaks for itself. Also, there's a huge and large number of prisoners in prisons. According to the occupier, it is a serious problem not only of the conditions and inhumane conditions of the convicts and of the prisoners the state is responsible for, as the obligation is to the state when such a person is imprisoned did not cease their obligations to such a person, but, in fact, new ones have arisen. The occupier is saying that this is already a serious security problem and the cause of violations and violations of the rights of prisoners, detainees and convicts, which is why Croatia has been responding several times to the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg for the last few years. Major damages were found to such prisoners with a warrant for the state to repair that situation, but it did not. Therefore, it is again waiting for Croatia because it is not considered a verdict, but again every prisoner, prisoner and convict can repeat the same suit and ask for compensation from the state, which is a pity. Instead of spending such funds on such compensation, instead of investing them in what is due and therefore the funds must be found. I believe, that is, on behalf of the SDP club, we will look for it in the state budget, in any case, unless the funds for this are sufficient. For example, although Article 14(1) of this Law provides that each prisoner is entitled to accommodation suitable for human dignity and health standards, and Article 30. The rules on house rules in detention prisons, that detention rooms must meet the spatial, health and hygiene conditions, the conditions of accommodation of prisoners, detainees and convicts are very bad, and in certain prisons and penitentiary facilities can be concluded and that is said by the Ombudsman, are below all health, hygiene standards and completely inappropriate to human dignity. It's funny how on this all the country, i.e. The authorities are deafening. However, what I would like to draw attention to even though this is about a positive change, one of the amendments to this law, the Law on the execution of prison sentences that have occurred lately, i.e. Last year, in any case, the reduction of standards and we are awaiting a re-amendment of this law on the trail of international and European conventions on the right of convicts and banning all forms of torture against closed persons. In fact, we had such a situation that again in a way we allowed the politicalization of the leaders in the prison system, and this happened to the amendments to last year of this law where exactly the leading man in prison and the penitentiary must not be a person of the profession, nor must he have those criteria that we were bound by the law when the Penal Code was passed but the matter is relatively relatively, so that every officer with five years of experience in the state service can be a leader, which means that he must then do from those persons who are in the prison themselves, who are subordinate to him, who should be managed and controlled by him. Also special rights of authorised persons in respect of salaries, are deleted by amendment, have been deleted by that amendment and by supplementing the law. The rights of prisoners and convicts have been reduced, but what is particularly regrettable is that the amendments to this law have been made to the salaries of officials with special working conditions when they were increased during the coalition government of 30% and 25%, so as the wages were reduced elsewhere, we have made it possible here to increase the maximum in the view that this is the most stressful interest in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, these latest changes have been analyzed. So it was a situation when international institutions rated us as having an appropriate and appropriate prison system, that this law was an example of transition countries, that many countries in transition prescribed our law, but here we reduced those standards by these changes. But just such a normative way and financial investment both in education, both in these officers and in the main people of the system, and in enabling better standards according to these international conventions, prisoners and convicts, the fact was that from 1.3.2002 to 1.3.2004, no escape of prisoners from prisons and prison penitentiary of a closed type was made. Today the situation is like this, and the media is writing, and I don't know how much it's worth to believe, how drugs work here, too. If only there was something more expensive than out there. Of course, life in prisons and penitentiarys is very difficult to control at all, with this kind of transfer. The whole past term, and even the headlines of certain daily newspapers, new prisons are being built, but from that, it was just a dead letter on paper, promises, we'll see if it's really meant to be done in this term, we'll see it now in this budget. However, as there is every proposed law and any proposed amendment that should be seen from the point of view from the point of view of how it contributes to strengthening the institutions of transparency because that is how everyone sees us, Europe looks at us, but above all it is important that for the trust we show to our own citizens, this is precisely because such an intransparentity is allowed that the most qualitative, or professional people with certain qualifications can only come and be the leaders of this prison, therefore a very sensitive system, such changes that then enable non-transparent appointments. For a year, the leaders were on duty with a V.D. mark, so they were just officers of duty. However, what causes suspicion in the transparency of decision-making remains the fact that in such a system there is no place for a master, for a master’s degree of penological science. These are very rare occupations and very rare specializations, so I'm surprised that there's no place for such people to compete for leading places and that's free seats in the prison system. Here's an example when such a person competes at the governor's post in the penitentiary, he gets another person's place, but it's still said that this person is also good, but maybe he's better. Okay. When this person appears alone, a magistrate or a master of penological science as one of the leading places in the penitentiary, then a lower rank in the penitentiary system is cancelled without words and letters. Smart enough. And let me say one more thing about these last changes. So when we first introduced a judge for the first time in 2001 by passing the Penal Code, we allowed the judicialization of the prison system, which means that the first time the judge performed in the prison system as a judicial independent authority to control the administrative authority, what has happened lately? Is there any need to control this fateful power now? So in general we have to talk about the conditions why it's possible for such things to happen. Then it was perfectly normal to introduce a judge who would control the administration and the administrative authority. And now we've led to such a change, and here's the power, the government is forced to react by amending the law to control the judge. But why is that happening? We have to ask ourselves this question. What kind of climate are we setting? If there is no place for a master of science without a word, without a letter in the pen system, for example now when we talk about this, and without words and without a letter such an ad is cancelled, then it is normal that these things will happen, because that is the message we are sending. And no change will stop it, because one change we want to like and we want to figure and another we do, and that's not good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1036	I thank Mrs. Representatives. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic called.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1037	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, an esteemed colleague would be corrected by one truly incorrect, even by a number of criminal allegations, which she said, therefore, that a hundred prisoners had escaped in the last two years. Literally a hundred prisoners, then, from prison. That's an incorrect quote. You can check it out. So the prison system with the prisoner category has not escaped a hundred prisoners in the last two years. And I don't think that this is the way to be dramatic by talking or discussing this topic, although the system itself is burdened with a whole series of problems, but in this way we're sending a distorted picture to the public. Just like the distorted picture that during a time period of two years of one ministry, the situation was so great that they even prescribed laws and went to prison to see what a great, clear and good prison system was like in Croatia. And then over the course of just one year, it would be such a catastrophic situation as the colleague shows.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1038	I thank Mr. Representative. We have the correction of an incorrect...... I'm sorry, it's the Rules of Procedure's injury. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mrs. Ingrid...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1039	Dear Mr. Vice President! My colleague is here, I'm sorry, but I have to warn you, you've hurt Rule 209 of the Rules of Procedure. You only gave your opinion. And I was talking about objective indicators, which warns the attorney general's report. So be sure to check that information. And we have a report from the Warsaw office that assessed during that government prison system. But let's let it go. Here's your data from the attorney general's office. Take a look at the report for last year and last year, and add up those escapees. After all, public television reported it. But now I'm not referring to the media, but to a report by the attorney general who was unanimously accepted here.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1040	Thank you very much. Here we meet again with the problem of correcting the incorrect allegations and the Rules of Procedure. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1041	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. So I'm going to quote the same article as that 209. I wasn't correcting her opinion. I was correcting the facts she made, which are not true. Even with a number. A hundred in the last two years. I don't want to check, I have data from the Justice Department or relevant data from no newspapers, media, television, any radio shows. So the colleague hurt not for the first time the Rules of Procedure, I wasn't correcting her opinion, but indeed an incorrect assumption, you can check the record, a stenogram. You said literally a hundred in the last two years. That's not an opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1042	Okay. Here, however, I will not be the one to resolve the question otherwise related to the correction of the incorrect quote and the connection between the correction of the opinion and not the incorrect assumption. I don't think in any case it was a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so we'll head for the next club of MPs. Please. It's a HDZ rep club. The proposal for this law on behalf of the club will be discussed by Mr. Representative Damir Sesvečan.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1043	Mr. Vice President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I will say that the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the Prison Penalty Act for the reason that the application of the provisions proposed to be amended and complemented by this law and although it is only one article of this law that is actually about to be amended, it is also a significant reflection of the victims of the crime committed, on their families and also on the wider social community. In fact, this law also regulates a very important issue regarding the conduct of a judge in the process of approving the suspension of the prisoner's sentence to a prisoner. In particular, the Law on the execution of a prison sentence in Article 155(2) provides that the Court of Justice shall suspend the maintenance of the sentence i.e. the temporary release of prisoners from prison may only be granted if the prisoner is suffering from severe acute illness or is significantly worsened by the existing chronic disease and there is no condition for treatment in prison, due to a fatal case, serious illness or the obligation of a member of the prisoner's family to become the sole supporter of a minor child, parent, adoptive, adoptive, etc. to perform or complete unsustainable seasonal work or work caused by an elemental accident and in the event of a war situation. Therefore, this interruption, as I have quoted and the provision of Article 155 of the Law, can last from 30 to 90 days in 12 months and for the sake of treatment for a maximum period of 12 months. And in that time, the execution of a prison sentence does not run. According to the current provision of Article 156 of the Law, it was not possible to lodge an appeal against a judge on the suspension of the detention of the prisoner. Such a legal solution has not proved to be good, so these amendments and amendments to the laws are proposed to introduce the right of appeal to the judge's decision to execute. According to the proposal, the appeal could, within three days of receiving the solution, be submitted by the State's attorney-General to the place of detention of the prisoners as well as the prisoner. Therefore, despite the fact that the law is quite precise and clearly defined reasons when it can be decided on a possible suspension of the detention of prisoners, the proposed provision on the law of appeal to the judge of enforcement will further prevent and reduce possible irregularities and illegalities because the appeal will be decided by the judicial council, so the authority responsible for the decision in the second instance in the procedure of enforcement and within three days provided for. Finally, I would like to stress that, despite Article 42(1) of the law under the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice, it provides that it protects the rights of the prisoner, oversees legality in the procedure of maintaining the sentence of imprisonment and ensures the equality and equality of the prisoners before the law when making a decision on the suspension of the sentence of the judge should take greater account of the reactions and feelings of the victims of the offence committed as well as of the interested public. For these reasons, the Croatian Democratic Community club will, as I said, support the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the Penal Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1044	Thank you. On behalf of the motioner, Ms. Minister Ana Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1045	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, let's get rid of some dilemmas and get around the escapees. Certainly, the serious problem of the prison system in Croatia today is overcrowding. It is true that back in 2003, both 2002 and 1998, the situation in prisons was better in view of the number of prisoners, i.e. the problem of overcrowding was less pronounced. That is why this Croatian Parliament voted last year in a budget in which the funds for investment in buildings and the prison system have been doubled. They're not enough but they've been significantly increased just to bridge this problem. And next week the media will be informed and we will all be witnessing the opening of a new wing of a building in Clay that will provide 100 new places in that prison. What's true and you should know that when you say someone escaped from prison, that means they escaped from a closed prison type. There hasn't been a single escape from prison in the past two years. There were distances, and that's what Mrs. Advocacy would probably know. There have been such distances, it means from a semi-open type or using the convenience of going on weekends, etc. I will not argue but incredibly, almost impossible that in a year and a half or in a quoted period from 2002 to 2003 or how many prisoners from using convenience have returned. So, if it was an escape date, then it couldn't have been like that, but it could have been like today that no one escaped from a closed guy like it hasn't been in the last two years. One more thing. The prison for the execution of a prison sentence is complete, last year there were changes before this House. It is fully in line with all international conventions and also with the acquis of the European Union because it has been evaluated by the European Commission. And there's something else that's doing the truth. Three injuries have been identified before the European Court of Human Rights in the past ten years. For these three injuries over the past ten years, 35,000 euros in damages have been paid. And one more thing. It is true that last year, here in front of this House, the law on the execution of a prison sentence was amended and that one prisoner's right was reduced and that the prisoner's right to uncontrollable phone calls, so because of cases of harassment of a victim of a criminal offence, it was mainly related in cases of pedophilia or violent conduct that the prisoner had to report the numbers he wanted to call in order not to call the victim of the crime. And one more thing of this same amendment to the law was found for the first time that prison managers are chosen by the basis of a public tender, so a tender is being opened for all citizens to apply and according to their qualifications is then chosen. So, one democratic achievement and compliance with European Union standards. Prison directors are no longer appointed as they were until then but are chosen by the basis of a public tender. Here, but I beg you, it's all a story about prisons. The problem with prisons is a serious problem, above all, because of overcrowding. These amendments to the law certainly go towards the protection of victims and families of victims of criminal offences. It is omitted to establish availability and must be established because there are no infallible judges and they need second-degree control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1046	I would like to thank Mrs. Secretary. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. First of all, Madam Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1047	It's incorrect that you've hardened and wanted to reduce the number of fugitives. I will not quote the Ombudsman but I will quote what you yourself have submitted to the Croatian Assembly of the Class: 021-12/07-09/26, Urbro: 650602 which you submitted to the Croatian Assembly on 29 August 2007 Report on the state of the work of the penitentiary and prisons and educational institutions for 2006. So, we're about to win for 2007. Madam Minister, on page 33 of that report you signed yourself and told us: "In 2006, a significant number was recorded from closed prison penitentiary and detention." During 2006, a total of 76 prisoners escaped from the penitentiary. You also wrote that a significant increase in the number of suicides carried out, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1048	Thank you very much. The second is the correction of the incorrect allegations Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1049	Your Honor, Mr Vice President, Madam Secretary may have made an accidental claim that could have far-reaching consequences, so here's what I want to correct. This is about the rank of that statement that money is not property, so many citizens later began to believe that they are poor or that they have no property. That's how we heard here that moving away from half-open objects is not considered an escape. Well then, in order not to accidentally come to those who serve a sentence in such criminal and correctional institutions in the temptation to go home extraordinaryly because that distance would not be considered an escape I pray that this is where they are corrected so that they don't have to be hunted for the next month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1050	I thank Mr. Representative. We will continue with the next Club of Representatives on the proposal of this law. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr Damir Cain reported.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1051	Dear Mr. Vice President, here's what we've been commenting on along the way. I really don't see any problem if it's overcrowding in prisons. So if you're doing better, if you've got more people in prison, then clearly you've got a problem with that overcrowding. So overcrowding can be a confirmation of the ministry's better work, better work by the MUP, better political will, I don't know, better work by the judiciary. So, let's just let the joke aside now. Clearly, prison conditions need to be improved, but I'm saying overcrowding may not always be a problem. As far as this law is concerned, I don't think anyone will be against it. Understandably, it is correct in Croatia that the prisoner has the right to appeal for the judge's decision to execute, as well as the state's attorney. Although Mrs. Anticevic had correctly noticed earlier the judge of execution was appointed to control the administration, and now here we have an institution to control the judge himself. But I would take this opportunity to point out another civilization need, which is when a suspect is brought to justice. You remember, I don't know, when, say, individuals were brought in or brought in by an investigative judge in handcuffs, not to mention in chains. I don't think there's any need for that in 99% of the time. I know it's an intrusion to express myself to individuals for the purpose of breaking above all their will in order for an individual to sing like this, but in no way do we question the entire spectrum of human rights by bringing suspects into investigation. I don't think we have the right to do that. Let's think of Mr. Pavic's case. Man runs the most influential media in Croatia. You're sugar. And we humiliate him, handcuff him. We're doing shows. And then you're a man really asking why all this? So where could a Pavic have, say, escaped? In the end, that man was deprived of any doubt. The same thing is, let's let the verdicts end with one Stokic, a Rabbit, with Dr. Zac. Simic, Norc, and Mr. Glavas, who was a little wiser than the others, suddenly walked with a stick, or I don't know how to call it crutches. I think that in certain cases we should stop with that practice. I know the people enjoy it. I know that many people want to see these people on their knees, humiliated, embarrassed, but it also doesn't make much sense to me, because I've now thought of four, five, let's say, individuals in public life, but these measures are mostly applied to ordinary citizens. Why such a measure of cuffing? Why does this measure simply make no sense in such an investigation call it a procedure? And because, as a rule, it happens that the State's Attorney's Office either gives up any further persecution or the court rejects such indictments. In one word, we should give freedom to the judicial officers. The guards, I suppose, are that according to the discretionary decision, they judge which of these people, for example, when we have spoken before, will flee, or who will cooperate correctly with the judicial authorities. Well, nobody's gonna tell me here that Mr. Pavic was a threat to prison guards. I don't know, Dr. Simic, Norac and so on. I don't think that's good. You can't do that. That doesn't make sense. It's kind of insulting. It almost humiliates common sense. And in the end, when you release a man of any doubt, it becomes, I don't know, or it turns into a violation of the elemental dignity of one such person. It's clear that someone who's a drug dealer, clearly someone who threatens someone to do something, will risk their lives, and so on, in handcuffs, but I don't think there's any need to treat any farmer, doctor, general, minister or anything like that. It's clear before the law we're all the same. I'm not asking for any privilege for people from that political, economic, military, I don't know what kind of elite. However, this status may sometimes make it difficult for these people to do so, but before giving judgment, I ask that everyone's personality, everyone's dignity, one word of everyone's name and last name be respected. So the law in this part where he talks to me is logical, but this handcuffing I think should be selective. The other problem is maybe, uh, and even that's what I'm gonna say, yeah. The M.O.P.'s procedure. When they have a more prominent name, then what do they do? They're just doing shows in front of the public. It's the cameras. They play hero against crime and then report it to them. The accused proposals often simply fall into the water. It's clear that each of us here is asking them to do their job, but they're also not turning into actors of some action films. Does now mean some community civilized I think it should be, that it will determine how it treats the weakest, and those weakest are certainly the suspects accused etc. etc. No matter what social status these people appear in. It's clear that once again I'm going to say the same criteria should be for everyone and for the MPs, even for the media. For example, when the media rightly calls us for the selection and suggestion of Glavas in the Committee on Human Rights but also look at these mafia ads in our newspaper across the A3 format page. Vinko Rodic and Binguli's last greeting, and then the Lovro Mafia, Victor, etc. is still signed. etc. It's just that a man doesn't believe where it's going. This double criterion is a characteristic of unfortunately Croatian politics as well as Croatian journalism. Another time our Board of Elections and Appointment has been called out for the proposal of Mr. Glavas, but what will we say then with such obituaries through the back pages of almost all Croatian newspapers. Clearly, people have relatives all over the country. It's not so much a problem in relatives, it's their country-wide business, and now somebody's going to tell me, and the parishioners are sending them out of this world. But everyone's forgiven. Politics is not forgiven, so we should also consider the details that were discussed and written yesterday in public today. But I think even such a final greeting is not something that can represent the independence of Croatian journalism.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1052	Thank you very much. We've got a correction to the incorrect quote, dr. Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1053	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleague Cain incorrectly stated that we have an institution that controls the judge of execution. With this proposal, we have the possibility of investing an appeal for a solution to the suspension of the sentence which will end as it ends. So, of course we don't have any institution, but we have the possibility of a complaint. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1054	Thank you, counsel. We have a further correction to the incorrect allegations of the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1055	Dear President, esteemed colleague Cain argued that these large ads are a feature of Croatian journalism throughout the page. That's right. Look at your phonogram. It can be a feature of publishing, and I would really protect journalists and their profession because of such statements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1056	Thank you very much. We're out. Let's move on with the clubs. The Croatian Peasant Party Club is a respected representative, Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1057	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs, Madam Minister. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party will support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code by proposing to the Ministry, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to consider our proposal which is also a proposal for the Association for the Aid and Rights of the Families of Crime Victims from Petrinja to enable this law, i.e. to introduce a prison system obligation to inform local MUP and families damaged about the release of convicts on weekends, parole or so on to act preventively against relapse. In fact, it is quite clear that these amendments to the law allow for an appeal that can be filed except for the prisoners and the State's Attorney's Office, which we certainly consider to be good. But it seems to us that we also need to create instruments that the victims' family and victims themselves have the opportunity and knowledge when a potential person or prisoner gets out of prison that other than emotional reactions can cause different problems, and we are witnessing that there really is a relapse. In fact, not only in today’s day but also in recent years, the increase in the most serious crimes that leave society underprotection is recorded. Unfortunately, neither these most severe crimes that are happening have obviously led to the system of protection of victims and society as a whole, and therefore an adequate institutional framework should be created that would provide, by appropriate and just reaction, those objectives. In addition to this, I would like to highlight a few examples that I think you all are still well remembered for, which occurred due to a failure within the system itself, for example, a failure to monitor the convicts of Srdjan Mladjan, a so-called Sisak monster who has just committed new murders for vacation. Also due to insufficient legal regulation, the system has enabled a relapse of the murder in Rijeka, and not so long ago multiple murders in Petrinja if you remember the Kihalic case, a difficult murder in Zagreb case Kršulj. Therefore, of course, we appeal to make greater efforts to make the efficiency of the prison system much clearer and better so that it does not depend solely on the trust of the convicts, so I can mention the example of the escape case of the convict Bizic from the prison in Lepoglav who manages to escape when he decides to abuse trust. All these examples certainly contribute to improving the above-mentioned legislation, but also to protecting victims and their families themselves. Namely, Srdjan Mladjan is a Sisak monster, a double murderer in Sisak and Petrinja, bank robber and burglar, then a cop killer at the service, then a bank robber in Zagreb again, a kidnapper of the entire family almost escaped the most severe conviction and punishment for being a minor. If we follow his genealogy, then we see that in his earliest youth, he began first of all with heavy thefts, then with a little more severe criminal acts, and in 1998 he exploded at the age of 17 when he killed 16-year-old Elizabeth Šubic in Petrinja. During the investigation and the indictment of the participants in this painful business, he was appalled by his statement. He said that Elizabeth Shubic, who was 16 years old, had not come across, had been killed by someone else. So that was 98. No less surprised than his stance on a series of crimes committed in Petrinja and Sisak, two random murders, one serious threat to the bank's murder, he said he did not feel guilty. Clearly, such a man was no place in an ordinary prison where he was hiding his miracles and emotions and earned 21 prizes in the city. He then repeated a black series of murders when he also got an exit in the Posjevnica penitentiary, and after that exit he did not return but first used the approved exit to get a gun, rent an apartment in Zagreb and rob Sisak banka in Zvonimir Street in Zagreb. On the night he realized the police were onto him, he killed with three bullets from police officer Vranjkovic, holding one family hostage to surrender spectacularly to cameras and numerous journalists later. Of course there are similar cases like the case of a retired police officer from Petrinja Vlasimir Kihalic who heard a voice in his head, who said he needed to discuss disagreements with his wife. Then he told him that he had shot the wrong person, that he had to kill her friends, so he did the same thing, and as a result we have not only three dead women in Petrinja but six children who were left without their mothers. Or the case of Relja of Rijeka who, when he was 19, killed a 14-year-old neighbor. Because of that murder, he was sentenced to 14 years in prison, psychiatric surveillance. During four years of abstinence and model rule, doctors unfortunately misjudged him and let him go on a weekend off. Just two days of freedom, a few beers and a little glue woke up in it an old instinct, and at an unfortunate moment a 12-year-old girl came along, her father found her strangled and raped in a nearby forest along the railway line. We can also mention the case of Robert Kolar who was released for good behavior at home on Easter, and it immediately seems to have been used for double rape. Surely this data is not only a feature of Croatian society, that obviously everyone in other countries has monsters in the neighborhood, but it is certain that the system must be effective and must protect not only individuals but the entire social community. For this reason we certainly support the adoption of this law with the appeal of Madam Minister, to respect the proposal of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and the Association for the Assistance and Rights of the Families of Crime Victims and to introduce a mandatory notice to be sent to the victims and their families when the perpetrator comes out of prison early. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1058	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1059	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Honorable ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. When Mr. Cain spoke of these truly cases that excited the Croatian public this way, then I must really say that in my personal opinion, and in my opinion, because I come from medicine, that someone who has not compromised the integrity of life to someone that really doesn't make sense to cuff them and present it to the entire Croatian public through all possible media, headlines in the newspaper and breaking news on television. That's why we've seen different cases for which there's no excuse either, which are that some drug dealers were brought in without handcuffs. These are drastic examples that actually say that someone in this first case needed a play, a play in the style of bread and games, this time it was the second one, games. In the media, too, and depending on the information given by the investigating authorities, the initials used to be used, and they became selective in the newer time, and then someone's full name and last name was published in the first place, and someone's two or three or five days until the paper actually broke their full name and last name, things were held in the form of the initials of the perpetrators of crimes, or suspects. When Mrs. Minister spoke of a lack of place in our penitentiary, in penitentiary, or prison facilities, then I know that there was a speech some year ago that in Croatian prisons there were 1,500 places missing and that it was really crowded there, then it was linked to certain conditions of prison, bad, etc. It was also said that for the past year ten times the funds for prison institutions, enlargement, adaptation and the rest were approved, rather than before. As far as I know, it was said in both the press and the Ministry's post that it was intended to build and build new prison facilities. If I have to say, I think there was a speech about Sibenik and Drnish. I'm glad the Justice Department has expanded your words with 100 places in the Glina Penitentiary, but here's one example from saying from my constituency, where suspects or detainees and prisoners go to prison in Pozeg from the entire Brod-Posavina County, although there is a county court in Slavonski Brod, there's an investigative department, there's a municipal court, a commercial court, there's a county state's attorney, a city state's attorney, and everyone else. Here when we talk about prison, then I'm not talking about what ordinary perceptions of citizens, prison as some taboo topic, but I'm talking about prison as well as the economic unit, and when I talk about the economic unit, then it's certainly very closely connected with both the county and the constituency I come from. Therefore, I would ask the Minister to tell me if there is still an intention to build and therefore new prison facilities and where is it meant to build in the Republic of Croatia? And is there any possibility that this, I say now is no longer a prison, but an economic unit is installed, built in the County of the Ship-Posavina? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1060	Thank you very much for your esteemed representative. Madam Minister, do you need to? No, I don't. In the end. Thank you very much. We're done discussing clubs. We're moving on to an individual debate. First of all, the honourable representative, Zvonimir Puljic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1061	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister. The proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Penalty of Penalty makes one seemingly minor correction in the decision-making process on the suspension of detention. This correction should prevent unwanted situations that may irritate the public from taking place, endangering the victim of the crime committed, members of the victim's family and the wider social community, although such situations have arisen after a perfectly legitimate procedure and decision to interrupt. The Institute of Discontinuation provides for purely human and justifiable reasons which should not be questioned, but the procedure of application and decision-making should be specified and examined in such a way as to prevent shortcomings and wrong decisions and possible abuses, or at least to reduce them to the least possible measure. Amendments to the law since 13 July 2007 were going in the same direction, but they were obviously insufficient. Introducing two-stage decision-making on application for termination of penalties, i.e. The possibility of appeal for the decision of the judge of enforcement which is an essential part of the proposed amendment introduces in the decision-making procedure when two other factors have been lodged, i.e. The state's attorney's office towards the place of execution and the Court's decision on the appeal has certainly been increased by the correctness of the decision without being delayed for too long, and this has become pointless because the deadlines for the appeal and the decision of the Court of Justice are three days. It is not insignificant or amending that a judge who makes a first-degree decision instead of the previous opinion of the penitentiary under this legislative proposal must obtain a report on the course of the sentence, which certainly makes its decision more justified and serious. So to conclude, I will vote in favour of this bill because I think it improves the overall judicial, or prison system and enforcement system.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1062	Thank you very much. The word was further reported by distinguished representative Vladimir Ivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1063	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor. In view of the fact that it is already very much said about this Law, I would like to point out another important good point that is in this small one, we would say to the letters small, but the meaning is quite large in terms of actions and what has been happening in practice recently as a disturbance in that particular part of the maintenance of punishment, which is that, apart from introducing two-stageism and thus allowing constitutional law and fundamental rights to the prisoner, the victim is protected, but what is more important is that in the second degree, the Council is prevented from misjudged by a misjudgement assessment. So, given that in the second degree we have the opportunity to really through the Council which decides on it, all the actors who can point out those who have the right to appeal can make their arguments, and in the Judicial Council, then this discretionary assessment comes down to a decision by a number of them, thus protecting us from the future wrong decision, i.e. the probability of a wrong decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1064	Thank you very much. In addition, the honourable representative Ivo Grbic came forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1065	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, Ms. Minister. In the current law on the execution of a prison sentence on the one hand, it is tax-sufficient and I would say the very strict reasons for the suspension of the sentence of imprisonment, while on the other hand the procedure itself is left to the jurisdiction of the judge of enforcement, who brings a solution to the suspension without the possibility of appeal. It is the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the execution of a prison sentence that corrects this I would say an anomaly and gives the possibility of double-staged in deciding on a request from the prisoners for termination of a sentence which protects not only the prisoner, but also the victim of the crime committed and the family of the victims, as well as the wider social community. In the second stage of the appeal, the Court of Justice shall decide in whose jurisdiction the decision in the second degree is in the process of executing the prison sentence. For this reason, I support the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the execution of prison sentences after a brief procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1066	Thank you very much. I would just like to inform you that Article 207(2) is in line with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure have expired time to apply for a 10-minute debate on this agenda point. And the final application for the debate is the esteemed representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1067	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Madam Minister with her associate, colleague and colleague. Well, I'd like to point out in the opening, of course, like my predecessors, that this regulation, law, amendments and additions should absolutely be supported and they are fully related to the criminal legal institute of imprisonment. More specifically in the procedure and manner of approval, of course, when all legal assumptions are met. The legal papers or newspapers that are entered into the criminal justice system are indeed based on the principles of protection and of victims and families who suffer the criminal offence committed, but also on the principle of justice and the purpose of giving prison sentences, especially for the most severe forms of criminal offences that we recognize and as the principle of protection of accepted values of the social community, society as a whole. social rules. The amendments and additions to this regulation themselves do not redefine the terms of the closure of the prison sentence. It remains, therefore, under its legal definition, the temporary release of prisoners from the penitentiary or prison period during which the sentence of imprisonment does not run. And the reasons.../The speaker is off, so it's back on./... What hasn't been involved since the beginning? Guys. [[Intruder: No.]] Is there any need to repeat it, or am I going to pick up where I left off? ... Thank you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you, colleagues. Therefore, the reasons for granting the suspension remain the same and are reduced to four basics in short lines. Therefore, the reasons for the medical nature or severe and acute illnesses with the inability to receive adequate treatment as part of the health care of the prison system, death, serious illness, the completion and completion of unsustainable work, especially caused by elemental accidents. And, of course, cases of early or immediate threat to independence and unity of the Republic of Croatia. It should certainly be pointed out that so far the legal solutions have prescribed that the decision to terminate is brought by the judge of enforcement. And of course, and we had this opportunity to actually hear and so far, in previous discussions, but there was no possibility of filing an appeal for a solution that had been shown in practice as an insufficient quality solution and a missing solution. The decisions of the executing judge therefore could not, in a procedural sense, in the appeal procedure, succumb to control of neither legality nor justification. It is therefore absolutely necessary to support the proposed solution, which enables appeal not only to the prisoner but also to the competent state attorney's office. It is prescribed, of course, and a three-day period and it is very important to stress that the complaint has a suspended character. It retains the execution of the solution and decides on it by the Judicial Council, which means the Extra-Declusion Council, the Court's Extra-Declaration Council. And there is a fixed period of three days, therefore, very short deadlines are set, which implies that there is no possibility of a delay or a long period of time from a first-degree decision to a final or legal decision. Of course, a solution that should also be accepted absolutely. The procedure itself should also support a provision which therefore gives a greater role and competence to the State's attorneyship which must be informed of the first-degree solution. Only a solution must be delivered within the legal time limit, which in any event strengthens his procedural position as an authorisation to file a complaint. In accordance with all of the above, this law should, of course, be adopted in the present form. And finally let me, because after these discussions, I find it unusually important to read the provision of Article 2. The law on the execution of a prison sentence that gives us an answer to the question of what is the real purpose of executing a prison sentence. Therefore, the main purpose of the execution of a prison sentence is the humane conduct and respect of the dignity of a person who is in the maintenance of a prison sentence, his training for life on the loose in accordance with the law and of course social rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1068	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Anna Lovrin, final. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1069	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Well, first of all, I want to thank everyone who actively participated in the debate on this extremely important topic. Thank you for that. I call on you to support this law because it is primarily proposed to protect victims, their families and wider social communities. What I am still obliged to say at the end, in order to clarify, of course, is that further investment is planned in accommodation and facilities in prisons. In the budget, the ministry proposed a budget for 2008 to double the amount compared to last year. So then here, according to the possibility of a million kuna budget in 2006, we are now at over 20 million kuna. There is, of course, further preparation for the construction of a prison in Sibenik, to extend the capacity of another building in Glina with 240 seats, with the addition of Zagreb prisons in Remetinac. And certainly for setting up a prison hospital that's also in bad shape. As for bringing in detainees and I really agree that that's a couple of times inappropriate. However, this is governed by a sublegal act. And I would agree that, namely, there's a strict provision if, if it's being prevented, if it's being brought in for a crime for which a stricter sentence of prison has been prevented for over five years, then the handcuffs are automatically placed. Thus, it should certainly be estimated that the threat and danger and the person himself who is being brought in and how prone to violence are. Here, once again, I thank you for the debate and I ask you to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1070	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1071	I'm sorry, Mr. President, if I may have a sentence because it's very important.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1072	Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1073	Extraordinary and to refer to the motion from the debate. Also, after leaving prison or letting go of a temporary or interruption, local police should be informed. And family, local police are being notified for safety. And I think it's possible to intervene with a sublegal act to inform both victims and families of the victims. And I also forgot to say that we accept the amendment of the Legislative Committee for a better nomotechnical arrangement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1074	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Penal Code. It was an emergency procedure. P.Z. No. Six. The debate is closed. The amendment submitted by the Legislative Committee was accepted by the Proposer. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that, unanimously with 120 votes, this law has been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1076	We're moving to agenda nine. 9. (a) Report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2007, (b)A report on audits carried out for 2006, (c)A report on audits carried out for 2006, special part – Official secret From the chairman of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, I was informed which committee proposes to remove the confidentiality mark from the specific part of the business audit report for 2006. Does the board president want to explain, or are we going to put this proposal to a vote? Thank you. The quorum? Thank you. We have a quorum. The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security proposes to remove the confidentiality mark from a specific section of the 2006 Business Audit Report. Who's in favour of the committee's proposal? Thank you very much. Does anyone mind? There isn't. Restraint? There isn't. I find that the proposal has been accepted. So we moved to point 9 of the report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2007, the audits carried out for 2006 and the audits carried out in particular. We've downloaded the official secret. In accordance with Article 11. The State Audit Act was submitted by the State Audit Office to those reports. The material and CD for points A) and B) you received in boxes, and the material for point C) you received in person. It is hereby established that the proposal has been accepted. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain the reports? Yeah. Mrs. Šima Krasic is the chief state auditor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1077	Thank you. Mr. President, esteemed ladies and gentlemen. Here's the 13th time we show up in front of this High House, so 13th report. The State Audit Office is obliged to submit a report on its work each year, a report on audits carried out by the end of the year for the previous year. Today we are discussing a report on work for 2007, a report on audits carried out for 2006. An annual programme and a work plan shall be adopted to carry out the office’s tasks. The following criteria, legal obligation for audits, unfavourable opinions on financial reports and business were applied for the selection of audit entities for 2007 for the selection of audit entities, the material significance of the audit entities, the number of applications submitted, applications, requests for audits by individual entities, and the data collected from other institutions and public media. According to the provisions of the law, the audit of the state budget, the funds or the state-level institute and the budget of the local units shall be carried out annually. All other audits shall be carried out in accordance with the annual work programme of the office to be carried out each year. The audits are conducted according to international standards... Regardless of the type of revision the objectives of the audit were to verify the truthfulness and credibility of the financial reports, to verify the achievement of the revenue, the receipt and execution of the expenditure... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] as well as the dedicated spending of funds as determined by the state budget, the budgets of local units and financial plans and other regulations, the verification of financial and other transactions in terms of the legal use of funds, the verification of the application of legal and other regulations relating to the organisation, financial and accounting of operations, and the audit procedures to cover the business of entities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The audit procedures shall cover the financial statements of the entities to determine whether the financial statements show the true and objective financial position and the results of the financial activity and whether the operations are carried out in accordance with the regulations. The audit shall cover the following areas: the work cycle and the internal structure of the entity with a focus on the organisation and performance of internal control activities, or internal audits, accounting operations and revenue and expenditure, with particular focus on the planning and spending process. The audit checks the efficiency, economics of public spending. Special attention is paid to the procurement and application of public procurement rules. The report on the work of the office for 2007 contains information on the implementation of the annual work programme, on the number of audits carried out. The main features of the budgetary system and the budgetary surveillance system and the audit procedures and methods are listed. The report gives a summary of the findings and recommendations of the audits carried out with a review of the opinions given. Data shall also be provided on the monitoring of the tasks performed and the recommendations given in previous audits. In addition to the data on the audits carried out in the report, data on the financial operations of the office, with a view to international cooperation and the implementation of the strategic plan for office development are also listed in the internal audit work carried out during the previous reporting period. During this reporting period from 1 October 2006 to 30 September 2007, the office carried out 795 audits of which 556 audits were financial reports and business reports and an audit of the budget and financial report was carried out for 237 local units. Two efficiency audits have been carried out, a judicial academy project and a centre for professional training and training of officials, and payment and distribution of income from tourist tax in tourist communities. A total of 556 entities were audited for the state budget and 32 budget users, 339 local units, 7 national parks, 9 student centres, 13 county road administrations, 21 other budget beneficiaries as regards nursing homes, some social institutions and so on. 53 companies owned by the state and local units, 7 airports, 10 non-profit organisations, 50 tourist communities, 11 port administrations and three projects. Out of that number of audits carried out, four audits were carried out in the framework of targeted projects under the prescribed procedures, handbook testing and guidelines for the work of the European Union’s State Auditors with the application of new IT tools. The same procedure has also been applied to the implementation of two performance audits. The total public funds of €135.9 billion have been audited. Of which 128.3 billion or 84% refers to the budget of the state and local budget. As part of the budget of the State budget, the revenues of the 100 state budget amount to HRK 107.7 billion. Or 84%. The revenues of the City of Zagreb 6 and a half billion kuna or 5% of total budgets while the revenues of all other local units amount to 14 billion kuna or 11% of the funds. In addition to budgetary appropriations, the audit procedures also cover other public funds worth 7.6 billion kuna. They relate to the revenue of audited public and municipal companies and non-profit organisations. In addition to tax revenues, the most significant... The state budget... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] are contributions, pension, health insurance and employment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In 2006, a contribution to health insurance was achieved with 15.4 billion kuna. Contribution for pension 16.9 and for the employment of 1.5 billion kuna. The expenditure of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance amounts to 18.4 billion kuna and the insufficient funds of two and a half billion kunas are compensated from other revenues of the budget. The expenditure of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute amounted to €25.5 billion and the insufficient funding of 8.2 billion was compensated from other budget revenues. For pension payments 24.8 billion kuna and 32.3% of the funds were allocated more than the contributions collected. The revenues of the city of Zagreb and other local units were achieved by 2.6 billion kuna more than in the previous year. The audits carried out shall be drawn up a report with findings and recommendations and an opinion on the business and financial reports of the audited entity. All reports have been submitted to legal representatives, councils and local unit assemblies in order to enable certain actions to be taken and to remove observed irregularities or to take certain measures. The report submitted by the statutory representative of the audited entity shall require that the State Audit Office, within 60 days, be informed of the actions taken and the measures taken so that some measures may be taken before the start of the next audit, as they used to start a new audit earlier. The Law on State Audit is laid down: the powers of the Offices which are in line with international standards, European Union guidelines and with the good practice of other European countries. The Office does not have the authority to take any criminal measures. This is done by other authorised institutions. However, here we should point out that in this time we have been working correctly with all institutions; the State Attorney's Office, the Ministry of Interior and the Croatian Privatisation Fund as well as other institutions in 203 cases last year. By carrying out the audit, the Office gave audit entities a total of 2 000 732 orders and recommendations, which is 12.9% lower than the previous year. The previous audit gave 3 thousand 136 warrants and recommendations, of which a thousand 962 or 62.6% were executed. And a request for their execution has been repeated for the unexecuted tasks. In addition to objective determination of the facts about the business of the entities and giving orders and recommendations to improve the business of the Office, it is the Office's task to inform the Croatian Parliament and the public or representative bodies of the units of the local about the way in which public funds are available. Data collected during the audit are official secret until reports are delivered to the Croatian Assembly and at local level to representative authorities when they become available to the public. After the debate in the Croatian Parliament, the reports are available to the public via the Office's website. The report on the audits carried out by this High House has 804 pages and presents a summary of the complete reports drawn up by authorised state auditors. Although our reports are made up somewhere on about 18,000 pages. The summary of the report on the audit carried out consists of 3 parts, opinions, general data, warrants and recommendations. In accordance with the audit standards and in accordance with normal practice, the institutions of the State Audit shall, on the basis of the facts established, express their views on the financial statements on the business of the audited entity. There are four types of opinions that differ. Unconditional where no significant irregularities have been identified. Where minor irregularities are identified which are not relevant for the understanding of financial reports or do not have a significant impact on the business of the audited entities. Unfavourable when it affects significant irregularities and abstentions when there is insufficient data and we do not have the opportunity to give an opinion at all. ... It happens in cases where there are no documentation, no accounting and so on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this case, we had no such opinion during this reporting period. During this reporting period, 91 or 16.4% of the audited entities received unconditional opinion. For 10 or 1.8, while all other institutions, i.e. audited entities or 455 or 81.8% received conditional opinions. The number of persons who are audited each year for whom an unconditional opinion has been expressed has been increased and the number of entities with unfavourable has been reduced. The impact of the revision is also visible through positive shifts in the management of business books, the preservation and use of public property, spending and more rational management of public funds. Part of the report describing the general data refers to the basic functions and indicators of the audited entities and in the findings and recommendations are listed in a reduced form of significant irregularities in their business and give orders and recommendations to the Office. After these framework data on Okay, about the number and kind of revisions now I'm going to something... indicate the irregularities that occurred during this reporting period. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The most common irregularities concern accounting operations, spending planning, procurement procedures, internal controls. Here I have to say that internal control systems are developing very quickly. Yes, they've been made for four years. All the regulations have been passed. The education is mostly still ongoing, and certain institutions are already operating under these regulations. So in the next period, we expect that these internal systems and internal control and internal audit will work more significantly, so there will probably be less irregularities and less... The most frequent irregularities in accounting business relate to the list of assets, liabilities and claims. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The rules aren't complete. There's no balance between bookkeeping and real state of affairs. Incorrect recording of individual incomes and expenditures, recording of expenditure at the time of payment instead of at the time of the commitment. It's already a law changed by a few years but still not all the subjects have applied it. We hope to do so in the next period. Certain formal errors, the keeping of auxiliary records, registrations on wrong accounts, and similar discussions with audit entities and corrections are still under way. Irregularity in the part of income and income, as well as expenditure and expenditure most often refers to unrealistic planning or execution of expenditure in accordance with the financial plan. I have to stress here that there are large claims with local self-government units. That's where we always give orders to make payment plans, etc. to improve. The more we deliver our data on these payments to the Ministry of Finance, which, in cases, uses these data, if any donations need to be made, so that these data are used. The Office has warned of insufficient control of the transferred or transferred funds to budgetary and other users, so we have already covered some budget users in this period after this transmission of the report. We've caught about a hundred schools, institutes, dormitories somewhere to see those transferred funds being used, etc. which we will report in the next period. Certain irregularities also relate to the implementation of public procurement procedures. Over 35 billion kunas of public funds, companies and public institutions owned by state and local units are estimated to have been spent in public procurement during the revised period. The audit covers funding for public procurement of €24.5 billion or 18% of total funds. These funds relate to the users of the state budget 9.6 billion, and 3.6 billion of them to drugs that we always say every year. Local units 6.2 billion, while the rest applies to all other entities. For ten years, public procurement procedures have not been carried out according to the prescribed rules, and in this respect a proper practice has been developed. There are still irregularities in this area whether there are failures in certain procedures or there are acquisitions without the application of the provisions of the law. It is important to stress that audits are being carried out to check the procurement procedures from planning to realization. In addition to the Public Procurement Act, provisions of the Law on Mandatory Relations apply, and certain issues are regulated by the Budget Act, or the Budgetary Act. The most frequent irregularities were seen in the adoption of a procurement plan that must be in line with the financial plan, in the setting-up and keeping of the prescribed procurement records and in the completed contracts, the appointment of procurement commissions, the sharing of equal purchase during the year in order to carry out the procurement under the regulation, and not under the law, limited enforcement, etc. The audit found that a significant part of the purchase was 1.7 billion kuna or 7.1% of the total assets implemented through the application of Article 6. Article 6 has granted an exemption when it can be obtained, in which situations it is directly supplied, etc. which... It was also found that 592.8 million kuna or 2.4% of funds were spent without public procurement procedures in all entities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At local levels for a smaller number of units, deleveraging irregularities have been identified because no borrowing consent has been obtained. A prescribed rate of borrowing has been exceeded, and in some cases a trade debt has been carried out which is not allowed under our rules. Some works are made, so they are paid off for a few years, etc. The number of irregularities and their frequency of occurrences in business and financial reports indicates the need for an even stronger establishment of an internal control system that has been introduced normically and all, and the office warns in each of its reports about the situation and the need to organise internal financial controls, and hence internal audits, the adoption of various procedures, manuals and other instructions provided here. Tomorrow we have a seminar together with internal auditors, so we're trying because we're a little older than them, we've been working for 14 years, and they've been working for 4, 5 years, and maybe we'll do more for the joint forces. Mr. President, esteemed MPs and MPs, in this brief presentation, I wanted to draw attention to the office, its powers, its tasks, the way in which the audit is carried out, and to the most frequent irregularities that occur in the audited entities. All the jobs described over the past year have been carried out by the office with 286 employees, of which 227 authorised state auditors. With the Internal Order, we have the right to employ 301 employees, but as auditors find themselves very difficult to find, we receive the trainees as a rule and in one three years to five they become excellent auditors and we continue to do so. I'll be briefing the office's programming tasks for next year. In accordance with the Law on State Audit, the Strategic Plan and the Work Programme, business and tasks are set in the next reporting period. First, regularly carry out audits, a financial report of operations in accordance with the legal provisions. Special activities focus on efficiency audits, public spending, on the implementation of measures and actions envisaged by the corruption action plan, which is in line with the 2006-2008 National Corruption Prevention Programme. We have our own plan in line with the government's plan and we are implementing that part of the anti-corruption activity. To conduct continuous education of state auditors at expert seminars in order to be as ready and professional as possible for the implementation of the most complex audits and to carry out their work by respecting the Code of Professional Ethics of State Auditors. We must pay special attention in this time of year to teamwork. They are auditing, working on teams, and since we have the possibility of hiring besides lawyers and economists and other professions, we are already trying to do this in some way to make it a more comprehensive audit depends on the subject of the audit. Continue to develop and establish cooperation with a number of state audit institutions in the context of European and international cooperation, and to cooperate with countries that have related audit systems. This not only improves the quality of the work of state audits but contributes to further development of international relations. Continue the ongoing process of modernising the information system and connecting it with other public sector information systems at national local levels. We're in a trial situation right now because we have our own system. We are trying to perform audits, first, one dozen revisions using new tools and those systems that are compatible with us will be much simpler for us to perform our audit because we can use a lot of data ourselves instead of looking for them as we have so far. In the context of the process of including the Republic of Croatia in European integration to implement international obligations and to seek to participate in joint projects that we continue to do. The independence and public work of the office must continue to be present in business by publishing on the office’s website to ensure that all reports are made available to the public. This meets one of the basic principles – the principle of public work of the office. Finally, I would point out that in mid-2007 a financing project funded by the European Commission of 2m euros through the CARDS programme was completed. The project has been assessed by the European Union as a success. It was conducted in cooperation with the UK State Audit and its 30-month implementation. Our auditors have been trained for all types of audits that have not been carried out so far, as well as audits of projects used by European funds and European banks. I thank you for your cooperation. I'm here to give you all your answers, questions, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1078	Thank you very much. Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1079	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Madam State Auditor. For the fifth time from this pay phone on behalf of the Croatian People's Party club, I would like to commend all praises to this report, that is, the entire State Audit Office. Not only because of the very report we have received but because of the really serious approach and this business, and every time I point out this report is not one of... part of the accuracy of the data on fiscal capacities and budgetary conditions, all the users of the budget in the Republic of Croatia and always the other authorities are angry at it, but I repeat that there is no State Audit Report that we in Parliament could not have available such a wide source of data on the budgets of our municipalities, cities and counties that can often benefit us in discussing and proposing legal projects. According to this report, 556 entities were reviewed in 2006. 91 of them, 16.5% got unconditional grade, so great. 455 or even 81.8% parole, 10 unfavourable and abstentioned opinions. The value of which is available, reviewed, supervised or controlled entities is 135 billion public funds. So a huge amount of money that exceeds the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for both last and probably this year. What does the State Audit show for us? Of the 128 billion budgets of all municipalities, cities, counties and states, 84% waste on the state budget, 5% on the City of Zagreb and 11% on all municipalities, cities and counties. This means that of one kuna of public giving citizens of the Republic of Croatia 84 lipa goes to the state, 11 lipa for all cities, all municipalities and all counties and 5 lipa in Zagreb for Zagreb. What is the unconditional opinion, or conditional opinion of the State Audit? Where the amount and significance of irregularities are not crossed by a permitted limit, and an unfavourable opinion is given or expressed when irregularities in financial reports and business are identified so significant that the conditional opinion would not be appropriate, such an opinion indicates that the financial statements are not accurate and that operations in a significant part have not been carried out in accordance with laws and other regulations. As a result, the Croatian People's Party Club proposed to the Assembly this year when adopting this two-point report. First, all those who have received an unfavourable opinion are found with an unfavourable opinion to be delivered to the State Attorney's Office and secondly, to the State's Attorney's Office within 6 months of the Parliament's report on the actions taken, and in order to inform about what it has taken on these findings. For years, it has been a practice for the State's Attorney's Office to submit a complete report and never had the Parliament had any feedback on the undertaking. For the first time last year, the Parliament adopted such conclusions and, if you remember after encouraging and reminding the State Attorney's Office, indeed, the Parliament's State Attorney's Office submitted a report on the actions taken for nine unfavourable opinions as many as there were in the last year, during the review and related to 2005. The report showed that both the State's Attorney's Office and the State's audit had come to the same knowledge, knowledge, or were found in the assessment of the situation resulting from the State's audit findings. We therefore propose the same treatment this time and simply because too much of the efforts of human resources and money have been spent on the work of the Office of State Audit and the auditors, and it would only end with the Assembly accepting their report. This feedback from the State Attorney's Office for those who have not received a passing assessment is extremely important and important because, in my opinion, we are giving Parliament and added importance to the state audit business itself, to the institution itself, and in some ways, we are showing how important it is that, at the initiative of the State Audit, this internal control is also from four years ago following the adoption of the necessary laws, and the reports show that, just by strengthening internal surveillance, the State audit is satisfied. However, such a proposal does not mean complete amnesty for those 455 conditional opinions, since there were obviously some things that were to be discussed either by the local (regional) authorities or by the administrative or supervisory bodies of the institutions of companies, institutions, funds, institutions and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to see why some authorities are repeated yearly in the category of conditional opinions. The data and conclusions of the users of the state budget indicate that the most frequent irregularities in the procurement plan are the rules laid down in the Regulation, which are worth up to 200 thousand, that, when selecting the highest price, certain entities did not choose the bidder who offered the lowest price. So obviously, we still have a problem with applying the Public Procurement Act. Some budget users do not keep the prescribed public procurement records or records are not complete. The costs of the purchase of medicines, orthopaedic aids and vaccines via the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance and the price of medicines and the way they are bought and the law and regulations that regulate this area, if you read the findings of this year's report, are almost identical to what it said last year. I cannot understand why we are repeated year by year that the State Review warns that the Croatian Health Insurance Institute is violating the Public Procurement Act when getting medicines, and on the other hand the answer comes to achieve a lower price of medicines. I suggested last year, if we really save health money, if that's how we get the same quality of medicines for less money, change the laws and agree that we don't have to listen to, read and warn that in the most sensitive system, which is a health system, regulations are not respected. Is the problem that the regulation is not in accordance with the law, the Law on the acquisition of medicines is not in line with the Public Procurement Act or the Public Procurement Act, so we need to change it again in order to agree? Or is the rule not in accordance with the law? Or is the conduct of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute not legal? So it's been a year for the government to propose a change of law with a reason to save a billion kuna. We haven't changed any of that area's regulations. Without applying the prescribed procurement procedures, purchases amounting to a total of 85 million kuna have been made. Not 8 million, 85 million kuna. How is it possible that the users of the state budget have an illegal public procurement value of 85 million kuna, and that no one, but indeed no one had any internal responsibility for it, let alone the public. The government probably considered this report, and I expected at least one sentence of penitent content to be in the government's position to be correct, to change people or laws. Unfortunately, there's no such thing. A conditional opinion was given to the state budget, customs administration, State Geodetic Administration, State Hydrometeorological Institute, Fund for Development and Employment, Croatian academic research network CARNet, Croatian Emigrant Queen, Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, Croatian State Archives, Lexicographic Institute "Miroslav Krleža", Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, Ministry of Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, Water Economy, Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Science, Tax Administration and the Central Office for State Property Management. Compare the list of conditional opinions this year, last year and before and find an intruder or throw him out. Information on the guarantees given by county, municipalities and cities in 2006 is also interesting. So in 2006, Krapina-Zagorska, Koprivnica-križevacka, Bjelovar-Bilogorska, Virovitičko-Poravska and Međimurje County are counties that have not received guarantees. Maybe they didn't ask, it doesn't matter. But there is only one county, only one Croatian region that had no guarantees at first, neither in progress, nor in the final state of any state guarantees, which is Međimurska. Not at first, not at the end, not at the end. There's a međimurje song singing "Mura, Mura, you're deep water." ... Now, Mr. Shakespeare, the drawer smells nice, but this time, it's gonna change that Međimurje folk song into "Drava, Drava, you're wide water." [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Go on. This is an attempt to interfere.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1080	Destabilization.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1081	Destabilization, yes, Mr. President. Furthermore, the fiscal capacities of the county and the City of Zagreb for 2006, I will not read it, it is a table 22 on page 71, only two comparisons. If we compare the region with the lowest fiscal capacity per capita, which is Brodsko-Posaviska and the richest is Zagreb, the ratio is 1 versus 4.2. Let's remove Zagreb as a metropolis, then it's 1 to 3.4. So much for whether Croatia is centralised in fiscal, tax or any other sense. It also encourages the fact at the very end that the State Audit finds as the number of orders and recommendations in the executive sense of year and year received and implemented by both entities, but still the figure of a thousand 174 out of the 2 thousand 732 that are given by me is too large. Where orders and recommendations have been given to repair the situation, and it repeats itself in the same subjects, we cannot justify ourselves by ignorance, we cannot justify ourselves with human resources, we can no longer justify ourselves by the fact that the situation from year to year is better. This is not enough, because according to this and this report it is visible that there is still too many users not only by their numbers, but by the amount of funds they have there, by the amount of money spent past the law and in public procurement, but also for other reasons too large, too large. This is the more the State Audit often, and I know it from my own experience and helps and advises during the supervision itself, and warns and prays and advises that mistakes are corrected in walking. More education and benefits probably than they are, than all these seminars that are being held because they are really based on it. I want to believe that this year the Parliament will accept our proposal for a conclusion. And I want to believe that after that, six, seven months from the state's attorney's office, we're going to get a report on all ten negative opinions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1082	Thank you. It's Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec's turn on behalf of the SDP club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1083	Mr. President, Chief State Auditor, Deputy Chief State Auditor, colleagues and colleagues! This is the 12th State Audit Report if we withdraw the reports we received on the revision, conversion and privatisation. And in every debate so far, a unanimous assessment has been expressed that the State Audit Office delivers more and more quality reports and conducts more and more quality surveillance. This is the result of continued work on the professional training of state auditors. Thus, in the middle of last year, the "finding" project CARDS was successfully completed in 2003, titled "Strengthening external control of the implementation of the budget. Our state office also achieves good cooperation through contacts and through membership in international professional associations. I'm taking this opportunity to commend, on behalf of the SDP Club, the working and professional team of the State Audit Office. The State Office's report on state money spending control and debates in Parliament should give insight to citizens, taxpayers about how their money is spent, and if it is spent irrationally and unintendedly, which are consequences for responsible persons. This is the first to be achieved in some ways, as the findings of state audits are partly informed by the public. But we don't know anything about the responsible and their possible processing, because this is actually the kind of responsibility at this level that we don't even know about. What's the statistics on the 2006 state audit findings? Here, just a few remarks. Still, for example, it is still negative because the majority of the audited entities do not receive unconditional opinion, which implies orderly business. Neither did the state budget get an unconditional opinion this year either. Of the 32 users of the state budget, 15 received such an opinion. Of the 339 revised financial reports, units of local and regional self-government received only 19. No national park of seven revised, only two student centres of nine, three county road administrations of 13 audited etc., etc. More careful reading of the state audit findings may raise us to doubt the reality of the budget deficit presented and the suspicion of corruption. Why do we suspect the reality of the deficit? I'll try to show it through two examples in which the state's audit indicates the following. That there are some expenditures that have been made above planned for which no funds have been provided, so the commitments have been transferred in the following year. Contracts containing provisions on the settlement of commitments in the coming years were also concluded. We remember our minister talking with great intensity about the same cases from 2003 and increasing the state budget, the deficit of the state budget in the same way, which was established in the same way as the state audit says it is now. The state budget, which our minister likes to say is a transparent state audit, states the following. There is no complete information on property, liabilities and sources of ownership. Financial reports were made on the principle of cash flow. This is what I was saying earlier, so the data on individual balance sheet accounts that should reflect the situation at the end of the year is incomplete or not shown. The status of the debt is inconsistencies. The difference between the two records, for example, It's worth as much as 28 billion kuna. The redistribution of the state budget on which we also from the club always had objections when the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget was passed, therefore, according to the provisions of the Government relating to the reduction of expenditure on financing accounts and the increase of expenditure, the state audit concludes that they are contrary to the Budget Law. And several examples of how incomes are realized or not realized. For concession fees for a larger number of concessionaires, no basis for the calculation of the concession has been established. Payments are messy, no measures are taken for more effective payment, late payments are not charged for tight interest. Or the next example. The IRS. Tax controls in certain large taxpayers have not been continued, the state audit found. So of the 206 registered large taxpayers, the planned supervision is to carry out over 70, and the supervision of only 59 is open. So, not finished. And it's interesting that at the six tax administrations, this surveillance isn't even planned for 2006. Why do we say that corruption can exist? Here's an example from the Ministry of Agriculture, several findings of state audit. The inspection supervision of the use of support was carried out only in 12% of cases instead of at least 15% of the amount of funds paid. So, by 3% lower, until support for rural development was monitored at all. It also finds that there is no record of the claim for reimbursement of unlawfully paid or obtained aid. Or the next example. To co-finance the purchase of milk only one dairy, one milkman was paid 4.5 million kuna more than the amount determined by the Croatian Government's decision. At the same time, it is not respected that interventions for the purchase of milk are shared depending on the share of milkers in purchased quantities. There is also no period for the performance of this obligation, nor is there a need for documentation to support this job. Or in co-financing of the development programme for the conservation of the acid cabbage, therefore, one of the rural development and restoration projects of the olive groves has also established the illegalities and irregularities that relate to the excesses of the established amount that can be a maximum of one million kuna. In both cases, a million and 500 thousand kuna were paid. And there is no contest in the project of the restoration of the olive grove. There was no control of the purpose, the purpose of spending these funds. ... Bravo. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And precisely the irregularities identified in this ministry, in fact, our minister has not submitted moral or political responsibility, but, by the will of today's and yesterday's Prime Minister, changed the portfolio where he will have more resources than he will have in this ministry. Non-compliance with the Public Procurement Act is in fact established in most audited entities. And that there's a lot of money going around in this segment is a piece of information that I'm going to illustrate in just a few examples. According to the records of the audited entities, 3 000 340 public procurement procedures were carried out which amounted to 3.1 billion kuna in that segment. The audit found irregularity in almost 14% of procedures. Public procurement expenditure for 32 audited users of the state budget amounted to 9.7 billion kuna or 11% of their total expenditures and expenditures. The audit report once again warns against the non-compliance of the Public Procurement Act with the supply of medicines, orthopaedic aids and vaccines, amounting to 3.6 billion kuna this time. Purchases without public procurement procedures have been made in value to these users of more than 85 million kuna. We can be associated with the situation in the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development where competitions were held "unofficially" instead of official public competitions, and then they could be carried out by the minister's driver. The State audit also carried out an efficiency review and an audit of the projects. We will indicate only the project review results from the ISPA programme where the next one was controlled, the next one was determined. The management and control system was not fully effective. There have been significant delays in implementation compared to planned deadlines. The measures suggested by the State Audit in this case may indicate that there are not enough employees with adequate knowledge and experience. It is also concluded that in 2006, the activities carried out are only activities in the design of the tender documentation and no contract on the purchase of goods, services and works is concluded. So it's no wonder that at the end of last year we actually got a blockage of funds, a blockage of funds from pre-accession funds. From these examples that I tried very briefly to present in this presentation on behalf of the club we would actually like to suggest a few conclusions on the occasion of this point. First, to accept the report on the work of the State Audit Office with 2007 and the report on audits carried out for 2006. Second, the State Audit Office reports shall be submitted to the competent authorities and institutions in order to establish possible criminal or criminal offences. Third, it is necessary for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to submit within 60 days to the Croatian Parliament a programme for the long-term removal of irregularities repeated by the audit and to submit within 60 days through the Office for the Management of State Property the current list of assets owned or used by the State and to report to the Assembly and complete the full list by the end of the year. And fourthly, to require the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia to submit a report to the Croatian Assembly within 90 days on the basis of a State Audit report on established criminal or criminal offences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1084	I thank Mrs. Zgrebec. HDZ club Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1085	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Madam State Auditor, the Honorable Deputy Chief State Auditor, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. This report by the State Audit Office points to the scope and complexity of all the activities that preceded their assembly but also to the exceptional clarity and simplicity of the presentation of the factually established situation. The confirmation of the exceptional scope of the audit carried out is made clear that it is from 1 October 2006 to 30 September 2007. The State Audit Office carried out 795 audits of which 556 audits of financial statements and budgets and financial reports were carried out for 237 local units. Two efficiency audits have also been carried out, public funds totalling €135.9 billion have been audited. Of which, 128.3 billion kuna or 94.4% refers to budgets. The State Audit Act lays down the powers of the State Office which are in line with international standards, guidelines of the European Union and with the good practice of other European countries under which the Office does not have the power to take any criminal measures, as they do so for the competent state institutions of the State's attorney and police. The report shows that extraordinary cooperation was achieved with those institutions and only during this reporting period did the State Audit Office cooperate on 66 cases with the State Attorney's Office, on 31 cases with the MUP and 106 cases with the Croatian Privatisation Fund. In accordance with the audit standards and in accordance with the usual practice of the state audit institution and on the basis of the facts established, the State Office shall express its opinion on the financial statements and business of the audited entity. In this reporting period, 91 or 16.4% of audited entities have expressed their unconditional opinion. For 10 or only 1.8%, an unfavourable opinion has been expressed and a conditional opinion has been expressed for as many as 455 or 81.8 subjects. The diversity of institutions expressed in these ten unfavourable opinions indicates that business irregularities are neither property nor parties. It encourages the fact that the number of subjects who have expressed unconditional opinion has been increased while at the same time reducing the number of entities with an unfavourable opinion. The positive impact of the revision is also seen through positive shifts in the management of business books, the preservation and use of public property, spending and the rational management of public funds. Although it also encourages the fact that the number of audits of identified irregularities from year to year reduces concerns about the fact that certain irregularities are still being repeated, especially since, for example, in the Ministry of Defence, the full list of assets has not been carried out and this directly reduces rational use and effective management. It also concerns the findings of the State Audit Office, which, for example, found that the town of Zagreb's off-balance sheet contained suspicious and controversial claims of as much as 466 million 858 thousand 711.33 kuna. Of which are the purchases of 304 million, a communal fee of 150 million and a monumental rent of a million 811 thousand kuna. I use this opportunity to commend the work of the State Audit Office, which it has done not only extensively and transparently but also a comprehensive quality report. I would also point out that the introduction of an internal audit in local-level entities has contributed to improving business and reducing irregularities. I would also point out a positive trend in how the State Audit Office works and, in particular, encourages the fact that it does not take criminal action because it does not have or has ever had the authority and what the Office could selectively do in a short period of faith. For this reason, the HDZ Club supports the adoption and will vote in favour of accepting the report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2007 and the report on the audits carried out for 2006 and the report on the audits carried out for 2006. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1086	I thank Mr. Goran Maric. IDS Club and Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1087	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Today, not today for two months is 2008, this is a clear review for 2006 and 2007. But let me take my turn now. On page 1, the following is said: “The debt-free state, according to the records of the reporting system of the competent organisational units for the monitoring of public debt at the end of 2006, was 88 billion kuna, and in the accounts or balance sheet on 31 December 2006, it was shown in the amount of HRK 60 billion. On page 5, it's clearly here now. He says: "According to the Public Debt Management Sector and the European Integration Administration of the Ministry of Finance's inter-nardon financial relations, the total public debt ended in 2006 without guarantees and potential liabilities amounted to these 88 billion kunas, and according to business books and financial reports amounted to 60 billion kuna. So no liabilities were recorded for vault records of 12 billion kuna, loans from international financial institutions of 6.8 billion kuna. London Club a billion and 700. The Paris Club is a billion kunas and liabilities under foreign and foreign loans of 6 billion. All 28 billion kunas. Somewhere so-called let's lose, I didn't say someone took it, lost 28 billion kuna somewhere. That's almost EUR 4 billion. How is it possible not to hide that money but simply not to show it in business books. It is about one third of the external debt of the Republic of Croatia. What is even more interesting is the following: the main book and the auxiliary books and financial reports they provide full information on the total public debt, assets, obligations, claims, sources of ownership. Not all implementing rules as required by the provisions of the Budget Act have been adopted. The consolidated financial statements of the central state and consolidated financial statements of the general government are not drawn up. The main book does not include assets relating to shares and shares in companies owned by the Republic of Croatia. Jobs in the establishment of a full concession register have not been completed and so on and so on. For me, gentlemen, it's the essence of this report, to find out what it is, as far as we're concerned, which is given to us on page 13, which is about revenue from concession fees. It is said that revenue from concessions in the State budget for 2006 is planned to amount to 310 million kuna. Done at 302 million kuna. It doesn't matter what 2.8% is smaller than the plan. But honored gentlemen, here we are, and this is also one of the evidence, this income and concession fees. So our money's leaking, so this country's money's leaking like it's full. It's like the state is just Swiss cheese. On the one hand, we fight for every kuna. We peel the skin of small entrepreneurs, such as, such as, poor people through the largest VAT on food of as much as 22%, and where the state can collect money without any great effort there, that money leaves it to clearly the best Croatian sons who have participated in the conversion in Croatian fashion. What am I talking about, Madam Chief State Auditor? I'm talking about tourist land. This is a problem that should be clearly addressed, or that should be addressed by someone not only in the State's Attorney's Office but also in the State's audit. But unfortunately, neither the State's Attorney's Office nor the State's audit is involved. There's an article here and there. And for 15 years, this team has been using thousands and thousands of acres, so on. tourism land owned by state. And so clearly here and there resells what they don't care about. The state pays nothing, and we, the State Audit, the State's Attorney's office, and so on, we keep our mouth shut. They've kept their mouths shut by now, or they've kept their mouth shut so far by all the governments. Left, right doesn't make any difference. However, I would even dare say that the first people of some left and right parties, former members of the Constitutional Court, did everything seem to be the status of that so-called. It solves tourist land in a way that belongs to privatised tourist homes. I repeat, gentlemen, this is about concessions. On Saturdays, if I'm not mistaken for the Morning List, that's how, in the same one where an interview appeared, it's not important that the text appears that the state is threatening to run out of hundreds of millions of square meters. tourism land because the principle of trust in land books takes effect in 2010 and clearly this cannot happen if the state in the meantime initiates litigation against hotelers. But not only the hotel owner, but also the owner of the agricultural combinations, and clearly if he makes a note of the dispute. But the state doesn't. The audit doesn't warn you about that. And that land at this point is worth, I don't know, maybe 15, maybe 20, maybe 30 billion euros. There's a public question to be asked here, which is fate, so-called fate. unrated land that has entered the planet on the conversion of a number of hotel houses, as well as agricultural combinations and is even normally registered to them, which are in the meantime privatised. I think that land should be the basis for the capitalisation of these companies and the re-owned entry of the state into these systems. It would be if we were unable to carry out a revision of conversion and privatisation of a kind of mini revision of conversion and privatisation. And another question that should also be asked what fate so-called fate is. tourism land that did not enter the core capital of transformed companies. First of all, I'm thinking about camps and what years of hotel houses they've been using without a single kuna fee. It's literally without a single kuna fee. So I'm talking all the time about these concessions that should be put in place somehow. And then it really turns out, gentlemen, that as I said the best sons of the Croatian people who participated in the conversion, who grabbed what was best of the best and the state clearly towards them, should not be a stepmother, because I said that the best sons of the Croatian people and because they had to give them more. I'd even dare say that I'm being cynical if these people weren't to blame for anything. They are guilty of governments that allow them, by their inaction, to become unsuspectingly rich in this way. I note, on the other hand, that tourism land is currently estimated at around 20 to 30 billion euros and is used without compensation. But not only that, but that it's also reselling and that nothing will unfortunately happen to anyone. I think it's a serious political problem. I think it's one of the serious political issues that no one is dealing with, so I get the impression that someone consciously wants to please someone because they're also consciously higher and they're taking advantage of their own ability to finance now these or those who are changing in power. On the other hand, the revision is clear not only to assess the business of a body of the authorities, for example. How much did Lesar ask the question of the ministers or the first people of the State Review iron cards would it be better to make sure that the MPs have the cards, too, right? Because everyone thinks we have them anyway. But it's not like that. He has the President of the Parliament, the Vice President. But the audit is and the presentation means the revenue and expenditure of the state budgets. On page 24 to say that the state budget was difficult in 2006. 107.7 billion kuna. Ten years ago, '96. So the budget revenue was 34 billion kuna. It's increased by over 3 times or over 300% in 10 years. That says, we have to admit, some economic recovery after the war. Unfortunately, everyone rightly remains unsatisfactory, dissatisfying, anxious, disappointed. But I'll talk more about it in the budget debate. But it's still moving forward and we have to admit it. Local self-government budgets also grew. The countries in 10 years for 314%, the City of Zagreb by 292%, local self-government means these counties, municipalities, cities 297%. So, from this we see that God normally created his beard only then for others and that it should change something there, that if the budget grows I speak the Republic of Croatia in some year by 7.8% then by some logic that it should have the same dynamic growth of both counties and other business entities. On page 32, what Mr. Lesar was talking about, we're talking about the structure of the expenditure of local self-government. The country means 84.3% waste, local self-government 10.7%, City of Zagreb 5%. So, the City of Zagreb, local self-government, that's 15.7%. I just want to hope that the state will go into decentralisation, but that it won't stop at 20% of what's being said in the Coalition Agreement and what's being talked about in the campaign on the left and on the right. There was no big difference but to move on, because that extra 5.6 billion, let's say, in a few years, that would be that 20%. This certainly is not enough for those environments to begin to govern them in the right sense by their own means. There is no financial decentralisation in the Republic of Croatia without one third of the funds that should belong to or should be shared between the City of Zagreb, local self-government, municipalities, cities or counties. Of these 20.5 billion kunas, as in 2006, had local self-government plus Zagreb, the City of Zagreb had 6.5 billion kuna, county 20 with 2.9 billion kuna, 126 cities with 8.1 billion kuna, 429 municipalities with 2.9 billion kuna. What needs first of all to be strengthened? It should strengthen the county, however, if for nothing, even if they had at least the status that the municipalities of the Constitution used to have in '74. A year. At least when it comes to some human resources, etc. etc. As far as a special part of the Ministry of Defense of the Ministry of the Ministry of Defense is concerned, there's only one thing I'd like to say. Here we see from the data that there are as many 49376 people working together. Now mentions some Croatian FBI who should be involved in organised crime. Some existing institutions one of them is the State's audit dealing with this crime. Croatia is a small country. We all know everything about everyone. If, in addition to these 25518 employees of the MUP, we add 2,000 of those working in secret services to them by counting the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, what we know, what I don't know five more times as much. If we add 10,000 tax collectors, customs officers plus 286 employees of the State Audit, then we see that 50,000 people in this country who are numbering 4.5 million people are engaged in some financial affairs and I want to believe, means in a country where one employee comes to 60, 70 people that can explore everything quite effectively, i.e. with each lip and kuna, you get to know who has come to this kuna or to June, on one condition that someone is doing their job. That's it. It is clear that this audit report will be accepted, supported, welcomed, but once again I would ask the state chief auditor to simply open this package, so-called. tourist land.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1088	Thank you. The HSS Club and Vice President Josip Friscic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1089	Mr. Vice President, our chief state auditor allow me to welcome you, colleagues and fellow MPs. Surely by analysing a comprehensive report, a report that I can say that I've been following for years what's going on in this sector, a report that many serve as a basis in assessing the situation of the relationship in making tax bonds, because all this stuff that's been shown here as an asset has been created, someone has paid off, someone has picked up, and in the end we are the ones who are considering how these funds have been spent. I want to stress at first that I welcome this report as far as the club is concerned, we fully accept it. I can also say that it clearly reflects the situation, we know it was an election year, but when it comes to Mrs Krasic, she's not worth it, because I know she did what I congratulate her on, because they were doubtful in the election year, someone is already good with their auditors, so she'll have a more beautiful picture of the report, and then she replaced the auditors from one county to another. In the end, reports were confirmed to be almost the same, which means the one who has so far accepted all those findings, eliminated shortcomings, progressed in the report, kept that trend. It is also true that there are those who, primarily because of what has already been said here today, because they are repeated, it is indicated, but there are no sanctions, and then some of them are numb to it, so we do great things on our own, because nothing has happened to us anyway. I think that in that part we must all be more sensitive together, because these reports are part of the overall view of the situation of relations in the Republic of Croatia, and because of such findings many in individual segments and in certain places and rightly classify that we have a number of different phenomena that we want to fight, today I am not going to characterise them here as such. I think we understand what we're talking about. But every report if it doesn't send a message in which direction and what we do, and it doesn't point to those who should do it, but we accept it as something that's very well done, then we've only done half the work. And that's why what we at the HSS Club read in these reports is that it indicates what needs to be done when it comes to regulation. It should be laid down in such a way that the sequence of failures follows the responsibilities. What should be done to strengthen this function and role of monitoring, collecting and spending funds. Surely what you were talking about here and I thank you because I am familiar with this process, it is a process of strengthening internal control of internal audit because we know well ten years ago it was a short review which because of the limited number of people, which is because of the regulatory, which is because we are all together at that stage I would say learn and train, but I think we have learned enough and that we have now come to the stage that your service is helping these services, because then it is a prevention, there are a lot of doctors here who would say better to prevent than to treat after that, because behind these findings should be attributed and therapy. And what's also the message of this report, from it we can read, it's a lot of speeches there are no funds, we have nowhere else to catch for the many needs that are coming to us, this report indicates that there is. That there are still those segments and sectors where the rent of the apartment is below 100 kuna per month, because I have tried to share the number of apartments and charged incomes, that there are still those goods that our common good is exploited, and billions of people get caught, and I think it's also a message to certain services that we should take care of, because if we don't do so then we're not all equal when it comes to using these goods and I think that we should be more effective in that direction and that we should also do what this report is saying, and that's a sensitivity to those who are concerned. I know that there was intervention, because it is equally regulatory and must be equally regulatory when we talk about units of local and regional self-government and there in my municipality of Gornja Rijeka, which has a budget of 900 thousand kuna and the City of Zagreb. And I know that in regulation we were aware that each other had to have auditors, but if these little ones hired auditors then ten percent of the budget would go to it. But I think there is a possibility, if we gave them the opportunity for such small municipalities to have common communal directors, then they can have joint auditors, and they will certainly help them because there are the weakest of those services, there is the least of the professions employed in these municipal administrative departments, and in this way we will help them a lot if we direct the activities, enable them to solve and help, and I believe that it will help them. And what I'm going to end up with, where this report in many controlled speeches, it's a public procurement process. We see that the segment produced almost the most remarks, numbered when they were added up. A new, coherent, European regulation has taken effect in this segment, and it is certain that we need to make efforts, especially to educate the Government, to help them through seminars by our budget users, all those who are at the head of and water, and jobs in certain state institutions and institutions, so that the transition to the new regulation next year does not shift in the number of indications of failure. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1090	I thank Mr. Fristic. The HDSSB Club and Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1091	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, respectfully Mrs. Krasic and Deputy. It's hard not to repeat this many speakers, but it's hard not to repeat something in the testimony already made by the speakers before me. However, I must say as I would quite frankly, when before I entered this House I saw the transfers of the Parliament and your reports with a lot of attention, as well as all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, especially when there was a report on the privatisation and conversion we know of, but then we were always impressed by the seriousness, the systematicity, the criteria that accompany world trends and world organisations in this area, so we were also quite disappointed with the absence of any sanctions for those responsible for whom the State audit gave an unfavourable assessment. It would be said that the people's hills were shaking, the mouse was born. I know that this is not a responsible State Audit, but those other authorities of this country who are in charge as the State Attorney's Office, etc., not to mention now, so that when we look at these latest assessments and when we look at these segments or elements that are in the State Audit, I would not repeat again about public, public procurement, goods and services segment problems and so forth. But since Mr. Lesar already mentioned it seems to me to be getting medicines, HZZO etc., the other day I received an interesting proposal at the hospital, to settle all debts at once because it is said that now it will be a regular payment, and you gentlemen from, who are getting medicines, will lower the price by 30%, and they can do so because those 30% to the Croatian state and the Croatian citizens have already been included in the price of a year or a half of the payment delay. Furthermore, I would like to say that in recent times, especially in the small, local administration and self-government and in some entities, the work of private auditors and ordered audits by certain entities has been reported, I would say very often that it would also be discredited and denitated by someone who is inadmissible or who is insubordinate, put in order. That's why I say I have full confidence in the State Audit. Unfortunately, she can't audit every legal entity. I may be a little boring today with this to say with my localpatriotism, but indeed this table that only mentioned someone here on page 71, table 22, as the content of this text clearly shows that, there are large differences in the fiscal capacities of the county and the City of Zagreb in 2006, and clearly also in the same table of tax revenues and share in the percentage between the fiscal capacity, i.e. total income and income from the tax revenues achieved. So it is really noticeable that the Brod-Posavia County with its 177 thousand inhabitants, which is close to 4% of the population in the Republic of Croatia, is, therefore, a fiscal stake of 1.7%, or that the population in Brod-Posavina County comes to an average of 1,000 and 934 kuna. This is the lowest amount in all, of all counties of the city of Zagreb in the Republic of Croatia and is a very clear indicator of the situation in Brod-Posavina County. Furthermore, when we look at the share of taxes in total income and receipts, then it is likely that it is 10% higher than some other counties, and then we wonder what it contributes, in which the achievement of other counties in total income and receipts if the tax is 44%, 38%, and the Brod-Posavia County is 38%. That's why I've performed today on a couple of occasions in relation to certain projects, and when it comes to the increase that Cain said with 312% state budget, 290 City Zagreb, 270 cities and municipalities, then I have to say that it's about here somewhere, so 300% compared to '96. A year, but it's not the same, it's not the same starting positions, so 300 percent per thousand kuna is 3,000 dollars, and at 100 kuna it's only 300 kuna. So we're not the same here. So, as Mr. Cain said, first God created himself a beard. So I wanted to say something about these ordered private audits. She seems to me to be nothing like mushrooms after the rain. I don't know if the state audit has the right to revise these audit houses or not. Here, I say, I am especially and not only on this table on page 71 but also on the other tables that follow on page 77 where the expenses and expenditures by county and City of Zagreb are seen, but also on the tables before this 71 page, so page 69, table number 20 where it is clearly seen that this Brod-Posavina County is indeed in the last place by fiscal capacity, which is unfortunate. And I hope he'll make it right, but it's not a matter of state review. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1092	Thank you. I shall inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure expired time to apply for a ten-minute hearing in 18.35. So we're done discussing clubs and we're moving on to an individual debate. First came the distinguished representative Antičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1093	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. She would refer to the state audit report, but here before I look back like many colleagues, she commended her colleague Dragica Zgrebec, speaking on behalf of the SDP club, and this year the work of the state auditor, who, along with her associates, carried out a very professional and minutely audit. I would refer to the report on the state property management business. I think it's very important. Namely, because this is exactly what one country's arrangement and its readiness is looking at, and through this office, how institutionally it is to control then and other contents. Namely, if such shortcomings arise from the state office itself that, according to the report, they do not meet the results related to the records of real estate and movables and the rights and obligations related to real estate and movable property owned by the Republic of Croatia, that is something that is here, but for this year and this year, where the findings and audits have been carried out really worryingly. It's been so many years. As early as 2001, when the structure of the record finally began just so that the state would knowingly manage its own property, to record and register the property it has here, it had been going on for many years but still in an unsatisfactory way. The Commission notes that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, nor does it constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The office doesn't even have a design unit that would first check and coordinate with the real situation on the ground. Next, the lease claims. So it's in the record itself, which is a very devastating result. However, just as the State itself takes care of its own assets, i.e. the claim and how it collects that property. So it's not just the state's job to collect taxes, it's also the state's property, and it's the property it owns that collects from them, for example, the rent. Thus, the claims for the lease of state assets amount to 6 million 353 thousand and 637 kuna. And just for that huge amount, please, how much money would be made and what anything could be, for example, in social, health care, in schools to do, but here, the state has not taken, specifically through this office has not taken any legal collection measures. It is a very illustrating example, therefore, of what I say only two companies in Osijek owe the state a million and 309 thousand kuna. That one natural person who, for example, uses a business space owned by a state of some 88 square meters to see, is not and for which a minimum fee is determined. The minimum lease was charged for this lease or collected for 2002, for 2003 and something else for 2004. After that, no kuna has been charged nor any collection measures have been taken. You see, sometimes in that hated system, it was called unconscious business. There's no name for this kind of business today. Since there's no name, there's no responsibility. The State audit also finds that the provisions of the Public Procurement Act are not respected. This is the most common thing in the business of the State Property Management Office. It's unfortunate that almost similar things happen at the Justice Department. It is an illustrative example when, with great effort for a difficult situation, because of the difficult state of the judicial authorities and the need for buildings, we have provided a huge space, a building in Split. And now she rather than adapt herself, so during that four-year term, not that she hasn't adapted, or the judicial authorities have moved and appointed new judges, and there's the biggest backlog, but that building has been leased and then what's going on? You don't charge rent at all. In a year it's been charged and then nothing. Nor shall measures be taken to charge that lease. It's something that's inadmissible. And so, the ministry that should still be controlled by judges, along with that pompous announcement of inspection supervision, can't control itself either, or these measures are necessary, and they're unacceptable. And it's not that I don't know about one neglect to charge such a huge claim. I would also refer very briefly to the revision of how they operate and how they act whether they comply with the provisions of the State Audit Act of the Local Self-Government Unit. So here is how in Zadar County, for example, the services of the transportation of primary school students were not carried out in accordance with the Public Procurement Act. In some smaller units of local self-government, for example, in the city of Benkovac, other than this non-intentional spending, it is an even smaller problem for me but a great abuse of the Public Procurement Act so that higher values are split into smaller ones so as to avoid the application of the Public Procurement Act. And exactly anti-corruption programs are very sensitive in the application of the Public Procurement Act. We are often criticised and forced to change the Public Procurement Act in order to make these public procurements more transparent. However, these provisions also appear to be being misused or played and the abuse of rights is nothing more than a violation of that fundamental right. In many such units, local self-government units in Zadar County are very similar, although I must mention that there are small municipalities that have almost done business without any objections, but they are rare and very small. What falls into my eyes is that I am not now reading for each individual but mainly something about the State Office itself for State Property Management, something that is characteristic of almost all local self-government units in this county and probably in others is precisely not to take collection measures, whether they stem from a contractual lease relationship or some other contractual obligations on construction, foam, etc. I'm saying, we used to have a name in that system for it, unwitting business, and now nobody's answering for it. Therefore, the procedures of the exercise are very rarely used and only in the beginning and later it is as if it is no longer trying to renew the action next year or to supplement it for new claims. In such a way, it is directly suited to certain companies or even to natural persons. So these are the main remarks on which they are, therefore, located in the central authorities but then also in the units of local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1094	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm interrupting the session. Get some rest. We'll be back at 9.30 tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1095	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, good morning to you all, continue the session, on the same agenda point, the review report. The first is Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue on this agenda point. It's Ms. Nevenka Majdenic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1096	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Ms. State Auditor, Your Honor, Mr. Deputy. A report on the work of the State Audit Office as well as previous years, we can say that quality, professionally done, extensively and provides sufficient data on the business of audited entities for one objective analysis of business, gives information to take a position on the findings and recommendations of the State audit. On the basis of the proposal for measures and procedures, to improve and take place the business of those entities, i.e. to bring it fully into line with the rules of law. The data on the number of audit entities, therefore, number 556, from the fact that the implementation of the audit covers public funds totalling 136 billion kuna, and that the audited entities are territorially spread throughout the country, is easy to assume which large state audit business they did in 2007. Full efficiency, the rationality of the work must have secured, must have been secured through a good structure of the State Office, through a combination of functional and territorial systems. In addition to the Central Audit Office... 20 more regional offices in the county centers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also necessary to highlight one good co-operation of the state office with other state authorities in order to combat and detect irregularities in a timely manner. So, good co-operation with the state's attorney's office and the M.O.P. It is commendable that participation and membership in various international audit and similar financial institutions, the State Audit Office participates actively in the process of joining the Croatian European Union and creates the possibility of obtaining new funds from international sources. In this reporting period, the State Audit Office gave 16.4% of the unconditional opinion of the 91 audited entity, 1.8%, therefore, of the unfavourable opinion for 10 subjects, while for all other audited entities a conditional opinion was expressed. Therefore, 455 audited entities or 81.1% Compared to the previous year have increased the number of entities in which the audit is carried out each year and for which an unconditional opinion has been expressed and the number of entities with an unfavourable opinion has been reduced. The impact of the revision is seen through positive shifts in the management of business books, the preservation and use of public property, spending and more rational public funds management. This impact is certainly due to strengthening the internal control and internal audit system as a key factor in sound and effective financial management of public, in particular by budgetary means. In the case of those entities whose system operates, the State audit has not identified irregularities, i.e. for their business and financial reports, the State Office has expressed an unconditional opinion. And certainly by further strengthening the parts of those entities and state audits, there will be more and more such entities that can be said to be public funds, to be spent in accordance with the laws rationally and economically. If we look at the state budget and the users of the state budget then we see that there are no unfavourable findings of the state audit, that 15 unconditional and 18 conditional opinions are expressed, and that is certainly the reason, therefore, to increase the number of unconditional opinions compared to the previous year, that this is the result of the consolidation of the state budget and the strengthening of the single system of the state treasury. And for that, we can certainly say that the government and the Ministry of Finance, which through a series of legal measures, have put the rules in place in budget finance, are indisputable. What I would like to single out today is that, although there were 18 conditional opinions, it is necessary to say that, meaning conditional opinions were for audited entities, for their business in 2006, but that the Government and the Ministry of Finance are doing everything possible to make those conditional opinions the least possible. And for this reason, I should point out to you that the internal financial control system in the public sector of the Republic of Croatia is particularly taken into account. Basic regulations have also been laid down in the Republic of Croatia which regulate the internal financial control area in the public sector, the Law on the Internal Financial Control System in the public sector, the Internal Audit Regulation of Budgetary Users, the Strategy for the Development of the Internal Financial Control System in the Public Sector. The administrative capacity is also strengthened, it should be recalled that it is established within the Ministry of Finance that a body is set up to harmonise the internal audit of financial control. That the Government of the Republic of Croatia has appointed the Council for Internal Audit as the advisory body of the Minister of Finance, who is also the President of the Council, and members are ministers and leaders of certain bodies, the Chief State Auditor and individual Head of Internal Audit Units. Functionally independent internal audit units have been established in all ministries. Internal audit units and sub-accountary users are also set up. Financial management and control shall be established in all bodies and at the level of the beneficiaries of the budget and shall include all budgetary resources, including European Union funds and other resources. The financial management and control and internal audit shall be responsible for the heads of budgetary users. It is also necessary to say that the Ministry of Finance has developed a system of education and allocation to authorised internal auditors in the public sector and has laid the foundation for education for areas of financial control and governance. It is necessary to say that a number of education cycles have been held to date, and we can safely say that in this system of internal financial controls in the public sector of the Republic of Croatia, which the Government and the Ministry of Finance believe is extremely important that we can say that a legal framework for the functioning of the internal financial control system has been established. That implementing strategies, programmes, plans, manuals and other acts have been adopted. That the implementation of laws and implementing rules and acts is ongoing, takes place in accordance with adopted strategies, programmes and plans. That a system of education is in place that takes place continuously and in accordance with established plans and programmes. And that personnel teaming in all areas is going according to plans both at national and local level. And at the end of this report, they can freely conclude, and this report confirms that financial discipline, accountability and legality in the management of budgets are on the rise and I propose that this report be fully accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1097	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Andri Hebrang's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1098	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, Madam Chief State Auditor, colleagues and colleagues. We have a 13th report from the State Audit Office, but it's not unfortunate but happy because I see two strips of optimism in it. One is that the State Office is really set up as one modern European office, and the other is that the results are getting better every year, so I am convinced that the number 13 is this time both for the state auditor and for all of us a happy number. I would therefore point out a few facts in this report on which I base such an optimistic conclusion. First, the Office is working under the Law on State Audit and is implementing here for 13 years getting better and better. We could also say that the Office's function has been brought into these conditions to the optimum. He's doing his job better and better. Such good work of the Office is our best guarantee of legal work and clear insight into the business of all entities who spend the state budget or local budgets. The condition that this happens is what the Office gives us. And that's that we have insight into the business of all these entities. So that business is what you say, and I don't like that word transparently because transparent means transparent, and transparent is something undefined. I'd rather say it's a visible business, a beautiful Croatian dictionary. And these reports really show every element of that business for anyone who wants to look at numbers and data. The office did a big job again. Revision of 556 subjects but also the Office has done several good tasks in its structure. So, among other things, he was involved in international activities. Meeting with representatives of the European countries' audit offices. He completed a "tweeting project" with the United Kingdom, with their national office through the CARDS programme. All these projects ended very successfully. He completed a strategic development programme from 2003 to 2007 also successfully. And we can say he's formed into a modern European office. Now something about the contents of these reports. For a short period of time, I would actually give a general review of the situation without getting too much into the details because when you analyze entities that master with 135 billion kuna a year then of course you always have to find irregularities and that's why the Office exists. But you need to look at the general picture. And she's next. So the users of the State Budget, the ones who are the biggest users of the largest amount of money, got really good grades. Of the 33 biggest users, the ministry is included, therefore, in the state administration. About 50% received an excellent or unconditional rating. 50% got one passable good grade conditionally. And none of them got a bad grade. And that's not the first time. I compared it to the results from 2005. It was about the same relationship. So we've achieved an optimal grade and I don't think it's much better and possible. And it would be convenient in the final word, sir, the chief state auditor to see comparisons with other countries. For example, with us 50% of the ministries got a great grade, I'll translate them into school grades. And 50% of that grade high. So let's say good or conditional. Is the ministries of other countries better? I don't believe it because as far as I'm following up on at least the biggest affairs in European countries, I can see that in many, we are outnumbered. Of course, you should always strive for a better one, but one such comparison might be interesting for all of us. What is quite visible is at least by my analysis that there are significantly worse results in the area of spending at the level of local administration than at the level of state administration. I'll just back it up with a few results. All those who spend budget money at the level of local administration, and 339 entities were analysed, achieved weaker results than those at the state level. So we said from the state level 50% got the grade excellent. At local administration level, only 6%. So 19 of the 339 subjects got their grade unconditionally or excellently, which is only 6%. So it's much weaker than the state level. Also when we analyze an unfavourable score, so the worst results at the state level were gone, and at the local level there are 5 of them, which is somewhere close to 2% of the total. When I compared those results to 2005 I saw exactly the same results. That's when the unconditional grade got the same thing somewhere between 5 and 6%. So best estimate of subjects at local level. And 6 subjects, so about 2% got a non-transient grade or unfavourable. In other words, as well as at the level of state, levels, as at the level of state budget spenders, where one quality constant is achieved, it seems to me at the local administration to achieve one significantly less quality constant. That would be the conclusion that would come from these reports and we have to ask ourselves why. Well, it's very likely that those who spend budget money at the state level are much more exposed to the public, much more exposed to criticism. Much more exposed to what we say to provide insight into your business. And those at local level are not so much a target of the media or of the public, so I guess that's one of the reasons why at local levels, the result is weaker than at the level of state institutions that spend their budget. And there, perhaps, should be a little consideration of the methods that these findings and at local level would be more operational in correcting errors, perhaps by reputation of the state level. What are the mistakes we most often see? Again, mistakes from previous planning audits are repeated, in the realization of revenue, in the execution of expenditure, in public procurement. It's about a story repeated, but in every category, it's a better story than it was a year ago. As far as planning is concerned, it is mainly about wrong planning compared to spent amounts. And the recommendation of the State Audit is that the number of items in the planning is reduced to common accounts, so that it does not go into too much detail would probably also simplify and cheaper the work of the state administration in that sense, and that recommendation should certainly be supported and recommended by all those who spend budget money. As income comes to pass, we can see that what was happening in earlier years is becoming less and less. This means that the entity's own income is not paid into the state budget, but is spent on its own special account. That's what the State Audit has been warning for years. This time, the finding is that such a side account is getting smaller and smaller and that the improvement compared to the previous year is pronounced and noticeable. This is, of course, the result of the formation of the treasury, the single account for all users, the abolition of a whole series of parallel accounts, and thus the reduction of government budget deficits. I'd only mention here for a short time of public procurement. Public procurement also has a whole series of irregularities, but we must say what is not often mentioned again that at the local level, public procurement consumption is as much as in the state, and we are talking about errors in the state, and we never talk about errors in public procurement and at local levels, and in this report we see that there are them on both levels and at the other level, and this should, of course, be especially alerted and eradicated. However, it should be said that one part of the public procurement errors fell on the burden of medicines this year, only that item is again higher compared to the previous year. This year it was 3 billion and 600, and last year it was 2 billion 800 million kuna. Unfortunately, it will grow in the next few years. So, the item of drugs is still one big misunderstanding between the State Audit and the Resort Ministry that should really be resolved once. I believe the State Audit is right. The procurement of medicinal products should be made in accordance with the Public Procurement Act, but respect the regulations applicable in Europe for the purchase of medicinal products, which is that they are not supplied with conventional public procurement, but by negotiating with more than 1000 entities annually as they participate in the supply of medicinal products. And that note that we have too expensive drugs doesn't really stand, because our medicines are consistent with prices in the European Union, especially from three countries. It's Slovenia, Italy and France. So this guarantees us that these medicines do not exceed the European price level. Of course, the battle to lower the price is a permanent battle. Finally, it should be said that these results are optimistic, that they suggest that at the state level very seriously and with great responsibility, the lords with the state money, that these methods should be transferred to the local level, and I believe that the State's revision will succeed with its further work and therefore this report should not only be supported but also warmly welcomed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1099	Thank you. It's Madam Representative Nadica Jelash's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1100	The Honorable President, the Honorable fellow MPs, fellow MPs, the Honorable Madam State Auditor and Deputy. Here I am taking part in the debate on State Audit's findings by commenting on the defence ministry's findings. In fact, although we received three ministries in the 2006 review package, so the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration. I will remain in my discussion only at the Ministry of Defence because it only received a conditional opinion of the State Audit on its business for 2006. The other two ministries received unconditional opinions, as defined by the definition that no significant irregularities were identified in their business in 2006. What caused this to affect the statement of conditional opinion on the Ministry of Defence's business. First of all, the State Review resents the ministry that its financial plan as a basic financial document is not comprehensive since it does not plan all income and income, nor expenditures and expenditures, although it was certain and predictable to be realized. Because income and receipts were not planned, expenditure and expenditure were higher than planned. These excesses, though, are not relatively large. A little over 2% of the revenue achieved, but in order to avoid confusion this does not mean that it is absolutely large amounts, so I will say that the illustrations are almost as much of the budget of the Međimurje County from which I come for 2006, which is just a confirmation that the ministry has a total of very large funds and is therefore more responsible for the availability of these funds and the word of the taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia. How most of the unplanned revenue is achieved from its own activity, i.e. I wonder why it hasn't been built for a long time, although the draft law on the closure and re-use of military properties has been announced, which would finally solve the problems of garages and business spaces that are still at the ministry's administration, and should not be. The following materially very important reason for the conditional opinion of the State Audit was that the Ministry did not fully and for real value record all available assets in the country and military representations abroad in business books. Therefore, the ministry does not behave as a good master and is one of the basic principles of managing budget, or public money. It is thousands of apartments, garages and business spaces for which there is no complete and uniform data on their values, and it is justified to ask the question of the quality of management of these vast assets, i.e. the question of non-recovery of rent income. That millions of unpaid rents are the best evidence that in 2006 out of 375 business premises, 3.7 million kuna was earned, while of the 10 times the number of apartments and garages, so to be precise, the apartment was 3857, and the garage 3126 reached only 3 and a half million kuna. Finally, the Ministry did not provide data on the accounting value of the assets to the Central State Office for State Property Management, although of course it was required to do so. A large number of irregularities with the Ministry of Defence have been identified with the application of the Public Procurement Act. This concludes framework contracts without indicating the annual value of the delivery. The deliveries were negotiated even on the basis of orders from the ministry's end-users. A certain number of suppliers were made on the basis of contracts concluded in 2002, 2004 and 2005, although the Public Procurement Act prescribed that the procurement plan be adopted for the financial year, and the procurement process only starts after the budget was provided for. The deadlines for the execution were negotiated from the date of conclusion of the contract until the new procurement procedure was carried out or even unlimited. The procurement contracts were concluded in accordance with the offers whose values were in most cases higher than the planned funds presented in the procurement plan, which resulted in payments being made in the current year up to the amount of the planned funds for that year while part of the purchase was paid from the re-scheduled appropriations from other positions or payment was simply transferred over the next financial year. The procurement procedures were carried out decentralisedly through individual design units so that the contracting service does not have data on the total purchase value in one year, and the ministry has no established computer records for the value and quantitative monitoring of completed contracts for the purchase of goods, works and services, in one word I will use the medical term, the environment ideal for the development of the corrupt virus. And that's why it's good that yesterday's amendments and additions to the Law on Designation and Part-Corruption of the Central Authorities of the State Administration are central to the public procurement site of a particular Ministry of Economy. Not only was the supply of goods and services carried out contrary to the Public Procurement Act for certain supplies not even the consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia was obtained. In particular, there are five armored vehicles and no cost-effectiveness analysis of the rental of motor vehicles has been developed to determine the eligibility of the rental of motor vehicles in relation to other types of procurement. What concerns the most about this whole story is the fact that the same irregularities were identified and audited in the previous 2005 business, but the ministry kept repeating them year after year without serious intention to act on the orders of the State Audit Office. It can therefore be freely said that such a business is filled with irregularities, in fact regular business practice at the Ministry of Defence, so the practice of bad and irresponsible money management of Croatian citizens. The top of the irony is that the sanctions under allegations "for a responsible person", so for the first man of such a ministry is a transfer to the place of the first man of the second ministry, the interior ministry that has so far received a positive, or unconditional opinion from the State Audit Office. I wonder if the interior minister will pursue the defence minister on the basis of irregularities identified by the State Audit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1101	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Bruno Kurelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1102	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Ms. State Auditor, colleagues and colleagues. It is difficult now to say something new that is not said at the level of the report, and then in discussions on the topic of this agenda point both during yesterday and today. First, I can conclude that the report on the work of the state office is very professional and gives professional and independent opinions on the truthfulness and objectivity of the financial situation, the results of the business and cash flows in all 556 entities where the audit was carried out. Therefore, the quality of commendation made. But based on the findings and recommendations made only a diagnosis of the situation was made. That was the purpose of the audit. What's to do next? According to the logic of things now comes the institution of a regulated rule of law that needs to run a sequence of actions that will sanction the observed irregularities. Perhaps someone in my discussion, especially those whose knowledge of the revision is far greater than mine, will realize that the parameters for discussion are torn from the whole, but the whole of the findings that points to different degrees of irregularities shows high values. In only 16.4% of the audit cases made in 556 subjects did not indicate irregularities. From the whole for the elements of my discussion I singled out units of local self-government, city and county level. The analysis parameters originate from the two most common categories of assessment of the audit done, unconditional opinion, no maladministration in the conduct, i.e. conditional opinion indicates found irregularities of a different degree. Why did I choose local self-government units at this level? Countys and cities with their structure and personnel potential should have a developed internal control system to prevent and remove irregularities, and it is also large budgets that mostly make citizens pay taxes and contributions more than 70%, and this knowledge is even more sensitive to the public. Part of the municipalities can't use their personnel potential at least for now, put into this category so here we can write down certain irregularities sometimes and... What's seen from the audit findings? [[You don't understand.]] Of the total of 20 counties, only 7 or 35% of all counties have expressed unconditional opinion, so an opinion that involves full compliance with regulations and laws. Other 13 or 65% of the county found very different degrees of irregularities in dealing with public funds. And what's only in the cities? The situation here is even less attractive. Of the 122 cities in which the revision was made, 7 or 5.7% of them were not detected, 114 cities or 93.4% were found to have different degrees of irregularities in the handling of public funds, while in the case of one city an unfavourable opinion was given. Reading this report makes it easy to see that the percentage of irregularities in public procurement procedures in both county and city areas is shown. It is a devastating finding that a large number of local self-government units are not carrying out the prescribed public procurement procedures at all. This gives space for non-transparent actions, which ultimately opens up potential for corruption. These negative indicators of respect for laws and regulations, budget spending and management of the given assets, measurable parameters raise doubts that this is already becoming a bit of a rule of conduct in this environment. These lessons can be supported by a team that has no more significant deviations when we compose the findings of previous audits, and perhaps later on, a Mrs. State Auditor will say something about it. Eternal calculators will say the standards applied by the revision are too high for Croatia. Do we really think of entering Europe where the use of public funds is characterized by economic, efficiency and transparency or, as Professor Hebrang said, perhaps a nicer word of visibility. Or we'll still be high-ranking dribbles as the most appreciated element of the collective game in our environment. It's hard to relativize the facts here because the parameters are numerically evaluated. Speculation sites and the correction of the wrong quote are losing weight here. And now what is it to do? Can I be responsible for the functioning of the rule of law just to find out we're moving on? The following is in the hands of a regulated rule of law. If she exists, this moment will be stopped. The 2007 audit results will then produce some other results entirely. It's time to make sure of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1103	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Davor Huška's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1104	Thank you, Mr. President, Madam Chief State Auditor, Mr. Deputy, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'd say a few words also from the level of revision of local units, more specifically cities and municipalities. In the beginning, a truly meaningful and comprehensive report that shows all that we are interested in. And there's hardly any or possible covert information here in this report. From this very visible report we have a whole series of information that we can use not only to comment on the revision, but also to us interesting on the ground and comparisons of different situations or states by counties related to revenues, receipts at the annual level. And here, you would particularly refer to the county from which I come, Požega-Slavonska, where it is visible on page 52 of this material that we have obtained that unfortunately our county is in the last place by review of the incomes and receipts achieved, that until three, four years ago it was in third, fourth place from behind. And if there it were, after these revolutionary moves of changing power in the county, we hold our last position tightly. And these are indicators that do us no good. And I'm afraid the state of the county will only get worse with this kind of leadership and this kind of work. Here, along with this whole series of information that we can get from this report, I would like to look back at the review of financial reports and business reports for the 2006 report, for 576 local units from which it is particularly visible for cities and municipalities that the most significant objections identified by the revision are precisely related to property, income and expenditure, or public procurement operations. Mistakes in public procurement proceedings would not agree with a colleague who spoke earlier, that this means that procedures are not conducted at all in the area of cities and municipalities because they are not true. Procedures are being conducted, and the least mistakes in this procedure that are not difficult to make, because the public procurement process has been quite complicated, I hope that this new Public Procurement Act will be simplified, are quite easy to make. For example, in my town, we had an objection because two contracts of fifty contracts over one year, two contracts after the public procurement process of the selected contractors were not published in "The People's Newspaper". Well, that's one mistake that's been found in the audit report. And I don't agree that public procurement procedures are being conducted at all. It would be good to make little contact with cities and municipalities to see what kind of situation we are in, that smaller cities and municipalities do not have enough professional people to carry out public procurement, that they do not have public procurement offices and that these errors that are observed here are really minimal compared to the way they are done. There is also a consistent error in the transfer of the appropriations recorded in the accounts as capital aid, in one part. Also, the accidental spending of certain types of dedicated revenue over the year, as possible and as we all practice, is practically that money is not on our account but that we use these dedicated revenues for certain purposes during the year, and that we meet our obligations towards the audit finding afterwards. I would also like to point out here, here is the Office of State Audit, which is working in our county as an example which is becoming an increasingly less and less an institution that is going out on the ground with the aim of punishing, warning the units of local self-government, and increasingly becoming an advisory and educational institution. And this is visible from this finding where practically unconditional opinion in financial reports and business is expressed for seven cities, the two cities are from Požeko-Slavon County, Lipik and Plekernica with unconditional opinion. And I believe that's the result of the good work of the State Audit Office. And no city or municipality has expressed an unfavorable view of financial reports. Out of this whole number, the total number of cities and municipalities, I think this is, which is just one city and only four municipalities, a really good result, and that in the future, if the Office of State Audit continues such an advisory and educational role, it will be even more quality. In any case, all praises are given to the work of the State Audit Office and on the ground. In cities and municipalities there really is a good one, I can say a little co-operation with offices where we contact them over the years, we ask certain questions, we correct the mistakes that have been observed in the audit finding for the past year. And I believe that such cooperation will be in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1105	Thank you very much. We have one correction. Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1106	It's unfortunate that I have to correct my colleague from Požega-Slavon County, but we're actually in the same sauce. However, this information that is Požeko-Slavon County is true that it is in fact in the total revenues and receipts for the county in the last place. I mean, when you look at the average income and income in the county by the head of the population, then it's clear that it's Brod-Posavia County, which is actually sad for both of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1107	Thank you. Let's move on. ... Whose? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] He can't. He can't fix a correction. You should have called earlier. It's Mr. Agent Goran Heffer's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1108	Dear Mr. President, Ms. State Auditor, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. I received excellent cream or a basis for the debate from both my colleagues, Kurelic, and in a certain way there is a colleague, Grubisic. Namely, I come from Vukovar-Srijem County and will essentially discuss local units or local units audits. But first, we have a report from the State Audit Office on which I would like to express my satisfaction and, above all, to the high level of professional objectivity that has been done the same. It is this objectivity that is the most important factor of such documents in order to see who has worked and works in local units and who is carrying out its activities of general social importance. In my debate, therefore, I would refer only to one part of this report, which is the third part that speaks about the revision of local units, specifically to the review of the financial statements of the Vukovar-Srijem County in 2006 and to the opinion given on the same. I would comment on some of the facts discussed in this report and would also ask a few questions if it is possible to get an answer, i.e. if it is possible to obtain some important information that is not seen from the report. So, according to the review report, she expressed her conditional opinion on the financial reports and business of Vukovar-Srijem County. I would look back and focus more on that part of business, so not on financial reports. First of all, I would notice that, taking into account the other reports that are dominated by this very conditional opinion, it could say that this is common and that it is not any problem, as here are some discussions so far, to say and emphasize it here. But for us from Vukovar-Srijem County, which according to numerous indicators is the very county that lagging behind other Croatian counties, both in terms of the development and living standards of its citizens, it is very important how budgets are spent and whether in this case more than 5% of the total and 10% of the original revenues of the county were spent in a way that is not in line with the law. Namely, the report indicated the following, and I will quote this part: "In September 2006, the county and the company in which the county has the ownership stake concluded a contract for the execution of works on the cutting of land and the arrangement of agricultural land worth 8 million 499 thousand 110.48 kuna with value added tax. The selection of the contractors of those works was carried out by direct contract.". As is known under the Public Procurement Act, direct procurement of goods, works and services by companies owned by units of local and regional self-government is not possible. Therefore, the selection of contractors should be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the laws which require the provision of goods, works and services whose value is equal to or greater than 200 thousand kunas must be implemented in a public tender. In addition to not only the legality but also the economic justification of carrying out such a procedure in a prescribed manner, he speaks a given opinion which he also says, again, "by implementing the prescribed public procurement procedure, the counties could have achieved more favourable conditions of procurement". So the county could spend less money on the job. But in this case it's not done that way. So there's a direct contract here worth 42 times the prescribed value, even more if we take the few hundred thousand kunas. How can an esteemed colleague, Nenad Stazic, stress not 42% but 42 times the required value. I'm not sure since I haven't been able to study and analyze all the other reports from the material we've received, but this could be a 2006 record of the amount contracted with a direct contract. Unless it's me, I'm sorry to say, but it could be. In its report forwarded to Vukovar-Srijem County, the State Audit Office ordered the purchase of goods, works and services whose value is equal to or greater than EUR 200 000 to be implemented in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Procurement. The report further says, I repeat quote "The County has accepted the findings of the State Audit Office in connection with the procurement process.". The audit was sent in July 2007, so here are nine months, eight months have passed since then. So it's clear to the county that the law was broken because by accepting the findings they confirmed it. There were also a lot of words about this case at one of the meetings of the County Assembly during the debate on the 2006 Business Audit Report. At that time, a claim was made by the head of the county government that this was a very successful job for the county. Probably so they have some more detailed data from us opposition councilmen. At the same SDP council meeting, they asked several questions that they had not received answers, so I will take the opportunity to come here now as a parliamentary representative and, if possible, to get answers to them. Well, the first question would be the next question. The audit report does not state which company the contractor of those works is involved. Therefore, no company name indicated. Officially, the council members of the county assembly have not received, or at least not opposition council members. I would therefore ask the question of what is called an unnamed company with which Vukovar-Srijem County has concluded a direct contract of EUR 8.5 million for the performance of those works. The second issue would be the following, the SDP county councils have repeatedly asked the question of the county's behaviour following the orderly implementation of the procurement in accordance with the provisions of the Public Procurement Act. Here, a meeting of the County Assembly was held yesterday that also failed to get an answer on whether anything had been done within the meaning of the State Audit Office's order. I would ask you what you can, I won't ask what you need, because it's clear, do County if the funds or most of those funds are spent, if the job or part of the job is done, and all of this we see isn't done in accordance with the Public Procurement Act. Finally, a question of county responsibility for the conclusion of that contract was repeatedly raised by a direct contract, as well as for non-compliance with the State Audit Office's mandate. So far, at least nothing has been found out, and I would therefore ask one last question and this time one last question, and that is whether the State Audit Office will forward this case to the State's Attorney's office, or what will happen if from the conduct of the county by order of the audit there is nothing. I apologize if I may have abused this position by some parliamentary representative, but I would ask if it is possible to get an answer to these questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1109	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Rajko Ostojić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1110	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, esteemed state auditors. I will join those who have spoken about the State Audit Report around me and I am sure that in this way and with such a basis it is much easier to talk to each parliamentary representative. But in doing so, I will stick to the fact that the quality of the report, and even the positive shifts, can't be an excuse if we just find out, in fact for years, certain continuous behaviour, or the consequences resulting from it, and that it may be lagging behind, I think it's a very important answer, and that's the Croatian Parliament. In fact, I understand this high democratic home in this country as a place that, based on the guidance given to us by these government audit reports, is exactly going to be an opportunity to change the way the private owner primarily refers to insufficient use, and above all to the lack of protection of public goods in which the state should be a real master or protect it in the way that the private owner protects its property. In that part, I think it is best to cross with one example, which is that we are privatizing 272 hotel houses that were estimated at only 5.2 billion kunas in the 1990s, today we are in a position to actually witness the booking of land precisely by these companies that were purchased in debt or by 1 kuna, and in fact there was already a hidden intention to make a very good profit and not in millions but in billions of kunas to take what is public or, generally, good. That is what some other MPs have already talked about, and I think that this example of behavior actually shows how we relate when this Assembly gets both information and guidance. Plato has long been betrayed with other people's money, and I think unfortunately in Croatia we have a situation to behave like a state and that we are very generous with someone else. We treat public well-being and that land becomes exactly an opportunity for all those who want to make huge money on a non-actual state, and then I see that we can do so with laws, or effective means. I would like to remind you that in 2000, another Ostojić, when he was deputy tourism minister, proposed to this House, a law prohibiting booking, i.e. the law on tourist land. As far as I know, that draft's been on hold for the eighth year. And that is exactly what should have prevented the situation from being legally registered in this country according to current data 40 million square meters of land and another 100 million square meters of land is in undefined status, or in this legal vacuum, expected the court to work in the way it suits it. Namely, I want to conclude one other thing, which is that there is one means and that is, it is not a bookmaking done in another country, from another, but from the Croatian court. I don't want to talk about court, but I'm going to talk about the laws that made this possible. Namely, it is unacceptable that the court in the Bujama books... A tourist from Umag, for his 400 thousand squares and a court in Labin, not so far away, does not book another company, a specific tourist company Rabac. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's just examples, it doesn't matter names, I know that the revision doesn't even specify names, because it's basically the right principle, and that's that we're talking to the public and not just about the specific entity who eventually made a move. What I'm saying is that what I'm saying at the time means the moves that were made in 2003 when the state's attorney asked for a ban on recording actually show that such a public relationship towards public good, according to something that really represents the value and ownership of the claim, and in that part of the State's audit report does not miss it, because I think it's perfectly demonstrated, but is missing the answer of other competent authorities behind that. I'm going to take advantage of the situation here, in some way to point out that on another example, a similar attitude towards public good, according to something that the state needs to keep, is found in this other special part of the report relating to the MORH. Just a small view if you see 360 businesses with income of 3 million and 700 thousand kuna per year. I don't need to say how many squares it is, although I do know the fact that we don't have the entire property and something that's actually continuous behavior and unfortunately something that's been going on for 10 years. In 1998, the provisions of the Law on the Hire of Business Space have led to the situation that public tenders must be carried out. Since that time in '98, so for 10 years now, we have a situation where we need to figure out that the enormous value, or all those squares that are in the MOTH, is either in the lease or in the blinds is empty or someone who's been favored when he's using that space. Namely, there can be no excuse to wait for a law that will carry out that repurpose. And the second in the report itself is stated, it clearly says that the MORH has records but it is not quite adapted to what it says in the books. It would be really weird if the Department of Defense were in a situation if he didn't have a list of his assets. They have it but they don't have it all. They don't have it as a whole because it's not estimated value. And just to remind you, dear colleagues and colleagues of 265 businesses, 265 properties listed from 560 in this report are worth 32 billion kuna. Just so much about what values we're talking about. And I think that this ping-pong situation in which there is a transfer of responsibility to the possible absence of a law, and for 10 years we have actually witnessed the situation probably you in your city as I can see in Split that thousands, and I am telling you that the entire business space fund in Split that exists and is formerly owned in the quotes of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, which means today the state property is staring at or empty or is in a situation that the employees who do not have defined relations are inside. It's been going on since 1998, according to this report. So 10 years is the situation of undefined lease agreements. Such a relationship with property is something I must say is inadmissible. And I would invite all those who participate in this before us before we all here to make sure that the state audit reports, with all the praises that the Office has made, don't actually remain just a finding of constant behavior. It is in the interest of all those for whom we are here and for whom we need to protect the very common good and property that we are obliged to act in this way and to adopt those regulations that can protect it. And lastly, I'm going to say one more thing right in that part of my life I'm going to try to concentrate on the MORH report on this public secret procurement. The use of Article 6 which, by virtue of the Law, actually enables this procurement to be done precisely with the exemption from public procurement procedures, then we see in the report that there was actually no reason to do so. I think that the matter needs to be changed effectively, and I think the state audit find just points out, and I am well-intentioned as the military commander says there is no need for such a secret public procurement and that it would be good for the behaviour of those who are doing it there, and I hope that the future will not be in the situation that a billion and 200 million in the plan for 2006 and then the revision of 750 million kunas of the plan that has been achieved, and that is 58% of the purchases in the MORH will be resolved according to the procedure that is prescribed because I am convinced that there is no need to do so with this exception. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1111	Thank you very much. It's all right. Yes, we have one replica. [[Intruder: Replica.]] Mr. Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1112	Mr Ostojić, the second Ostojić mentioned by Veljko Ostojic from IDS who proposed the Law on Tourist Land. However, the culprits for which the law was not passed lie at the top of the former and current governments, because apparently some people who covered the ministerial posts on the payroll are unfortunately the large capital, and more and more these same people wanted to make them an enormous profit so that they could traffic their political position in a entrepreneurship position the next day. We were only there in 2005, just before I got one conclusion from the State Auditor that we forgot about ourselves or committed to the Croatian Privatisation Fund, well, what's left of it because the vast majority of the same in prison that for an asset that is not included in the estimated value of the companies means procedures in accordance with the provisions of Article 47. The Privatisation Act or the Croatian Privatisation Fund has been obliged to provide the Government of the Republic of Croatia with information on property owned by a state that is included and property not included in the estimated value, and so on and so on. Unfortunately, until today, that's not what happened. I want to talk about it yesterday, I'm going to talk about it again, I want to believe that we're going to provoke a debate and that something is finally going to change because it's absurd that the asset estimated at EUR 20, 30 billion is simply going to say to whom it suits. And where it doesn't sell out that those individuals without swearing are using hundreds and hundreds of acres to probably, I don't know, finance someone's campaigns and clearly increase their own assets.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1113	Thank you. It's Mr. Agent Ivan Hanzek's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1114	Dear President, Madam Auditor, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm really not going to continue with these praises that we've all intended to send and have already referred my predecessors to the work that the State Audit Office has done. I'll just briefly look back at some of the experiences that are related to local self-government. My colleague Hebrang mentioned some things, he even gave me good cream, and that's where we'll probably agree. It is indisputable that the most problems and perceived shortcomings in local self-government are. However, it should be objective that local self-government is quite often without fiscal capacity, while there is insufficient financial resources in line with the expectations of its citizens or our citizens, often in a situation where there is no human resources to conduct business. But that's not the only reason. We met in the Association of Cities, or in the Union of Cities, and met with the inability to maintain congregations because from certain municipalities and cities, more often the municipalities could not come to the congregation because they did not have enough financial resources to go on a two - day official trip. What I would like to warn you about is what Hebrang said, which is that changes should be considered in the planning system to group purchasing plans because it is quite often not only the responsibility of local self-government in non-compliance with plans but it is quite often a phenomenon given the development potentials and developments in the state that state firms or institutions actually impose certain separations and involvement in business on us during the year. For example, I quote Croatian roads are moving into a reconstruction that we were not informed of in due time, and it is actually a joint project that we must not isolate or eskicipate from it because we are solving one of our problems and, quite often, we include the post-festum in the programmes and we are trying to solve the way and the financing and the conclusion of such a job. What I would like to emphasise in these commendations when it comes to the work of the office, then the president, or vice president, will not give me a warning. I will mention another office that will be one of the points of the agenda later but then not to report back, that actually the two institutions most worked on education are the Office of Public Procurement and the State Audit. If we had really been walking and educated and educateing people, correcting mistakes that are not the result of bad intentions or the desire to conceal, but simply insufficient education for the conduct of the job. And not to abuse the time today which is precious given the number of participants reported, I will say that I am particularly grateful to this report and for another reason. In fact, I finally got the opportunity to see the report on the financial operations of the Auto-road Zagreb – Macelj which showed that this company successfully operates, to make a profit, that those data that speak about 17% increase in traffic annually also lead us into a situation to be satisfied. But it proves to us that we are rightly dissatisfied that unfortunately neither the Government as a 49% owner responded to the 17% toll collection on that highway, which is 74% higher than all other tolls per km in the Republic of Croatia. We're not gonna change anything. We do not have the possibility of influence, but additional arguments for our demands both towards the Government and the Autoroad Society for a different approach to the price setting of highways. Once again, I thank both the review and I especially commend and the field associates not to list what we have really learned over the past years and have learned a lot and done our jobs together for mutual satisfaction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1115	Thank you, Mr. Representative. Next reported is Mr Miranda Mrsic, but I don't see him in the assembly or behind the pillar, and then we'll move on to the next one reported for an individual debate, and that's Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1116	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Yesterday I was talking about a budget revision for clear this 2006. Today I'm going to make a connection, expand some of the thesis. What I want to start with and what I consider most important are these assessments that the main book, the auxiliary books and financial reports do not provide full information in the total public debt, assets, obligations, claims, sources of ownership are more valuable claims from the Tax Administration and the Customs Administration. It is then said that not all the implementing rules which have been laid down by the provisions of the Budget Act have been adopted are not consolidated financial reports, etc. etc. Then, I would especially like to refer to this part of the report where I literally quote that according to the Public Debt Management and the European Integration and International Financial Relations Administration, the finance ministry totaled EUR 60 billion at the end of 2006 without guarantees and potential liabilities, and according to its accounts and financial statements, it amounted to HRK 60 billion. No liabilities were recorded for vault records of $12.2 billion, loans from international financial institutions of €6.8 billion, London Club 1.7 billion, the Paris Club of 1.2 billion, and liabilities from foreign foreign loans of €6 billion. All 28 billion kunas. So somewhere, gentlemen lost that 28 billion kuna, which is approximately equivalent to 4 billion euros. Nobody said it, I didn't say it yesterday, and I never said that any of those 4 billion euros were taken, alienated. But simply that debt is not recorded in one prescribed legal way. It is a sign that the service that we may most praise the Ministry of Finance does not work the way it should work that work does not work ideally, that they were not in the meantime parliamentary elections, so that would be a reason to simply resolve those functions, not to say that someone similar to the failure made at the local level. That someone not to lose his job, but maybe he'd end up in jail. The third thing I want to touch is these concessions, where literally in this report it says that concession revenues in the State budget for 2006 are planned in the amount of 310 million kuna, and are reached in the amount of 302 million kuna. I said yesterday, I'll do it again. We little people, let's say we peel our skins off to craftsmen. We charge the people every liter of water, the feces that go away, every kilowatt. Soon we will charge them air, and Croatian tycoons or foreigners who privatised Croatian hotels, but also agricultural combinations use hundreds and hundreds of hectares of so-called. tourism or agricultural land and no one to pay for a single lip. And then a man asks himself a question. Is that possible? Why is that? When the state, when the Parliament, I don't know, will pass the law on tourist land that Mr Ostojko Ostojic mentioned among other things, which he proposed there sometime in 2000, according to one other Ostojić from the IDS, Mr Veljko Ostojic. When are we just gonna pass that law? When will the State's Attorney's Office be activated on this issue? I'm afraid politics has no intention of passing one such law, because as I just said both left and right on the payroll are the largest of these Croatian companies. In this country, respected gentlemen have become so subtle that even former judges of the Constitutional Court write legislative proposals on so-called technological units where this land should belong to existing owners or hotel houses. I believe it's one of the important issues, that it should be settled because of that capital itself. Why? So we can invest, but no one has the right to give that same capital a single lip. On the other hand, these signs appear on Saturday’s morning text that threatens the country to run out of hundreds of millions of square meters, so to speak. tourism land because the principle of trust in land books takes effect in 2010. I said it wouldn't happen yesterday at the pay phone, provided the state started litigation against the hotelers, but also the owner of the agricultural land and made a note of the dispute. The land today is worth 20.30 billion euros. The question is, two questions are here. which is fate, so-called fate. unrated land that has entered the elaborate of converted hotel houses and even registered to a number of companies that are privatised in the meantime, which is the fate of so-called. I don't know how many years they've been using these hotel houses and for these camps and for those complexes to pay anyone a single kuna. It's like we're running politics in this country for those who have, so let's just say they're in charge of this country, so let's let them have more. It's the same thing, gentlemen, with agricultural land. It's simply a matter that needs to be resolved. Let's not let the state act like Swiss cheese, like a sieve. But for who? Not for that poor girl, but that's how she works for the elite elite. It doesn't work as a country where it doesn't pay for a pensioner who lives on two or three thousand kunas but works that way for those who show dividends of 100, 200, 500 or 800 million kuna. And I argue that this cannot be done unless there is a clear unequivocal political will for it, and many of them are not from Croatia, even if it is less important now. If someone came, invested money, for example, took over the Adriatic, Crikvenica, made a commitment to creditors of 400 million kuna, someone should be held as a little water on his palm, but that does not mean that anything is necessary for nothing, too. Only two sentences on financial capacity. 84.3% of the financial capacity of waste in the country. The local self-government of these 126 cities plus 429 municipalities have 10.7%, so they control or have or spend it, and the City of Zagreb has 5%. In one word, local self-government currently has 15.7% of that fiscal capacity, but real decentralisation will not be until local self-government with the City of Zagreb controls at least 33% of the financial capacity. I'd like the state's auditors to join the D.A.'s office. Today I read an amazing title from "Blash" involving 7,000 and 200 soldiers, and there were 7 thousand people with disabilities. So what kind of crazy country are we? What's just going on here? And for the end. It's getting less and less clear, the state's irregularities. Where's the robbery? Robbery in public procurement and these companies from Ina, insurance, roads, shipyards, etc. Public procurement is at this point 35 billion kuna. The secret purchase is about 550 million kuna, which is probably related to the Ministry of Defense. Nobody does that either. We deal here with how many ministers spend on representation cards instead of dealing with these life issues. And for the end of another sentence. There will be less and less problems in the government, the growing problem we will have to deal with will be in these public enterprises. It's not a privilege today to be a tourism minister with 220 million kuna, but it's a privilege to be director of ACI or one JANAF. It is not a privilege to be a minister of the economy, but it is a privilege to be at the head of a Croatian insurance company where 80,000 kuna is paid and where the director smokes 500 or more kuna cigarettes at the expense of taxpayers. These are those questions that we would also have to deal with more in the future than we do with how many ministers I don't know about the Kuna on the ministerial card, I regret that we don't have it either.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1117	I thank Mr. Agent Caine. It is good that the State Audit is overseeing so many different state institutions, so it opens up a wide-ranging thematic space for discussion to MPs. The following was reported for individual debate, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1118	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. At the beginning of my debate today, I would first like to correct one mistake that I made last night, interpreting a large number of data from the State Audit findings when I interpreted the data relating to the issued guarantees of units of local and regional self-government on page 69 of the report as data on issued state guarantees in favour of local and regional self-government, which was warned by my colleague, Ivkovic, and I thank him for giving me the opportunity to correct the interpretation of a large amount of information. However, my colleague Ivkovic's assessment remains that only in the County of Međimurje was a unit of local self-government and regional self-government to their companies and institutions, because it was obviously not necessary or they did not seek it. What I would like to stress today in my debate and look back at 18 users of the state budget who received a conditional opinion, I will only comment on what concerns the Ministry of Defence. In fact, the State Audit gave the ministry conditional opinion on 4 and 5, respectively, for very important reasons. The first reason is that the ministry's financial plan is not comprehensive, i.e. the non-planned revenues of as much as 94 million kuna and expenditures of 86 million in one calendar year alone. The second reason for the conditional opinion is that the ministry has not completed the full list of assets. The third reason is that without conducting public procurement procedures, the services of ongoing and investment maintenance of construction facilities worth 42 million kuna have been provided. Trade goods, therefore, not military equipment, but trade goods worth 28 million kuna and imagine, cleaning and washing services worth 2.5 million kuna. I simply cannot believe that even planning or carrying out a public procurement procedure for trade goods, cleaning and washing services in that ministry could not be implemented, planned in accordance with the Public Procurement Act. Finally, the purchase of 5 armored vehicles worth 3.5 million kuna, for which the ministry did not receive prior consent from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It's a really big but important ministry. And justifying this finding, some colleagues said it was better than it was years ago. Is that really how it is? On page 3 of this report on the Ministry of Defence, the state audit reminds that several findings and recommendations were given to the ministry for 2005, and some of them were completed or carried out, but three were not. And they remind us that this ministry did not implement the recommendations they received in 2005: 1. that certain revenues and receipts and expenditures and expenditures planned to settle these revenues were not planned. Thus, in 2005 the situation of income and expenditure planning was about the same. A year after that, the same remark again. 2. not completed the full annual list of assets in accordance with the provisions of the Regulation. Two years consecutively the same remark. In 2006. The ministry hasn't finished the list of assets yet. And the 3rd procurement procedures have not been fully implemented in accordance with public procurement regulations. And in 2006, part of the public procurement to that ministry was not implemented in accordance with the law. When you carefully read the ministerial statement on each of the remarks received in 2006 it starts about as follows. The ministry accepts the findings of the state audit, but with reason and now there are several reasons or justifications why what they received or what the audit found was not in accordance with the law. Of these many claims, we accept the finding, but I would single out only one, not because of 2006, but because of the next year when we will consider business in 2007 so that there is no confusion. Therefore, as the Ministry of Defence has shown, the objections made to the State Public Procurement Audit. The Ministry accepted the findings of the State Audit Office and stated that the competent Agency for Material Resources is obliged to carry out the procurement of goods, promotional materials, part of technical investment maintenance services of construction facilities and cleaning and washing services in accordance with the provisions of the Public Procurement Act. In 2006, the ministry gave an indication. I would like to believe that in 2007, in the finding of the State Audit, there will be no claim that the Ministry accepts the findings of the State Audit, but, since they have committed to the competent administration within that ministry, it has to act in accordance with the Public Procurement Act. And there's no third year of justification, we accept it again. Speaking and comparing the findings of Croatia's state audit, counterpart Hebrang said he was also monitoring the situation in the Member States of the European Union. He commended that 50% of state budget users got a clean five, and 50% pass a three, he said it turned it into school grades. And he found that there are probably those in the countries of the European Union who are overcoming us in such affairs. It's possible. I do not follow the affairs so much in Europe and it is possible that in some or some of the members of the European Union there are worse findings of state audits. But I'm sure, believe me, I'm 100% sure that when things like that happen, they follow shifts or resignations. And since there has been a change in the heads of these ministries in the meantime, I would really like to see the next situation. That the current police minister or police were ordered to investigate and determine whether this was the Ministry of Defence, which he was leading until yesterday, any illegal acts or criminal acts. I want to believe that this order would then be consistently fulfilled and that there would be no possible conflict of interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1119	I thank Mr. Representative. The next sixteenth reported in a row is Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. After that, four other individual discussions reported and two by five minutes on behalf of the club. Here you go, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1120	I thank the esteemed Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, the respected chief state auditor. It is clear that spending on state money should always be under public increase. And as far as I'm concerned, there's never enough debate about him. So clean and so that those who manage state money may either not be put to sleep, so that they do not carry out what they should be there for. Or they don't play too much, and then we get 50 grand of coffee and stuff. I'd like to remind you, this is a discussion of the review's findings for the past year. She's a little late on the agenda. But it probably couldn't have happened before. Probably couldn't have done it before, given all the circumstances surrounding the election. And now we are in a paradoxical situation to discuss the application of the Public Procurement Act that is no longer in force, and by the way for the new Public Procurement Act, the situation from a few days ago, not all implementing rules have been passed. I don't know if anything's changed in the meantime. In my presentation, I will look back on the section concerning the Ministry of Defence, which many of my predecessors have referred to. The Department of Defense's audit seems to me somewhere since '98. When she first entered that closed system, she cheered up there until 2002, and then she was no longer so under the public's glass because of these findings, the situation had improved. I also know about how big and complicated the system is. I'm familiar with the internal relations and powers of the structural units, the intertwined relationship between the ministry of headquarters, etc., so I'll probably make some systematic proposals and I won't look much at the details. Therefore, there is a revision of the fourteen pages in this regard and cannot give a decent picture of the processes that occur in such a system. It is a bigger problem for me that the ministry does not give me the right proposals and solutions and what Mr. Lesar was supposed to do. I've got a fence. Perhaps in the ministry's statement, it is something broader and it has not entered this summary report, but I will point to two things. The first is the revision, i.e. the first observation of the audit on the list of the Ministry's assets, i.e. to be precise and to show the property of the Republic of Croatia which is managed and used by the Ministry of Defence. And that finding has been repeated for several years. In my view, the problem is that the Ministry of Defence manages the property that should be managed but also the large assets that should not be managed in any way. In my view, therefore, apartments that are not official apartments, garages, business premises, unspectived and abandoned military property should no longer be managed by the Ministry of Defence but should be transferred to the Central State Property Office which is not so teamed as to manage it. And it's these jobs that, in terms of management of that kind of property that suffers that system and it can't work well, and then you always have this kind of libi in response, you can't get there, there's no time and there's no frame that's partly but only partially correct. This ping-pong has been going on for ten years now, the revision is recording it neatly, everyone is defending themselves that they don't have powers, they haven't done this, they haven't done what they did and the state is losing money and that closed circle needs to break up as soon as possible. In the end, the audit stated that the shifts were made but insufficiently, a quote of the revision. Therefore, I think that both in the position of the audit and in the position of the ministry, the emphasis should be placed on the transfer of management of assets that are not in the function of defence to the Central State Property Office or to the Government or to anyone. However, too much time has passed in this regard for various reconstructions, teamsings, reorganizations, etc. The reuse of military property mentioned here also has no direct link to the removal of irregularities regarding the records because if it is not registered then you cannot re-apply. So it's probably recorded somewhere, but it's not the way it's supposed to be. Also, this law on the re-use and closure of those properties, it has not been passed and I don't think it's in the process either. The second part of the problem that the revision points to is the organisation of the procedure but I would also say public procurement systems. The audit's good to see the problem, but I think there's a problem in the system here. Therefore, it should be said that it is a system with several centres of responsibility which is also distributed both territorially and organisationally. So we have part of the procurement that takes place in the ministry and in the supply service. Then we have within the ministry but within the framework of other services and administrations that are at the headquarters of the ministry. Then we have the part that happens within the ministry within the administration and the services that are on the ground in the county, so then we have the fourth part that happens in the main headquarters, the fifth part of the logistics command, the sixth part of the branch command, the seventh part at the lower and the eighth part at even lower levels. So it's a rather complicated system that if it was set differently probably wouldn't work, but the problem is to control such a system and I don't think it's the best way to set it up. And then it happens to us that in one process they get regular, let's call it public, there can be eight to ten formation units of the ministry, and such a process can be quite transparent and there are no objections to such ones in general. But on the other hand, it may also happen that we have a procedure under Article 6, so to public and secret procurement, to obtain multimillion-dollar values that end in a few days to make things legal again and not to establish irregularities because indeed no regulation has been broken. Why? Because then the Public Procurement Act, which has been discussed in 2006, did indeed not apply in one part of this large dispersed system, so many things were resolved by the application of Article 6. However, by applying Article 6 there is not one when you refer to Article 6 there is no other regulation that regulates what is outside of Article 6 and then there is nothing to violate. So there are simply no other regulations that regulate what the law prescribes and since there are no regulations which therefore replaces there is nothing to break, and then there is too much freedom for people in the system to carry out supply and of course it can have different consequences. It may sometimes apply stricter provisions in terms of transparency control but may also not apply any provisions in terms of control and transparency. The additional problem is also that, in most cases, it is about procedures with a certain degree of secrecy, and then it is not possible to control the public as well as to call it a corrective factor, so that sometimes the only public is actually the Supreme Commander. And the general view is that the Ministry of Defence is now more incarcerated to the public than it was in the 2000-2003 period are journalists, so that's what journalists are for. So what's the solution now? I think the solution is, therefore, that the Government prescribes its regulation, not the Ministry's guidance, but a government regulation that would prescribe the procurement procedure when it comes to military equipment and all other types of procurement under a level of secrecy, and that it is possible, of course, to make some kind of control that I propose to be at parliamentary level, which is also kind of stated by the Supreme Commander. The third problem is, therefore, the application of the maintenance contract from previous years. So it's absolutely clear to me that the end of the calendar year doesn't stop life and work, soldiers need to eat, buildings have to be maintained, letters have to be written on office material. And according to my knowledge, the problem is that there's a lack of supply service teams and maybe not enough... coordination of all who need to prepare proposals. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, a competition for such species has been mentioned here, which was annulled by the Office for Public Procurement. In any event, sanctions should be imposed at least that the level of the head of the department would be the one that should indeed be removed in such a case. So, I'd like to talk about reforms, mostly I've been thinking about reducing. In this case, I would step up the procurement service with new departments and the opportunity to do so is also the adoption of a new Regulation on organisational organisation. In any case, it is also necessary to establish an organisational unit to control decentralised procurement. It shall be carried out most in the armed forces and in one piece in the MRLs, and this is precisely why there is no unique record of what is stated and/or audits. So that whole can be part of the defence inspectorate or as an independent whole because it's too much out of control. I'm not saying it's out of the law but it's out of control anyway. I believe it would then be less written about poor maintenance, lobbying, etc. And here I'm saying, the opportunity for this is already being adopted by the Ministry's Internal Design Regulation. Mr. Hebrang in his presentation used grades from one to five to sort of define, evaluate the results of the audits, and then I can try that. So when we talk about progress, some have managed to get into second gear, some are still in first gear, some are still in reverse, but we're far from that famous fifth speed we're looking for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1121	I thank Mr. Representative. We will continue on our application for the hearing of Mr Davor Bernardic, who is now entering the hall. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1122	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. So here, reading this report, I have to realize that a relatively high-quality job has been done, although there are some things missing about income, expenditure items and property, which other MPs have been talking about. But by carefully reading the figures, they are there, they do not lie, but in accounting terms we saw from Mr Cain's debate that the state of external debt, i.e. A third of the foreign debt could be hidden, but could not be hidden from the State Audit Office. But by reading these figures, I express one great concern for what is happening. In fact, if we compare the chain indexes of budget growth compared to last year, the following can be concluded. In 2002, compared to 2001, the budget grew 22%. And that was the biggest growth of the budget. That's when the economy developed the fastest. This trend continued both in the following year and in the year after and in 2004. However, for the last two years, according to the report and the state audit, there has been a lack of charge, i.e. a thin charge of the state budget. That's what gentlemen need to worry about. What I have to say is that somewhere before the end of the fiscal year, the government gives certain guidelines and also for local self-government units. These fiscal guidelines also contain certain things related to the expectation of income items related to income tax, which is between 6% and 7% somewhere. But in the last two years the realization of that item itself is somewhere at 1-2%, it's statistics, I can't intonate anything else, I can just talk about statistics. What matters is that from these things it can be concluded that income does not grow, i.e. It's growing badly. And that's what he says in favor and real salary growth compared to last year's only 0.5%. At the same time, however, the State Audit Office shows that the profits have increased. The profit that is realised and the tax profit that has been paid has increased. This only speaks of that and when the Act on the redistribution of funds from units of local self-government was drawn up. On the one hand, the item was increased with respect to income tax and part of the income of local units was taken from the profit tax. It is evident that the state will sign a plus at the end of this year. But profit, it can grow for a certain time, profit can grow as income increases, profit can grow as wages grow, but if they stagnate, then neither profit can grow long. What's important is to say that it's precisely from these arguments and these arguments are these as I put them out here, that for the first time economic growth in this year is less than inflation. It was the last time in '99, that the state budget was thin and weakly loaded, that the wages were actually almost not growing, little bit growing, practically stagnating. It is therefore particularly important to have the budget available rationally. And this finding of the State Audit where problems have been diagnosed, and problems are related to the deviation from planned expenditures, which are already business and regular, problems are related to irregularities and public procurement, which are also done on a business and regular basis. However, it may be a little better than last year, and I support it, and I agree with that. And problems related to the lack of a list of state-owned property and land, which is a serious item and citizens have the right to know what all states have so that they can live better, after all we are all representatives of the Croatian National Assembly and we should be in the interest that every Croatian citizen lives better and that Croatia is making progress. And what's the problem is that there is no continuous sanctions for those who misusing budgets. And in that spirit of reason and mind, I ask you to support the SDP Club's proposals and the follow-up measures under this Report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1123	Thanks to Mr. Representative, we have a correction to the incorrect assumption. Mr. Filipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1124	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. I would correct the inaccuracy of a colleague who said that the budget grew significantly faster from 2000 to 2003 than it did in previous years, meaning 2003 to 2007. And he said it points to budget discipline and better tax revenues, etc., etc. I argue that this data only indicates that the budget has grown significantly faster than the gross domestic product of the Republic of Croatia has grown significantly in this period, and that in fact the external debt, i.e. the debt of the state budget, while data that speak from 2004 to 2007 indicate that it is a balanced budget. It is also possible to take note, by combining data on the structure of total income and the receipt of the state budget, that they are already significantly higher, that there is a significantly higher share in the income structure, incomes achieved from taxes and contributions compared to 2005. Therefore, this suggests reductions, the reduction of external debt and significantly greater budgetary discipline.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1125	Time's up, time's up, time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1126	I have a violation of Rules of Procedure under Article 209 that a respected representative listens to me then he would know that I didn't say that, I was talking about large indices in 2002 compared to 2001. And the breach of the Rules of Procedure consists of a representative being able to correct an incorrect claim from what is said, but if something is not spoken of then there is nothing to correct the incorrect assumption. I beg you, Vice President of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1127	We also have another breach of the Rules of Procedure sought by Mr Filipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1128	... He injured the Rules of Procedure because his colleague said that in that period when he mentioned chain indices, when he talked about growth 20%, etc. The budget, he said, was significantly more discipline in the state budget during this period. [[Specially enabled.]] Which isn't true. Because the discipline of the State budget is primarily about how much revenue has been generated in the income structure from, income from taxes and contributions, which grow significantly faster in the period 2004-2007. And that can be easily checked.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1129	Thank you very much. I ask all MPs and MPs to put up with the amendments to the Rules of Procedure when at least we try to resolve this long-standing dilemma about what is the correction of the data, which is the correction of the quote, which is the correction of the opinion, which is the correction of something that is not said? Well, at this point in time, I won't judge whether one or the other is a correction, or whether one or another is a breach of the Rules of Procedure, okay? I hope that will be clearer, and it would probably be clear that the institute is also correcting the incorrect allegations from the Rules of Procedure and we will remain in replicas. But good. Next for the debate, the next representative for the debate, which was reported, is Mrs. zastava Marija Lugarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1130	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam State Auditor, colleagues and colleagues. Here at the beginning of this debate here I would just like to note that I am somewhat sorry that this debate is here directly in the Croatian Parliament except here is now Madam Vice-President of the Government yesterday afternoon and today a good part of the debate is not listening to any minister, not one minister in the Croatian Government. I hope that the professional services of the Croatian Parliament will be provided to them if nothing else and then phonograms because usually what we are talking about here in the Croatian Parliament, this may best be seen by the answers to the parliamentary questions, mostly being entered into one ear, the other coming out, and it would not be good for what is said about the audit reports and what is found to be the control of the work done by the Government or indirectly and here, the Croatian Parliament, through the adoption of the State budget, to remain just a dead letter on paper. Because discussing these audit reports makes sense then and only if the irregularities found in the audit are corrected in the coming years and they are not repeated. But from year to year, and to be more tragic, we find almost the same irregularities in most of the same subjects. He should tell the truth for the sake of reducing the number of those with irregularities from year to year, but there are also those who are very weak in learning. I am personally saddened that among those who are weak in learning and who keep repeating irregularities and the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. In this ministry, which received one of those relatively rare ones that received a conditional opinion, all of what had been identified as irregularities for 2005 was repeated in 2006. In most cases, expenditure is still not planned and recorded on accounts prescribed by the accounting plan, which means that the funds were neither well planned nor purposely spent, and expenditure is recorded according to the principle of cash flow, which is not in accordance with the regulations, but also more importantly such illegal behaviour of the Ministry of Education is clouded by water. What that cloudy water means and makes it possible I really don't know. I hope it doesn't mean hunting in a blur, but I think it's high time after a few years of repeating one of those same irregularities that finally the Ministry of Education and Correction. The following irregularity that is repeated in this ministry is non-application... funding for the university. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If even the first years after the adoption of the Law on Higher Education could still be tolerated, I don't think we can tolerate it anymore. The team more the Ministry in its publication praises how they have implemented... financing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But according to the findings of this revision, and using President Bebić's approved phrases, those of the Ministry do not speak the truth in their publications that praise their achievements, which are obviously not achievements if they believe the State Audit. No joke aside... Funding is a legal obligation and I don't think it can be an acceptable explanation of the Ministry's guilt at universities because it's the same Ministry of Labour Control and Business. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The State audit also argued that the State budget as well as earlier years did not plan sufficient funds for subsidisation, accommodation and nutrition of students and that funds were used for other purposes. Mostly, the funds used were planned to improve student standards. Of course, it is relatively difficult to plan these funds, but I would like to warn you that on the occasion of the adoption of the State budget for 2006 I also personally submitted as well as some other MPs of the amendment to those items, warning that there will be insufficient funds. Of course, the government then deafened to it. She said it would be enough. Now we see that the government was wrong. And I hope, personally, here's the second week when we're going to make a state budget, that that scenario won't repeat itself because in a bad student standard, I don't think we can afford not to plan enough funds for basic intentions and then use non-purpose funds that are still meant to improve standards. Speaking of students and student standards. The audit office also carried out a review of student centres, most of which received conditional opinion mainly due to irregularities in the supply of food products and other foods. The purchase of groceries without valid public procurement procedures in student centres is not a novelty. In this regard, even quite large affairs in the past have been tied up because in the past some student centers have served to enrich individuals through the back of students. However, these irregularities continue to be repeated to a lesser extent. The audit also found that the Požega Student Centre showed a number of students who were granted support for private accommodation from the actual number of students who requested and received the support. This is the basis for these false data to generate additional revenue which they were not entitled to. Here, it should be said that most of the boards of directors in the student centres are appointed by the Ministry precisely for the control of business and financial operations. On this occasion, I would like to call on the Ministry of Science to finally introduce order into the student centres because it is nevertheless the Ministry that finances and finances taxpayers' money for such non-publicities and illegalities. Because if something doesn't change and the Ministry doesn't do anything or does enough, then it will also be responsible for all those violations of regulations in the student centres. Dear colleagues and colleagues are particularly tragic, but literally tragic audit findings are also those on the revision of the business of the University of Zagreb Student Assembly, which served for years as a milk cow to finance the activities of the HDZ youth. There's almost nothing wrong with the student choir. The competent authorities of the Student Assembly have not submitted reports on the spending of funds in accordance with the laws. Business books are not run according to the bookkeeping they needed, but not according to the regulations. No cash was raised from the jury's accounts without any cash registers or cash registers being established, but some bills and payments were written which were not recorded in the register's report. Then some advances were paid for official travel that had no warrants. Apparently, again, someone across the back of students from the student choir's budget filled their pockets and I think it's an absolutely inadmissible situation. But the particular problem is that all this has been done with the clearly silent consent of the competent ministry, since although I repeat the same irregularities for years, the waste and illegality of student leaders are still being financed instead of funding student projects. I hope that it will finally change and that in a few years we won't have to figure out the same thing again. Because it really doesn't make sense to find the same irregularities year after year. During the reporting period, the Audit Office made an audit of the project of the education and education system, which seems to me to be the first revision of such a state project, although the audit in that project did not find any significant irregularities, it argued that the amount needed for the implementation of the project was not determined as well as the amount of funding according to sources of funding. It certainly is not a good practice because we cannot effectively implement activities and projects without planning financial resources for their implementation, because then, of course, it results in unintended spending of funds and then it brings me back to the beginning of my debate, there is no good planning, non-purpose spending, and then a lot of work for the State Audit again. I personally support these State Audit Office reports, but I think we really need to do a lot more than just finding irregularities, so I hope that the conclusions will be supported. I see that around some and there is a consensus especially on those that these reports are being delivered to the competent authorities to determine possible penalties or infringements, but I hope that the conclusion proposed by the SDP club that says it is in charge of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to deliver within 60 days to the Croatian Parliament a programme for the long-term removal of irregularities repeated by the established audit, because it is the only way we can reduce irregularities in this financial operation of our ministries and other state bodies. I wonder colleagues and colleagues if we are responsible for the adoption of the state budget, if we have sworn as advocates that we will control how these funds are spent, how the taxpayers' funds are spent, that in this sense our responsibility will be for these irregularities if we do not in any way force the Government to adopt and propose to us a programme of measures to end with these illegalities and irregularities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1131	Thank you very much. We have one correction. Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1132	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague said that the Student Assembly in Zagreb was a cow of museums of HDZ youth. Not only is it an incorrect allegation but it's an untrue, malicious allegation. No evidence. If you have any knowledge, go to the attorney's office and report it. The other thing, it doesn't say that the milk cow is a young HDZ youth. Don't make it up, lie about it. It's not the Victor Lenac through which the SDP pulled hundreds of millions of euros. It's not Victor Lenac. And secondly, it's not even the Communists' alliance, it's not anymore, and SCOY can run a student assembly, leave the students alone.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1133	Let's concentrate on the correction, and obviously neither the SCOJ nor Victor Lenac are on the agenda. It's Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1134	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm going to be talking exclusively about the audit at the Vjesnik house because that finding is such that it really needs to be talked about. When the SDP club submitted to this Assembly in 2006 an interpretation of the government's responsibility for the situation in the "Vjesnik", HDZ's majority refused to do so. Now that the audit's come up, we can see why. So when we put up with the interpretation, we knew the situation in the Vjesnik house was bad, but that was so terrible as the revision describes it, we didn't dream of it. HDZ knew that at the time, so he refused the interpretation. "Vjesnik" is owned by the Republic of Croatia. The government is responsible for the state of the Vesnik, and this finding of the audit is not just a picture of the Vesnik, it's a picture of the government itself. Well, let's see what the review says, how it's done in the Vjesnik house, and what the government is responsible for. The revision says: The company did not adopt an internal body act, the systematization of jobs with the required number of employees and qualifications, and a description of the jobs of the individual job. There is no need for professional preparation and work experience, as well as the competence and responsibilities of employees. No internal control system has been established in society, nor has a restructuring programme been adopted. Chaos. It's a mess. But as we'll see, a very expensive mess. During the period of the revision, funds from the state budget for the issue of the newspaper "Vjesnik" and the restructuring of the company amounting to over 75 million kuna were identified from the State budget for the issue of the list "Vjesnik" and the restructuring of the company. The government's restructuring money got, you think the restructuring's been done? It didn't occur to them. They'd rather pile up their losses. So the review says the company shows a loss from the establishment that was shown by the end of 2005 at a total amount of 195 million kuna. Why would they even try not to make any losses when the government has a lot of money every year in the Vesnik taxpayers' money that you imagine doesn't even care about their real estate. The revision says in the business books and financial reports of the society is not shown the value of the land of the area you will not believe, 19 thousand 977 square meters on the location of Zagreb, Slavonska Avenue. Watch out they forgot to sign up 20 grand squares of their property. They don't know it's their property, they didn't even put it in the property. Now let's see how much that forgetful society costs to taxpayers. The 2005 financial plan says the revision, the revenues from the Vesnik list were planned to amount to $42 million, which is less than the plan for 12 million and 500 thousand kuna or 29.5%. However, at the same time, revenues from the State budget were planned to amount to 15 million kuna, which is 15 million kuna or 100% more than the plan. Ladies and gentlemen, that's 30 million kuna a year. 30 million kuna. For this money a good school, solid kindergarten or equipped home of health can be built. Now that we're discussing a budget that will come to order, we're going to ask the amendments to be sent to a society like this that doesn't even know how to sign up, to build a few kindergartens, and we're going to see if you accept those amendments or not. Because to the government, obviously, what's up with them to school, to kindergarten, they prefer 30 million tax money, it's money for us, the citizens of this country, to donate to the Vesnik. So the logical question is why. So why is it that the government gives 30 million a year to the Vesnik, we'll come up with an answer to that question. But let's first see how this society plans its business, because it really needs to be seen. A profit of 57,000 kuna has been planned, beware, and a loss of 19 million and 500 thousand kuna has been shown. So they made a mistake in the plan for a straight 19 million and 450 thousand kuna. Well, that should be a mistake. How did they plan to invest in long-term assets? In 2004, they planned 29 million kunas and made 5 million kunas. So 24 million kunas less than the plan they made. Well, then in 2005, they tried to be more realistic in planning, so they planned 6 million 450 thousand kunas and made 16 million kunas. So 150 percent more than the plan. It's really art so wrong. They had nothing better to do with human policy. In 2004 and 2005, the company said that the employment relationship was founded by 157 employees, but in March 2005, an extra employee programme was adopted, and severance payments were paid. You can imagine that now. So they knew they had extra employees, that they had to be taken care of with the severances, but they hired them before that 157. Maybe they've paid off the severances and just paid off the team they hired online. In the end, why not do so, it was all covered anyway by the Government with budgets, by your money from the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. With your money. Now, let's see how much of that newspaper is printing in the first place. How much of that is sold? In 2004, 2 million 470 thousand copies or 36.6 total printed copies were sold and 4 million copies were left unsold or 63.4% of total printed copies were printed. 2005 is even worse. In that year, only 35% of total printed copies were sold, and the remittende was 65%. 65%. They print newspapers to throw them in the trash or recycle. There's no such thing in the world. Now. After this phenomenal business, the audit logically concludes that the economic indicators of the company in 2005 were worsened compared to 2004. Disturbed by such a state of administration decides to save the matter, so some properties are leased. And this business space in Petra Preradovic Square and business premises in Slavonska Avenue. It's the ones they forgot to sign up for property. E. Of course you're guessing that these business premises are leased without a previous public tender which, of course, is not in accordance with the law. Eh, when they saw that out of such renting space, even if it was and will not get away with it illegally, then they're going into a rescue list. So the revision says, during 2004 and 2005, the company performed a redesign and promotion of the list, a change in the regulation and increased the number of employees and external associates in order to increase the sale of the list. The measures implemented have not produced results. Costs of employees, external associates, printing, distribution, promotions grew significantly faster than revenues achieved. So in 2005, the loss was only increased. So it'd be better if they didn't do anything. That they didn't go to redesign or prom. It would be best if they hadn't even printed the paper, if they hadn't tried or sold them. That the whole administration, that rotation paper, used it to make paper airplanes, to shoot each other. The effect would be exactly the same, but at least it would cost less, because this is costing taxpayers these great efforts. E, for such a model business should be rewarded by those who lead the business. Now comes the pianteria. The president's salary was agreed at 22,000 kuna per month, net salary, increased for the job internship and a reward for the results achieved. A reward for the results achieved. This is the kind of business the government considers the result and then rewards it. The current salary of the prime minister is 22,000 and 500 thousand kuna. Well, now, I wonder, does the Prime Minister know that the Director's salary is that high? I'm sure he does. Vesnik is owned by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So why does he allow it? Why is he paying him that kind of salary? That's not hard to find out. Just try to read "The Vesnik," just open it up, and you'll get it all figured out. Thus, even in North Korea, a leader is not glorified as he is glorified in "The Vesnik" Prime Minister Sanader from the list to the list, from number to number, day to day. Good servants should pay well to serve you better. That's what the government is doing right now. The only problem is he's not paying them with party money. He's paying taxpayers' money. Money for you who neither buys nor reads "The Vesnik". You don't buy it or read it because you know he's the most common HDZ party bulletin, but that's worth nothing to you, my fellow citizens. Your money was bought either by you or not by the Vesnik, one way or another goes to the Director's salary and editor-in-chief of that newsletter. It's illusory to suggest the government's interpretations of responsibility for the disorder in "The Vesnik". The HDZ and its coalition partners refuse such interpretations. They support this mess. It's their own mess. You're paying for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1135	Thank you. We have three corrections. First Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1136	Thank you, Mr. President. The inaccuracy of fellow Stazic is that the government is responsible for the situation in Vesnik. The Vesnik has its own responsible persons, has its own leadership, and they are responsible for everything that happens in the Vesnik himself. But the other thing is it's obvious that you who, according to a journalist's statement at the time of Racan's government, have been editing in many media, which hurts you, obviously, that "The Vesnik" writes and that's why you crash into "The Vesnik". That's the only reason you're going down on one of these media like "The Vesnik." And besides, you yourself admitted your speech, which made it clear why you're going down on a newspaper. I think the public knows what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1137	Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Kruno Markovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1138	Well, here's what I'm going to do, and I'm going to fix it incorrectly. It's about the planes. If it wasn't exactly true that the effect was the same that they were doing the planes, and there... That he didn't. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I have to say that the Vesnik has dared through his journalists to analyse SDP's work especially in this pre-election programme. And if he were to celebrate the character and the work of the SDP, the situation would certainly be more important. I think we'd applaud with our losses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1139	Correction of the incorrect quote, Mr. Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1140	Thank you, Mr. President. I would have corrected my colleague, Stazic, a great expert on the Vesnik. For those of you who aren't here in the Assembly, he talks about the "Walker" every year, just like this. Thus, his persuasion is as it is. So I'm correcting the incorrect assumption that the press "Vjesnik" has support for what it is, as it promotes this government. So I don't understand what else the Vesnik would do if he didn't pass on between the other and the effects of this government that you can't challenge. And that's why it bothers you as such. And if you're in contradiction, that's proof. So you say no one reads it or needs to read it. Thus, if no one reads how one can glorify someone if no one reads it. So what would be the reason then for the prime minister to pay. Well, just a little bit, which would be a reason for the prime minister to pay for those newspapers that glorify him and no one reads them, please. Therefore, I suggest that it would be good for some MPs to make their applicants fly planes, not to say what they say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1141	Thank you very much. It's Madam Representative Tatjana Šimac Bonačić's turn. She's gone. He's losing his right to debate this agenda point. We're moving to a five-minute debate on behalf of the clubs. The first is in front of the HNS club, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1142	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. In this final debate, I will not discuss the report but rather the proposed conclusions made by the representatives' clubs on the report. So far, we have three suggestions for conclusions and there's a fourth that hasn't been divided, I've just been reported. In fact, the Croatian People's Party club has already offered at the beginning of the debate yesterday the conclusion that we accept the report that the National Attorney's Office is sending those findings that they received an unfavourable assessment and that we oblige the State's Attorney to report to us within six months. The Croatian Democratic Community club offers something similar in its conclusions, but not only those ten unfavourable opinions but says a factual full report. I didn't understand if all 556 or these 455 with parole plus ten with unfavourable. And the SDP club in its 4th point also points out that it would go towards the State's Attorney's Office but we differ within a period, they proposed 90 days and we proposed six months. If we can get all 556 hits from the State's Attorney's office and ask them to give each individual a six-year term, not six months. I want to remind you and explain why we only suggested these ten unfavourable grades. Namely, when the State Audit has completed its report, it delivers its report to the State's Attorney's office and they already have it. We don't have to impose on them again, or that we are now forwarding the same report to the State's Attorney's Office because the State Audit has already done so. It is our proposal to refer these ten to the State's Attorney's Office and request a report, and if the State's Attorney's Office finds this 455 with a conditional opinion of any of the elements of the need to take action or any of the research actions or anything else, they will act by law. And that's why we don't need to re-transmit complete material. Why the ten or the ten with the unfavourable? Because it's impenetrable, the worst grade, and I think if we insist on all 465 it would turn out, that we're actually going back to the old practice of large numbers of small impact. And in the end, who are you who got an unfavourable opinion. The town of Zlatar, the municipalities of Bibinje, Kula Norinska, Povljana, Sopije, Kapelcom d.o.o. from Kapela, Regional Grand Market Matulji, Velički komunalac – Velički komunalac, Tourist Board of the city of Vinkovaca and the University of Zagreb Student Assembly, if I have well copied from the findings. To act as principledly as last year is proof that the leader is one of these ten members of our party, that there is no confusion. And that's why we think we should do what we did last year. And please, I'd really like to pray if we can get all three clubs that we've given about similar conclusions to agree on. Six months for me is appropriate, but with an emphasis on the State's Attorney's office's obligation to brief us on these ten unfavourable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1143	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Krono Markovinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1144	I have to correct the incorrect assumption because we could almost believe it, says big numbers a little bit of impact. I will prove that it is not true at all because this Parliament, two-and-a-half years ago, supported an investigative committee that came out of number two on number one, an investigative committee when we talked about Mr. Radiir Cacic, and the effect in two-and-a-half years wasn't, was nothing. So, a small number, one man, the effect of no big numbers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1145	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Madam Representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1146	Thank you. Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Now, I'm going to use these five minutes to say once again on behalf of our club that the audit has done a good and quality job, that it is becoming more and more not just a supervisory institution but an educational institution, because we see that the situation in the audited entities is still improving year after year. Our club representatives warned through this rather lengthy debate that those parts of the audited entities report, where certain irregularities have been identified, and that they also refer to bad planning, to recording the entire assets, to overcoming the planned funds, or to notifying the part of the commitments that occurred in the financial year, and thus we also said in our presentation on behalf of the club that this could significantly affect the data that the Ministry of Finance shows us as a budget deficit, so it is probably bigger than it is officially shown. We also pointed out the non-compliance of credit-related records because in two different records the difference is as much as 28 billion kuna. We also pointed out the ineffectiveness of the collection and control of such charges through concessions and through the supervision of the dedicated or the absence of supervision of non-intentional spending of funds relating to support. Irregularities in public procurement procedures have become a general place to deal with state audits and indeed something needs to be done. For several years now, drug procurement, orthopaedic aids and vaccines have been involved in this with growing amounts. And indeed, as long as we want this to no longer appear in the State Audit reports, we either need to change the law or change the method of supplying medicines. And now, in the end, let me just say that, in front of us, there are already three versions of the conclusions in writing, they are, as my colleague Lesar said at certain points, identical, in some cases different, but we have suggested that such a report be accepted, that similar or similar to that of the HDZ Representatives' Club, that reports be delivered to the competent institutions, in order to determine possible criminal and criminal acts and that the state's attorneys' office within a certain time, we can also agree to deliver a report on the measures implemented. But we are also proposing something that should be done by the government and we think it should be accepted because then there would be less irregularities in the next findings of the state audit. And that within 60 days or if the Government commits to another deadline that, more appropriate, it can do so, to provide us with a programme of measures for the long-term removal of irregularities that are constantly occurring in some audited entities, and this may mean changing certain laws, and that through the State Property Management Office, we provide us with the current list of state-owned assets or in the use of state-owned property, and that by the end of the year we try to enroll the entire state-owned property in land-based books through the State-owned office and that we have the ultimate state-owned status, so that we can control it, that we can manage it through one normal economic management and certain revenues into the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1147	Thank you very much. And on behalf of the HDZ Club. Mr. Representative Andrew Hebrang, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1148	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. In the final word, I would refer to the proposed conclusions, we can accept the proposal of my colleague Lesar that we should not direct everything to the state's attorney's office, but only those 10 who have received an unfavourable opinion, although we thought that a lot of cases could be found among others for the state's attorney, but because of the simplicity of the procedure, if the state's attorney is going to comb everything else, and I believe that we can, we are, red already, and I've just started, my lamp is red too soon, so I protest, thank you. So, of course, assuming that the state's attorney's office is going to review the entire audit report, I'm sure we can accept and modify our conclusion that the reference applies to the state's attorney's office only to this unfavourable opinion of ten entities. They would not agree with the SDP's proposal that the government should adopt some new measures programmes because this means that the government is some kind of a responsible factor for the negatives in this report. We believe that the government has done everything that needs to be done under the laws, and we are proving that by finding exactly the state audit for the past year, where government entities have just received passing grades, not one unfavourable, and in 50% of the cases, that assessment is also the highest rating possible. 90%, irregularities in this report refer to local administration, and this government has no specific means of leading to significant... Whereas all the measures that the Government could propose are already in the existing anti-corruption strategy, i.e. the anti-corruption programme, the Croatian economy development strategy in internal controls, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So no new correspondence of any regulation would be effective but we are to announce those entities that are assessed here by a negative assessment because their disclosure is worth more than any punishment. This means that such a announcement would also entail certain staff changes at these levels, and this is obviously the only condition that the same errors have not been repeated for years. On the whole report, I'd repeat, if 135 billion kuna traffic found this many irregularities, I think we're in a European ranking. But that's what we'll hear from the final word of Mrs. Chief Auditor. And I think that's why we need to be more objective to everything. What we have done in the last 10 years since the end of the war, I think we have been placed in line with the rules on national transport, or the money from the budget, we have achieved what other countries have already achieved in the European Union. A few words about the special part that was most about here. The Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration have done a good job, because as you can see in the conclusion, compared with recent years, they have significantly improved their business and entered the legal frameworks. Comments on the MORH account, they exist, that's for sure, but we must warn of two problems that are repeated in the management of the portfolio's finances and which are determined by the establishment of the ministry itself. Firstly, the procurement in the MRLs is not centralised as in other ministries, but is mostly decentralised, which significantly makes it difficult to control and implement procedures under all regulations, so that would be one easy circumstance. Another would be real estate management. In fact, the MORH does not have the power to fully manage its properties. As we know under the legal framework, the Central State Office for State Property Management is the one that makes lease contracts and real sales contracts on behalf of the MORH. Therefore, one part can be amnested to the expense of such legal frameworks, which of course needs to be changed so that the financial operations of the IORH can also be brought into line with other ministries which, as we have said, are in line with the Law to the greatest extent possible. And in the end, I would say, more was said about mistakes than about positive shifts. I think we should already understand once that Croatia is our child, that we participated in its birth and that, as for each of our children, we first appreciate what it has done and then we only criticise what needs to be fixed, of course in the context of objectivity, but also in the context of an objective relationship with Croatia and its institutions. Because there are difficulties in the lack of financial resources in these institutions as well as at local level. These frameworks also include this budget and this revision. There are problems with human resources solutions. The government's salaries are low. Quality people in responsible places are not easy to get. Working conditions are not yet high quality. So, with these easy circumstances, I would conclude that we believe that the Croatian state has done its utmost in these frameworks to meet the conditions of the State Audit. And finally, I thank the State Audit for this exhaustive work. We expect him again and again by the year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1149	Thank you very much. Ma'am, would you like some? Here you go. And I'm sorry, we have another IDS club, but before Mr. Cain starts exhibiting, I'd like to mention one of the problems that we have here regularly. I'm asking the MPs to sign up, we've got a procedure to bring them to the table, so I forgot to announce Mr. Cain because there was no application here. You know? So bring the application card, so there won't be any problems. This time we're going without a application. Here you go, Mr. Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1150	Mr. President, I apologize. Otherwise, I don't practice saying that I didn't give my application before, and I wouldn't have taken part in this debate now, unfortunately for the third time if I hadn't noticed that our IDS conclusions aren't still on the benches. When? You got 'em now? Now you're sharing them. Okay. If I'd said so before, we'd have arrived. Here, it's good. Nice to meet you. Still on time. So that's why I took part in this debate. Among other things, to update the problem, the tourist plot. In our conclusions we clearly accept the State Office Report, we commend the work of the State Auditor. It is clear that we suggest that it be delivered to a state attorney, etc. But among other things, to open this package of issues related to the availability of agricultural and so on. the tourist land, among other things in Articles 4, 5 and 6 of our conclusion. First, to commit the State's Attorney's Office and the Croatian Privatisation Fund to what exists. I do not know what happens there except that half of these people are in prison, to launch appropriate procedures in cases where companies have unfounded and misrepresented themselves as owners of state property or property of the Croatian Privatisation Fund which is not assessed in the value of social capital in the process of conversion and privatisation or that property is held unfounded in possession, and to initiate the necessary procedures against companies for payment obtained without grounds. That's the first conclusion. The other one. The Croatian Privatisation Fund undertakes to carry out the procedure in accordance with the provision of Article 47 for assets not included in the estimated value of enterprises. The Privatisation Act which stipulates that shares, shares, things and rights which are not assessed in the value of the social capital of a legal person under the Conversion Act are transferred to the Fund if there are no grounds for the renewal of the procedure, or if the transfer does not affect the existing whole. The Croatian Privatisation Fund is obliged to provide the Government of the Republic of Croatia with information on property owned by a state that is included in the property, which is not included in the estimated value, and is used by society, maritime good, agricultural land for the purpose of determining and the amount of compensation in the past period. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to establish, after the delivery of the information, the amount of compensation used for the property and to charge the competent authorities for the implementation of the payment of the determined fee. Here are the conclusions that we suggest they be realized. Once again, I will stress that there are thousands and thousands of hectares of so-called tourist land. Now I'm talking about camps that use the existing tourist complex, existing tourism companies, and no one for 16, 17 years has been paying any kuna fees. It is simply impossible for gentlemen without political will and I appeal that such a situation in our society is changing and that, as everyone in this country must pay what they get, so that they too finally begin to pay what is not theirs, but what must remain a state, i.e. belonging to local self-government. As for these irregularities mentioned by Mr. Hebrang, 90% of the irregularities were found in local self-government. All 10% at the state. Well clearly because 90% of the time local self-government spent on analysis of the business of 20 Croatian counties, 120 and some cities and 460 or not knowing how many municipalities. And it is understandable that, accordingly, there had to be more than an irregularity in that mass than at the state level, although I will point out once again that from year to year there are fewer irregularities in individual ministries. But more and more irregularities in certain public services, whether it is about INA, whether it is about HEP, whether it is about Croatia's insurance, we saw about the Croatian Privatisation Fund after the action “Maestra” which is left of it. I therefore call on the State Auditor to deal more with it in the future as well as with public procurement which at this time in the Republic of Croatia or rather in 2006 exceeded 35 billion kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1151	Thank you. Chief State Auditor Ms. Šima Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1152	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Well, I would normally thank all of you for supporting the State Audit Office, our profession, as well as the audit profession at all. We need it very much, because it's still a new profession, a new institution, so I think we're doing very well. All I have to say here is that right now on the ground is one hundred teams of the State Audit Office are already doing a review for 2007. I speak for that reason that our goal is not to establish irregularities. Our goal is to help make things right. The revision should be taken as an educational assistance and help to all those who wish to do better so that our regulations, laws, opinions, rules apply as correctly as possible and as best as possible. I'd just point out one more time. The audit is an institution of Parliament. On behalf of the representatives, on behalf of the Council of the City, on behalf of the Council of the Local Units, shall exercise control over the spending of public funds and the management of property. And that's why we're very glad, to support all of you, the comments, the suggestions, to record everything that's written. We'll also look for stenograms to direct our auditors, our teams, and we'll keep the audit entities informed of what we think we can do together. Very often there is talk about the Law on Public Procurement and so on. I have to stress here that there were regulations, one, the other, the third. The laws were passed twice, so we couldn't put a practice in place. A new Public Procurement Act has now been passed since the beginning of this year. Believe that now a month and my three people are participating with government institutions and with all those who have been preparing the law, who have brought it into line with European standards because it is consistent to see how we will apply it. So we will only figure out next year how it is applied, but in order for it to be applied well we must and act in a way that informs the entities of the audit. Work seminars are being held, meetings are being held to ensure that the law is applied to me as best as possible. And I believe again that there may be more irregularities, but we're going to try a lot of cooperation over the years to make them less. To apply it in the way that it should be applied. As far as Mr Hebrang is concerned, he has called us a little bit, are we comparing ourselves with the European Union? We're comparing. Our findings, our methodologies, our reports have been evaluated by the European Commission, by their institutions that have been with us for six months, but we are also comparing ourselves with their reports. We're comparing reports to reports in the section that we've been working with them on parallel audits. We have been doing efficiency audits that we have exchanged with these European Union audits, and we are doing this once a year on the Contact Committee. The European Union audit, which is always held at the beginning of the 12th month, which we have already participated in for 5.6 years. So we're exchanging experiences. We exchange experiences and individual reports. At first, we're only with Austria because it was closest to us. But now with all those of us who are interested. With Sweden working, they had a reorganization of the pension system so we watched what they were doing, how they could be done. With some other countries. Secondly, I must just point out here that I was present in the parliament of the United Kingdom, allowing the debate to take place on the largest of their ministries, the largest of their funds. It's the Ministry of Pensions, Social Affairs, Employment and Health. And if they have a slightly different system of discussion, they'll probably be with us too, given that we're still young and so forth. There's also a review committee and it's being discussed on the Committee, and I'm just going to say the questions here. It was about hiring the unemployed on a number of grounds they were getting what was happening? Retired people who were no longer alive took pensions, you know? So it was a question of these, the directors of these institutions and so on. So it wasn't without an irregularity. There wasn't a single ministry. No irregularities. But the Committee was there who invited all the directors of these institutions and discussed with them individually about all these... The Committee continues to take certain actions, measures and so on, that these irregularities are not repeated or as far as we know. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I was also somewhere in the 4th month in Great Britain. They invited us to the end of this... the project. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There was a debate on the defence ministry's report on the management of the defence property. I have to admit, there's been a lot of irregularities. It's not good to be here to talk about what's going on. Apartments that are not used, which are unrealized. Empty apartments. Rented apartments, but no adequate lease is collected. So one of the basic remarks was that there were empty apartments, I don't know, there was a question about the very center of London somewhere 14 grand. Yeah, why don't they give up to these Iraqi defenders who come back, and so on and so forth. You know, it's been quite an open session for you, an open debate. I've had the honor, I've been up there. She asked me to stay away from work, to see how they handled it. The Austrian Parliament also discussed the Ministry of Justice. Let me just point out that there have been more irregularities here than in our Justice Department. And it's not good-looking, it's about spending, procurement, judicial institutions, and so on. Because ideal probably can't be. And those who get our unconditional opinions are not ideal. There's some sort of certain... but which we can modify with the audit entities in some way to correct. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Maybe we're influencing ourselves here and there, and I believe that since we're colleagues with a lot of ministers, when the rules are passed, we're working together on making rules for budgetary accounting, non-profit institutions and so on. So in a way and in a way you can hear a little bit in the office and this other side and not just audits. We're trying audits, we're trying, I think today was also very constructive yesterday and suggestions and remarks, that we're... I've got now so much to do about it, and we have a lot, a lot of more individual reports when we cooperate... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So let's see how that happens in other institutions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was a lot... , asked questions, delivered reports to our other institutions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The State Audit Office is working with them on how it's going to work, how is it supposed to be? What does he disagree with, and how can he handle it? But I assure you that everything we notice, we have now and legal services, we think we need to deliver that we deliver both to the MUP and the Attorney's Office so that last year alone, we've had cooperation in 66 cases with the State's Attorney's Office, 31 cases with the MUP and over 100 and some cases with the Privatisation Fund. This was about the most assets that hadn't been evaluated, so we cooperated on providing information to the ones we had that weren't the others. And we continue this cooperation during the audits, and after these audits. And last year we delivered reports to all those who received unconditional opinions. And in earlier years, we delivered complete reports to the State's Attorney's office. And then we tried to cooperate with them because, you know, we have to work together in a way, because still, our lawyers have little participation, to see about these irregularities, what they are, how they can be solved and how they qualify,... That's what I think we're working together, that cooperation may be better in all our efforts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We also cooperate in the government's anti-corruption programme. We do our part... We even made a strategic plan of ours in line with the government's programme. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This applies most to units of local, regional self-government because they are looking for this information and I must say that our plan, or our implementation of last year's plan, has been accepted by the Committee. ... I'd just like to answer here to the gentleman, what's his name to Goran Heffer about Vukovar-Srijem County. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We do audits every year. The county's audit was about last year's issue of society. The Office has reports with all contractors, etc. But it's not common for them to write in the reports because we might be able to advertise and do some damage to someone else. So we give information. This is about the Vinkovci water industry. It was an accident, and the county is co-owner of the company. And there was assigned a direct contract business of 8 million and something in a way that showed bills. We objected that we should go to the competition etc. And the second question is how to handle the findings. You in each of these new reports see by which orders ours was conducted at the beginning... and by which it's not. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They did I have that full report. We'll give it to you after this conclusion to show that it's done. Can the DUR forward the report to the State's Attorney's Office? You got it. But we're estimating with them whether it's necessary to assess whether there are any indications. Because my legal department is working with the D.A.'s legal department and making decisions in which cases it would be necessary to forward and in which case it is not. If he thinks there's no one there. I don't know if you're happy with that answer. It's also said here that we first revised the MORH in '98. I have to say here we've been auditing Moreh since the beginning of '94. A year. That the reports were always discussed. For a time only on the Committees on Internal Policy and National Security. That the secret mark is now being removed and that they are being discussed publicly. I mean, I don't know if I have any more answers. If there are any questions I would like to ask our office is Tkalčić's 19th to speak to us. We can, we have about 20,000 pages of these reports so we can answer all the questions we can. So we have both natural and legal persons, suppliers, buyers. All those if you want to know who it's about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1153	Thank you very much to the state auditor. There's one correction, Mr. Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1154	Thank you very much. I'd just like to correct from this nice presentation by Mrs. State Auditor. I did not criticise whether you have, but I know you do, and I commended regular contacts with European countries. That's what you said in the report, but I was just about to hear the experiences of those countries. You're the one who brought them out now. So there are irregularities in the ministries as well as with us. So we're not a negative exception. That's what I wanted to point out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1155	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote at 3:00.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-21-0.u1156	The report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2007 and the audits carried out for 2006, the report on audits carried out for 2006, which was also a special part, and we abolished, in fact, we downloaded SERVANT SECRET. The debate is closed. We have several suggested conclusions. I'm voting on the next conclusion. A report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2007 is hereby adopted. This is the conclusion everyone suggested. Who's in? And some clubs, right? Yeah, does anyone mind? Restraint? It's good. 119 votes for and 1 abstention. Most of the votes were accepted by this first conclusion. The other one. A report on audits carried out for 2006 is hereby adopted. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? One-on-one hundred and 120 votes. Sustained. That's another conclusion. A report on audits carried out for 2006 – a special part – is hereby adopted. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you very much. A third conclusion was adopted unanimously with 120 votes. I will now read the proposal of the HNS Representatives Club, which was later agreed by the HDZ Representatives Club, and it reads: The findings of the audits that received an unfavourable opinion will be referred to the State's attorney's office for further action. Who's in favour of this proposal's conclusion? Thank you. Against? Restraint? 118 for and 3 abstentions. This conclusion, proposed by the CNS, was accepted. Thirdly, it is up to the State Attorney's Office to report within 6 months to the Croatian Parliament on the measures taken in connection with the reports in question. Also, I don't know if another club suggested the same thing. Who's in favor of this conclusion? Thank you. Do you mind? Restraint? 121 unanimously accepted this conclusion. We've reached conclusions from the SDP Representatives' Club. I note that the first and second SDP proposals and the fourth proposal were adopted, so it was consummated. It remains to vote on the third. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to submit within 60 days to the Croatian Parliament a programme for the long-term removal of irregularities repeated by the audit. I b) shall, within 60 days, provide the current list of assets owned or used by the State through the Office for the Management of State Property, and inform the Croatian Parliament thereof, and complete the complete list by the end of the year. We vote on the third proposal for a conclusion under (a) and (b) proposed by the SDP Representatives Club. Who's up for this proposal? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you. 43 against 4, 74 abstentions. The conclusion was not accepted. We have IDS conclusions. The first three conclusions are consummated. We vote on the 4th, 5th and 6. It undertakes the State Attorney's Office and the Croatian Privatisation Fund to initiate appropriate procedures in cases where companies have unfoundedly and incorrectly entered themselves as owners of state property or property of the Croatian Privatisation Fund which has not been assessed in the value of social capital in the process of conversion and privatisation or that property is held unfounded in possession and to initiate the necessary proceedings against companies for payment obtained without basis. So this is a proposal from the IDS Representatives Club. Who's in favour of this proposal's conclusion? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Restraint? 35 for, 81 against, and 5 abstentions. The fourth IDS conclusion was not accepted. The fifth conclusion: The Croatian Privatisation Fund is obliged to carry out the procedure in accordance with the provisions of Article 47 for assets not included in the estimated value of enterprises. The Privatisation Act, which stipulates that shares, shares, things and rights which are not assessed values of the social capital of the legal person under the Law on Conversion are transferred to the Fund if there are no grounds for the renewal of the procedure, or if the transfer does not affect the existing technological whole. Who's in favor of this conclusion? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? 36 for, 81 against and 4 abstentions. This conclusion was not accepted. Sixth. The Croatian Privatisation Fund is obliged to provide the Government of the Republic of Croatia with information on property owned by a state that is included and property that is not included in the estimated value and is used by society (sea well-being, agricultural land) to determine the amount of compensation in the past period. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to establish, after the data delivery, the amount of compensation used for the property and to charge the competent authorities for the implementation of the payment of the determined fee. Who's up for this proposal? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Who's restrained? 40 for, 79 versus and 2 abstentions. This conclusion was not accepted. We're going to the next item, or the vote.
