ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5277	Honorable MPs and MPs. We begin with the work of the Croatian Parliament. Allow me to invite you at first to share a minute of silence with our late colleague and legend of the Croatian theatre, Boris Dvornik. - A moment of silence - May eternal praise be to him and glory! – We continue to work at the 3rd session of the Croatian Parliament and I warmly welcome you all. According to the agenda we adopted when the conditions are met, we will complete the completion of the agenda. And now we're going to the 1st point of the agenda. - Proposal for a law amending the Police Act, with a final bill, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 24 You have received the proposal in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Rule 164 of the Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Here you go. Interior Minister Berislav Roncevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5278	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. It's about a shorter procedure of amending and supplementing the Police Act. Police law last published in "The People's News" 129.00. the years in its Chapter II; The Organisation of Police in Articles 11 to 15 contains provisions on the organisation of police in the Republic of Croatia and on how to manage police units. Article 12 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 provides for the establishment of a police director's office and the work carried out by an assistant director. Those provisions were fully in line with the provisions of Articles 43 and 44. Law on the State Administration System which is prescribed that administrations, institutions and directors as an administrative organisation are normally established in ministries as part of a ministry of work managed by a director with the post of assistant minister. However, the new Law on civil servants of Article 151 otherwise norms the status of certain civil servants after which other regulations have been adopted to bring this matter in line with the cited provision of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Handling of Authorities and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the System of State Administration. One of the mentioned changes in the status of individual state officials stemming from the provisions of previously cited regulations is seen as the current position of the assistant minister is being abolished and the work of management organisations within the ministry will be managed by directors. In this regard, it was necessary to access this minor amendment and to bring the provisions of the Police Act in line with the provisions laid down later in the way that the proposed law prescribes that the work of the Police Directorate will be managed by the Chief Police Director. In connection with the name of the Chief Director of Police, it is noted that the Ministry of the Interior is under way to establish administrative organisations and as a prerequisite for the amendment and addition of the Internal Design Regulation of the Ministry of the Interior is also this amendment to the Law on the Police, the new establishment of administrative organisations headed by directors. In this regard, the proposer is of the view that, in relation to the directors of other administrative organisations within the Ministry of the Interior, it is also necessary to make a nominal distinction since it is an activity in which it is very important and clear and precise and specific responsibility and responsibilities of a particular function, having regard to the responsibilities and powers of the Chief Director of Police to deal with matters carried out in the Police Directorate, the size and structure units and the number of police officers whose work is managed. For this reason, the promoter proposes that the current police director, assistant minister, be called chief director of police. I note that this is not the final amendment to the Police Act. The police law will experience its full amendment but after one broad public and professional debate and this change of the Police Act is necessary to comply with the above-mentioned laws and as a prerequisite for the Regulation on amendments and additions to the Internal Design of the Ministry of Police, so I suggest on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that you support this amendment to the Law on Police. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5279	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? The Legislative Committee? No, I don't. The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Clubs first. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Vladimir Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5280	Dear Vice President, Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. The HDZ Club will support and support this proposal since it is obvious in the new system that all ministerial assistants in all ministries and the Ministry of the Interior are also becoming directors and it is also obvious that the job done by the director-in-chief so far deserves to be different both in terms and in terms of status and in the system of state administration, and therefore it is undeniable to separate both in title and in the function of the head director from the other directors in all ministries and in particular in the ministries or the Ministry of Interior and within the offices of administrative organisations in the ministry system. Given that the very tasks of the directorship, monitoring of the state of security and the occurrences that favour the creation and development of crime, coordination and guidance, are until specific regulations, concerns, about police readiness to act in exceptional circumstances, the chief director is, in any case, the most important link in the work of the police. And for that reason, and because of those jobs that have been successful in some way so far, according to the analysis carried out in the area of crime, I believe that, on behalf of the Club, it is, on behalf of itself and on behalf of the Club, that the supplement of the short Law retains and deserves support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5281	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, Honorable Representative Ranko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5282	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister. On behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, I must first of all say that we are not prone to this kind of amendment to the Police Act, that is, to amend one word, because it is only about title, or title. Just using the explanation that Mr. Minister had just given, which is that it is necessary to seriously and thoroughly amend the Police Act. In fact, it should be the right thing to do, not to reach out for a change of one word that does not bear any change in substance, to edit an area that is truly serious and important. What you might have noticed in the light of this Law are even cited articles of the Law that do not change in the same way as Article 11 and Article 13 are not subject to any change, even though it states to you neatly that these are the provisions of the applicable Law that will be amended. And there's only one word at the end that only works for the title. We are prone to the status and importance that the Director of Police has, that is, handling, I will tell one huge organization that has 21 thousand cca. People, of whom 20,000 are armed or authorized, require his different position and status. And that's probably where they might agree. Such a situation in which his name has been changed exclusively, although he has managed a management organisation called the Police Directorate so far. And if it's the same thing, and that means that he's still gonna be the Director of Police himself, the supplement chief, won't do much to change his position. And the position of the Director of Police, if I can paint it, is exactly the opposite of why we are constantly in favour and that is depolitisation and in line with European standards intending that function to be truly devoid of, I will now list the other assistant for which the disstination is done, and that means the assistant for legal, human and material finance affairs. Namely, the Director of Police is one of the people who has a responsibility but has no rights. This means his handling of this, the largest, I will call it a company in Croatia because there is not one that has 21 thousand people, in fact there is a situation where a decision on material financial affairs is made by someone who is the same rank as he. On the other hand, no personnel solution is actually signed by the Minister of the Interior, and it must also, in some ways, be shared with the assistant for staff work. Every Thursday, the picturesque government can be replaced by a police director. And right there lies that situation that should change his status in a way that is equal to the rank at least as the directors of the security agencies. If the Director of Police were to be in a position to be in office, regardless of who previously gave an opinion or who he proposed, it is not at all disputed to me, he is a civil servant, and that is done by the Government, but what is most important, it would in fact strengthen his safety but the certainty and independence of the police in that area that requires responsibility and must be given to both the head man and the right. Also, in the very reason of the Law, changes are being reviewed and announced on some new administrative organisations within the Ministry of the Interior are being announced. You should know that these administrative organizations exist there. So I'm guessing this isn't about new administrative organizations within the police force. What I also want to point out is that by changing, i.e. forgetting to change that last point in that same article that regulates that the Government of the Republic of Croatia appoints and resolves the Director on a proposal from the Minister of the Interior, we are again coming up with the situation that the public tender is as something that has been declared and that in the end we expect that everything for all civil servants will be... On the side. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, this isn't the first time that one name or person has actually been working on a situation to reach out for these changes, I'll remind you that was invented by that security management. I'm not going to mention the name, but it's important that this law unnecessarily shows that the situation is such that it tries to change language discipline, and I think it's necessary to bring really the Director of Police into a situation that doesn't depend, I say, on a possible change even at a phone session every day and not just on Thursdays. The Coast Guard, the Police Academy, the relationship of other assistants within the Ministry of the Interior, the relationship with USCOD, the announcements of the establishment of the FBI, also citizenship, the Schengen border, access to the European Union, are all topics that really need to be made an effort. And I agree that the Police Act requires a thorough change, not this cosmetic change. And I'm finishing this debate, thank you. Noting that we won't support a change like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5283	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Honorable Representative Ivan Hanzek.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5284	Dear Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you, here, after the Easter holidays that we are back in the working atmosphere. And here's the first point of our session today, or the continuation of the session is to amend the Law on the Police. Unfortunately, for the past 10 days, they have given us the right to talk and a little wider about certain problems that upset the public whether realistically or objectively or through sensational writing of the media, and therefore I will start in my debate with the first conclusion that this debate could be conducted through the form of questions to the Government of the current clock. But I think within this point I can actually expand a little bit with a few of my observations. I must say, unfortunately, I also agree with a fellow who spoke, an existing who spoke on behalf of the club, in order to be more thoroughly analysed by the Police Act, but also by a whole series of other acts and conditions that we have in the organization and problems on the ground, the functioning of the police. But I won't call security in the Republic of Croatia either, but come on, I'll say public order and peace. I must say, as mayor, here I am now in the second term, and earlier and as deputy mayor, the vice-president of the council in the last 13 years, I have had the opportunity to meet with a whole series of changes in the way and functioning of the police. However, all these changes did not bring the necessary quality for one simple reason, because on the one hand the completeness, and on the other side the organisation and the reorganisation that are almost would beg to say static on the ground causes a certain dissatisfaction from the mayor, mayor, and also citizens in the end because we are in some way their speakers with what we have and what results we have in the work. This should not be understood by the minister, but those who look at us from the service will not take it as a criticism for employees, executives and those who perform their duties. It is simply as a need to analyse them and find the most meaningful solutions to obtain the functioning of the police service in the way it works in those countries we like to call on, which we seek, which is in the countries of the European Union. Therefore, as well as our club's representative, Col. Ostojić, I think this is a very small, very important cosmetic change. But I expect and call on the Minister to allow both the Parliamentary Committee and the Parliament to get to the agenda as soon as possible except for the amendments to the law under one, but if it does not go so quickly that we all, who are interested or more interested in the Assembly, sit together with the representatives of the ministry and get to some but common line that should improve both the state of security and satisfy and cause the consequences and greater satisfaction and employees in the police who are often dissatisfied with the fact that some things cannot be affected. And now I'm going to expand a little bit more, but I know that the vice president won't interrupt me because he has an understanding of the problems of the service, and that's also the functions that we listen to daily in political life, which are relations between the State's Attorney's Office and the Attorney's Office, the judiciary and the police. I think that there are problems that are discouragingly affecting police officers, who work through public media in a way that degrades or underestimating the effort and the result of the work of police officers and police officers, and that the reason for this dissatisfaction lies in some other institutions and authorities of the state and state repression. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5285	Thank you. It is up to the distinguished representative Ivo Grbić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5286	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The proposed Law amending the Police Act gives way to bringing the Police Act in line with the Law on the System of State Administration and the new Law on State Officials, which I would say in a different way to regulate the status of individual state officials. Changes in the status of individual state officials lead to the removal of assistant directors, and the work of management organisations within the Ministry of Interior will be managed by the Director. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The police law needs to be amended to modify the current form of management of the police department. Proposed amendments to the Police Act introduce a new name chief police director to determine who manages the work of the Police Directorate. I consider the proposal to be justified and necessary, given that the establishment units of the Ministry of Interior are administrative organisations or administrations whose work are managed by directors. The team should more support the position of the promoter and make a distinction between the Director-General of Police and the Director-General's responsibility and the powers of the Director-General. On the basis of the above, I am of the opinion that the proposed amendments should be supported and, in an urgent procedure, to amend the Police Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5287	Thank you. Dear Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. She's not present, she's losing her right to debate. Honorable representative of Shima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5288	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. Well, let me take a few words to look back on this brief amendment to the Police Act. Since one of the oldest laws is most likely before us, so it was passed in 2000, full nine years, or full eight years, and its characteristic is in fact that in a certain way it plotted or timed reforms in police with some basic principles in terms of creating a modern police force that corresponds to a democratic society. Since time does its part, and since a series of laws have been passed in this House over the past eight years that meet the Police Act in a certain way, I have to be honest and say that I expected the amendments to the Police Act to this House to come much earlier. Clearly, life does its part, the requirements are what they are in terms of fighting all forms of crime, in terms of approaching the European Union, the borders, and that I do not put all this together. And I have to admit that I'm a little disappointed, when here after eight and a few years ahead of us comes the first amendment of the Police Act I emphasized in 2000 and actually changes an article. I don't understand what's coming to us right now and why we don't come up with any other suggestions. What other suggestions are these? So other suggestions are what we had the opportunity to listen to, read by both the former and current minister in the sense that the ministry's reorganization is being prepared, that special teams will be formed, that I don't know what some special departments will be, that if you ask me anyway for praise, but we're not really clear why we didn't get one full change of law that we should have about what we've been hearing for the past four years, five, actually all together, which didn't get it all together together, and that we're having a serious debate about it. A team before I knew that the ministry had been preparing for changes to the law on several occasions. I must admit that I expected that when they first came to us and changed the Law on the Police to our benches, we would get one full picture and debate about what the police are in the coming period and what it is to the police when Croatia enters the European Union. I know that certain corrections, revisions, certain sublegal acts have been passed, and that it has been engulfed in the structure of the police themselves, and the police department itself, by law. I could count it now, but I won't. Because I know that some of the organizational forms that exist in the police today are not legal, that is, they are covered by the rules, but at the same time the rule does not correspond to the law. Here I will just say one thing that I expected and which was already clear somewhere in 2000 that it would be the next step maybe in a few years, and that is what I expected today to actually get what I think is most important in terms of police depolitisation and what all modern police have not only Europe but also the good part of countries outside Europe, which is that police officials will be chosen by competition. Normally, I don't mean an open competition. I mean an internal competition. I don't know, Minister, if you've been able to find it, but the former minister must have found the criteria in his desk somewhere, let's say, what are the conditions and the proposed criteria for what the police station chief is saying and to the police director. I'm actually hoping that the next step in this whole story is actually going to be between the other and one such move, because I think it's actually the only way with the right criteria to guarantee that the waist will rule the system. Now what did we get on the bench today? We got on the bench today one realization of an idea. If you're asking me if I have anything against it, the Director of Police has the status he predicts and that predicts this amendment of the law, then I say I don't mind. I think the Director of Police must have more status than he has today and cannot remain in the rank of Assistant Minister. However, it seems to me that this change has been made a little bit in a sour way. I don't know why you didn't go with a single amendment to the law, to erase the fact that the director is no longer in the rank of assistants, but the director is in the ranks of, say, the secretary of state and you solved all the problems. This is how you've complicated things now. You're anti-cipe, or you're assuming some future, you assume the future will be formed in the MUP, or in the police of some administrative unit that you have today, which will be headed by the directors, and then we'll get the principal. Perhaps it was necessary to change the name simply if the problem was that in other ministries and other administrative bodies we had directors then we could invent some other name, I don't know the director or anything else. In fact, in this way, this change in me even violates the Law on civil servants and tenants. In the introduction, you are calling for some amendments to the Law on civil servants and tenants, while at the same time not assuming any other changes because this law has been amended on two occasions. Then the Law on the Police is only in one part that you comply with the Law on Civil Service, and in a number of other questions where this law should also be brought into line with the Law on Officials, you do not bring it into line and in fact a little bit is lost to credibility. I don't think it's necessary for a simple reason, we're now going to get the principal. What will make this chief director more important when you no longer have a single director in the police system, when there is no assistant minister in the police organisation. Therefore, these ministerial assistants cannot be directors until new forms are created or new names are given. For example, someone who reads more laws might conclude that the principal director will actually be the director of some other directors in some other administrative bodies. So it seems to me that in fact this haste and in this way it wasn't necessary for a simple reason if it wanted to give the director a status which I agree that should be had and that he deserves it then it should have been as I suggested, solved in another way. This actually opens up a series of questions, and what really matters most to me is, in a certain way, I'm not going to say instability, but I'd better say the integrity of the entire police system. Because now you've actually got one situation that I don't think will be good at. Why? Because inside the system now everyone will expect certain changes, and no one knows what changes. Let's say who, what will become of me, if the principal becomes headmaster of what the current deputy director will call himself. Will they become directors? Well, if not, what's the chief of management gonna call himself? Say, will the C.I.P.D. Chief become headmaster? But then what will be the deputy? Yeah, you've actually opened up a series of issues in the organization system in some kind of organisational scheme that I don't think is good at. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5289	Thank you. Honorable representative Krešimir Gulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5290	The Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Ministers, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, I'd like to speak with a few words. Although the provision of the Police Act should be brought into line with the new Law on civil servants whose Article 115 otherwise norms the status of certain government officials should be pointed out that there are a whole series of other important arguments to change the name of the head man of the police department. The directorate of the police as an administrative organisation within the Ministry of the Interior is certainly one of the largest if not the largest administrative organisation within one ministry in the Republic of Croatia. Police are led by a police director, or after amending the law, the chief police director counts nearly 20,000 members. In addition, in the overall structure, the obligations of the Chief Director of Police are a broad range of competences that are very important for the functioning of the state administration, but more important for respecting the rule of law is the freedom of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. From a number of police actions that we have heard very often about lately, such as "Diagnosis", "Maestro", "Učka", "Tourist", "Put" and so on. and numerous other actions related to the seizure of large quantities of drugs, arms smuggling, counterfeiting of money are confirmed by the obligations of the Chief Director of Police, are much broader than the management of the Police Directorate, and in particular in the segment of coordination and coordination of police activities with other state bodies. It is known that the success of the fight against all more serious forms of criminality, particularly corruption and organised crime, cannot be conducted without close police cooperation with the state's attorney, USKOK, the tax administration, the customs administration, the state inspectorate and other state bodies, and is very important where the head of police is located in relation to the leaders of other institutions. In addition to the importance of the position of the Chief Director of Police in the organisation of the Government in the Republic of Croatia, it is equally important to position the role of chief police director adequately in international contexts. I am therefore sure that in the implementation of the reforms in Chapter XXIV. – Justice, freedom and security of access to EU accession is not irrelevant to what powers and how much independence in its work and decision-making is given by the Director-General of the Police. It is also important that its position be adequate to the positions of police chiefs of other European countries. This is important already now, and with the accession of the Union there will be even more because police work comes out of the national frameworks and is based on international police cooperation, data exchange, joint operational actions and joint projects. Therefore, it is necessary to place the Chief Director of Police in a level playing field for the heads of police of other European countries. So I will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5291	Thank you. And the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5292	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, the Honorable Mr. Representatives! I don't think this law should be disputed, although I agree absolutely with Mr. Lucin, Hanzek, Mr. Ostojić, that we don't need one such cosmetic change. Whether it's about the Director or the Director-General, it's a one-lingual expression. But the point is how effective the principal is, and hence the police. In fact, this whole law only comes down to three articles. The Director-General shall be managed by the Director-General, Article 2. The "Employer" is replaced by the words "the Chief Director of Police" in an appropriate decline. And Article 3, this law shall enter into force on the eighth day of the day of its publication in the People's Newspaper. But business and that should be the essence of our debate, how effective is this principal at this point? What are his obligations? About like this, as defined by Article 12. The law of the police. So it monitors and analyses the state of security of occurrences that favour the creation, development of crime, then synchronises, guides, oversees the work of police rights, directly participates in certain more complex transactions from the work of police administrations, worries about the implementation of international contracts, and now I do not list all other obligations, say the Croatian police themselves and those who lead it. That's what Mr. Benko's doing in this country today. I agree that it is a professional although we have been following police work lately I see as my previous and mentioned that intensive work against some classical forms of crime especially when it comes to drugs. Very well-organised groups in Pula, Rijeka, Split, Zadar fell, and that is absolutely what needs to be welcomed. In fact, it's up to you to encourage the police to keep on doing these jobs. Clearly, the parents of these children should also be encouraged not to remain silent, perhaps encouraging policy to introduce drug testing for all forms of basic, middle, etc. schools, colleges. However, what I find odd is that in 2007 compared to 2006, there were 6.4% fewer crimes, meaning last year than last year. It is clear to me that the MUP fails to detect any crime in the structures of the government whether it is one "Brodosplit" or other companies from the Croatian roads, water to utility companies owned by cities, municipalities, counties. But this political addiction of the Croatian police, and I see it so somehow is harmful by society as a whole. And it's not there I'd say fear of how Mr. Ostojić defined it from the possibility that the police director's shift at some phone sessions. No, I don't. But that's where I actually see this fear of a self-censorship that appears in people who run those institutions. Like what? Mr. Lucin, while he was Minister of the Interior, did not end up being replaced in some way by Mr. Ostojic. Mr. Benko, whom he has appointed if I am not mistaken, Mr. Mlinaric, the former interior minister has succeeded him in some way by Minister Kirin or Benko has succeeded Kirin to be more precise. And finally Mr. Roncevic is also relying on Mr. Benk's services. But what do I want to point out to this occasion? When it comes to this political crime that no one dares to touch or the police director who can be sure that no one will touch him until the moment he touches politics. Look, let's say the MUP in my opinion failed to detect any crime in the structures of the government, whether it was Brodosplit or other Croatian companies, I've already said that. Let's look at one more detail. After an employee of this LGT bank in Lichtenstein sold a disket to German secret police in Lichtenstein, the monthly turnover of their banks from 3 billion euros fell to 100m euros. The same thing is happening to us in Brodosplit. As long as we don't put money laundering in that shipyard, no one with Brodosplit will conclude a single contract on the construction of the ship. No contract on the order of a ship in Split has been concluded for two years. The shipbuilding site does not function except by withdrawing recovery and subsidy funds from the state budget. Only last year and last year on the basis of the recovery has withdrawn a billion thousand kunas as large as the word "3 May", "Olinik", and not a single kuna. And now the oil needs to be privatized and these two are probably going to be rehabilitated. However, what are we entitled to? We have the right to demand that the police in some way shut down and that political crime either from the 1990s when money was laundered for the purchase of weapons, whether crime from conversion, or what happened after 2000, 2004 and so on. In Lichtenstein at the moment the company, citizens from Croatia have 130 companies. Only General Zagorec has eight such companies in his name. The Drago Cat we tie to this Brodosplit is also a client of Lichtenstein bankers. Our esteemed colleague, former Mr. Ivić Pasalic, credits his business in Croatia through Lichtenstein. In Lichtenstein there are companies and Mr. Goran Strok etc. And we're going over it. We know what they do with these companies, we know why they serve and nothing. Perhaps he is as controversial as he was in the 1990s to obtain weapons for the Croatian army as his father was then for the whole of Yugoslavia. However, if anything, at least he worked abroad for a while. But when a civil servant, a official, an official, regardless of the monthly salary of 12, 14, a maximum of 16 thousand kunas triggers a job of 20, 30, 50 million euros or some of them 100 or 150 million euros, I would even dare say that it doesn't say anything about these individuals as much as it says about the authority that protects them and allows them. I guess we better keep our mouths shut because they know a lot about us. Clearly, those who should be asked where they will be told about this money, so what is the difference between us and those who participated in the conversion during the 1990s and who became the pillars of society overnight and where they were equally involved, so that there would be no confusion and socialist directors and electors of the former authorities. There is clearly no difference, with those in conversion still looking to be pillars of society, there will be economics, tomorrow perhaps even moral Ferraris, and these newly-roasted entrepreneurs in the field of construction may well be badly implemented. Here, let's say one job should be done by the Croatian government, not to say Croatian politics. It is a job that should be dealt with by the head director of what the Croatian police and the Croatian State's Attorney's Office, judiciary, etc. will say. but I have the impression that the police are precisely determined not to say a narrow part of the circle, although when I see that the main functions in the police but also some other structures in the intelligence community, for example, are the behaviour of people who come to us from the protection companies of the largest Croatian companies, then we can't expect much from the Croatian police at this point, that they will stand up against, say, those pillars of society because everything is simply networked. Almost all the first people of the Croatian police, intelligence communities, come through these large companies from individual security functions at the head of this country. And that's how many people in these companies are left alone. Well, look, the former director of the intelligence community, Mr. Podbevsek, is now running some security company. The head of intelligence comes from these companies, etc., and then the question is, what should our police do? I think you should deal with that political crime too.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5293	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first one is a respected representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5294	Well, I'd rather work with my colleagues, Caine, actually, if it wasn't for some sort of misunderstanding. When it comes to the possible constraint of police activities, the current law, which applies not to the assessment of those who brought it, but to the assessment of international experts, ensures the independence of the police. So the police have no legal fences in the sense that it can be affected. However, when it comes to efficiency, I am agreeing with you and we are talking about it. However, in order for the police to be effective, it must be adequately organised. What does the principal's appointment bring? Bringing and destroying the intensity of the existing law. The existing law had the intensities to keep the police organisation as shallow as possible. So, from director to operative, there's as little stairs as possible. With the introduction of the Director-General, Deputy Director, Director-General, Director-General, Chief of Staff, this organisation is becoming deep. And actually, from the boss to the one who should do it, you have seven steps, and the simple organization is not going to be effective. And I'm not sure my colleague Caine is in line with the Civil Service Act. I don't know where that law mentions the name principal. It's kind of... Maybe he should have called him something different, so if he didn't turn out, I think he had to have a principal so he could have a principal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5295	Thank you. No, I'm sorry, you haven't answered. ... Your Honor, you didn't report for the replica in time. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm sorry, I've been watching, you haven't answered. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'll appreciate that, but you didn't answer on time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5296	Okay. Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Representative. It's not our laws that are controversial. Our laws are, let's say, especially now those that we are harmonising with European fluids as well as Western European countries. It's our practice, the one I've been trying to describe. If they're the leaders, the police department. In fact, the people or intelligence communities that come from these large security companies that are guarding large companies who are actually keeping their resignation by their work, to return or work again the next day in these large companies. So what can we expect from this director rather than be a puppy, as the Istrians would say, and not to touch those who in some way tasked him to come to office, to the head position in the MUP or the intelligence community, or to be a house, so that the next day he could come back to them. Look at the paradoxes, for example, ours, not to name people now, the former head of the intelligence community goes to one such company. In Istria, such people go to other big companies. Our former chief state attorney after he's stopped working, no less or less starts representing the boys of the criminal organization. So where does that lead? Well, it's all networked in this country, and that's what we have to fight and that's what we need to talk about. As ungrateful as that is right now for all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5297	Thank you. And another replica of the esteemed representative Ivan Hanžek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5298	First of all, we're a small country, and it's hard to ensure that anyone who's performed a public duty doesn't go into something that's related or in a similar way can lead to a situation that seems strange to us. But me, my replica relates, colleague Cain, to one thing, which I, I think, with full right, can represent here and that is not to be generalized. The large size of members of the service that came to the police was found remaining, including those who had left. Whether they were happy changes or not, whether they were for political, in and out of these reasons, since, then, but I don't think we should doubt the professionalism and the ability of these people to do the jobs they've given them on the job. I agree with you on one thing, which is, that there must be political will, that certain things be sanctioned, that what society has defined is realized. Unfortunately, at this point in Croatia, we do not have, in common political will, to go together without the rest in the fight against corruption and against all forms of crime. I don't need to protect anyone, I don't protect the police, but I don't think the police should even be put on a pillar of shame for the safety of crime and other things that are present in society.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5299	Thank you. The reply to the replica, now on time prepared, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5300	Dear Mr. Representative, it is clear that anyone can go wherever they want and no one can, unless the law prohibits what they will do after thanking him for his duties as a minister, government or a third. But I assure you that someone who expects to go right into that company will not touch the company's bosses and the company's business. And we all know that these individuals of the 1990s acquired these companies through conversion and privatisation, and also a large majority of us think that it was one extremely dishonest, unfair, incorrect and above all that, I dare say, half criminal or purely criminal business. Because the government gave someone a chance to get everything, and the others to get nothing but a bucket or that container he was taking the cans from, the food. What's once said from the beginning was born under the quotes "back", it can't be corrected over time. And these people of ours, with their behavior, with their protective character, are just trying to correct what should be sanctioned and punished.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5301	Thank you. And the final word, Prime Minister Berislav Roncevic, the Prime Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5302	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, first of all, I would like to show myself on behalf of the Government that the Government accepts the amendment of the Committee on Legislatives to Article 2 that the words "zakona" are added, meaning the Law on the Police, the Government accepts, and then it becomes an integral part of this bill. Allow Mr. Vice President and Honorable Ladies and Gentlemen Representatives, a few reviews of the debate. I thank you for the debate, for several of my comments and for the debate between Mr. Ostojić and Mr. Lucin. Two of today's distinguished MPs, but persons who were in charge of home affairs portfolios in the term of office from 2000 to 2003, which normally includes the police. The authority and position, Mr. Ostojić was the director of the police, I was in the opening statement that this law was passed in 2000. Nothing is in the power and position of the Director of Police, then, changed by this amendment and supplement, the present Proposal for Amendments and the addition of this Act. The fact is that, and Mr. Lucin said, he expected in 2000 that police officers would be elected by competition, so in four years, Mr. Lucin, your term of office, no police officer was chosen by competition. These amendments and additions to the Law, this shorter amendment and addition of the Law, just following other laws, the Law on the System of State Administration and the Law on the Allocation of Authorities adopted in the previous term of the HDZ Government, open the possibility of a tender. We can't announce a job contest that doesn't conform to these laws. We, in the Police Act, have a name, a police director, an assistant minister. And we need to delete the law as assistant minister, so we can comply with these laws. And that's the whole point of this law. I said, you were unfortunately out while I was giving an introductory explanation, so maybe you didn't hear that information, the law in the police will go into full change, but this is a necessary condition to comply with these laws so you could have a preparatory competition that won't be contrary to the existing law. And that's the essence of this shorter change. Whether it's cosmetics or not, I don't know, but the fact that this is, that this is supposed to be, that this has to be done. A regulation on the internal organisation of ministries, it is in the power of the Government and I can tell you now, it is already prepared, it also contains that special department that you called the Croatian FBI, which is, which is, which is a special unit for the control of corruption and organised crime, as a adjustment to the Ministry of Interior in the implementation of four government strategies adopted in the 2003-2007 mandate on the repression of corruption, organised crime, trafficking in human beings and narcotics. Therefore, this law is only, this shorter amendment of the law is only a prerequisite to be announced in the competition, to conduct a tender for the selection of chief police director. Something about a name. We have consulted what this responsible function is called in other countries. In European Union countries, the most common name is the Chief Director of Police. However, the linguists said the word director is not in the spirit of Croatian language and is the appropriate word director. Since the Ministry of the Interior is very often identified with the name of police in the Croatian public, you can also read the Minister of the Interior for the Croatian press very often. The police are just part of the internal affairs that you know very well, and I don't need to relocate here specifically in order to make that linguistic distinction. Because other assistant ministers will be directors under the new law, in order to avoid any misunderstandings about the name which implicates and misunderstandings in powers and responsibilities, the proposal is called the Chief Director of Police. Mr. Cain spoke of political addiction. The government protects and allows me not to know what. I don't know if it's a feature, so you mentioned General Zagorec. Mr. Kajin, General Zagorec was an assistant defence minister who was resolved sometime in the sixth month of 2000 and nothing happened with that gentleman until HDZ's authority arrived, until HDZ's defence minister arrived, and here today the Minister of the Interior began to find documents in the same Ministry of Defence that were there all along, and no one was doing anything, but the HDZ government, the HDZ Minister, and today we have a procedure that will end hopefully in front of the Croatian judiciary with a justice who will say the relevant bodies. Therefore, this authority, if you imply it, does not have and protects any political crime. Police directorship in pre-examination operations is completely free and is bound exclusively by the law and regulations of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5303	I would like to thank the Minister of the Interior for the esteemed Berislav Roncevic. That concludes the debate, and ladies and gentlemen, we will vote. Excuse me, we have a correction to an incorrect quote by the distinguished representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5304	I think it's important. I've got two arguments to correct. The first quote is therefore in the form of a question why you didn't go to the competition you were four years old. We were not four years old, but three years old, and according to the advice of foreign consultants until the law was implemented, or until it was brought to life, it was advised not to go with that measure. Another incorrect assumption is that this change guarantees further changes within this system. That's not true. You have de facto put the entire directorship outside the law by this change. Why? Tell me! Wait, you have the principal, and you have two deputy directors. You then had to at least this law stipulate that the deputy directors were also called vice principals, otherwise they were put outside the law. And so I could go further. Therefore, no conditions for changes were created. I think it's complicated.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5305	Thank you. We'll vote on this agenda point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5306	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law amending the Police Act, it is an emergency procedure, first and second reading. The debate is closed. The amendment of the Legislative Committee has been accepted and has become an integral part of the final draft law. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Turn yourself on! Please vote! The law was adopted by 73 votes in favour, 4 abstentions and 35 votes against. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5308	Mr. President! There seems to be something wrong. This is where the names come out. I voted, but I don't see my name where I voted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5309	Because... That's right, because every time then we should wait for one, the other, the third, it would take us a lot of time, but it's recorded. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You can check how you voted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5310	I've been...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5311	If you want it back, you'll see it so you don't have to ask those questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5312	I was in a joint that was short...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5313	It's registered.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5314	Well, you had to see that.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5315	It's registered. It's just not shown here. Here, we'll try it on one example now, and you'll see it's registered. So we found that this was accepted with this majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5316	We move to the 2nd item of the agenda, it's - Proposed law on trade, first reading of P.Z.E. No. 21 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply, Articles 144 to 150. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health, the Committee on Tourism, the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received the report at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Croatian Deputy Prime Minister Damir Polancec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5317	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Allow me to brief you on the proposal for a trade law. Trade as an economic activity has currently been governed by the applicable Trade Act, which has been in force since 1996. The applicable law has been amended and complemented over the past 11 years on several occasions. The implementation of this law on the market pointed out the need for further regulation of trade activities, i.e. the need for further harmonisation of legislation with emerging market conditions, through the regulation of certain areas which have not been regulated so far, resulting in further opportunities for the growth of the grey economy and unfair competition. It was precisely because of these facts that we opted for a brand-new Law on Trade. The text of this bill also includes recommendations received by the special unit of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in charge of the HItroRez with the aim of simplifying certain procedures for economic operators. The law systematically regulates a large area that is important for the entire economy of the Republic of Croatia. It is in line with the rules of the European Union in the field of the internal market, competition and consumer protection. For the past four years, all relevant partners from representatives of the state administration body, representatives of employers and, of course, other social partners, trade unions, whose proposals are mostly part of the text of the law you have before you. The main objective to achieve is to create a good legal basis in the domain of national legislation, which will enable trade to grow and develop properly with an interest in employees and consumers. I would like to single out some of the newspapers covered by this law in relation to existing legislation, such as first of all defining certain economic concepts in the area of trade, which will allow easier application and of course exercise of supervision. Prescription of detailed conditions on the market which may carry out the activity of trade. The regulation of a type of sales facility through the shop's typeology, which will allow for the monitoring of retail trade by all types and will constitute a database for the creation of a strategy for the development of trade activities. Regulation of the procedure and conditions for issuing a solution to meet the minimum technical conditions for sales facilities, equipment and means by which trade is carried out in accordance with the typeology of the store. Prescription of conditions for the organisation, way of business and procedure of selling fish to large-market fish, which is now a completely uncovered area. Regulation of the conditions for carrying out direct sales operations through representatives with a view to preventing the grey economy in this area. Elimination of the obligation to keep the list of goods in retail, while prescribing a simpler way of ensuring the availability of data on the state of the goods in each sales facility. Regulation of the prohibition on the sale of goods below its purchase price with value added tax which is qualified as unfair trading and the prescribing of appropriate penalties for non-compliance with the provisions of the law as well as the prescribing of higher powers in the supervision of the competent inspection bodies. As regards provisions governing trade policy and foreign business, the following should be highlighted. That they are in conformity with the applicable customs rules. The provisions governing trade policy and business abroad also follow the idea of a legal regulation of the European Union which is directly applicable in the Member States of the European Union, since it is an integral part of the common trade policy of the Union. On the day of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, the provisions of this law relating to the directly applicable regulation of the European Union shall cease to apply, as by way of membership, the Republic of Croatia will, of course, be obliged to assume the common trade policy of the European Union. First of all, this refers to provisions governing the conditions for carrying out foreign trade. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, I would like to stress once again that the entry into the European Union of the Republic of Croatia becomes an integral part of the internal market of the European Community, which, of course, applies to the regulation of the European Union. The provisions of this law, which regulate trade policy and business abroad, which will remain in force and after the Republic of Croatia becomes a member of the European Union, relate to trade relations with third countries or non-member countries of the European Union. It is also worth saying a few words on the arrangements of working time in the activities of trade, which are covered by this law. I'm aware that this particular area will cause the most reaction and the most controversy. However, it should be noted that the Regulation on working time of shops and other forms of retail trade is currently in force in the "National Journal" number 80/01. which constitutes a legal framework on the basis of which cities and municipalities, more than 500 of them, or the headship of cities and municipalities, make decisions on working time of shops. This arrangement of working time for the consequence has a broad and unequal approach to the regulation of working time in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, with the of course difficult to conduct supervision. Following such a situation, the view is taken that it is necessary to regulate the working time of trade in a unique manner for the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia. Thus, the proposal for this Law on Trade regulates the work of shops in such a way that working hours are differentiated according to the given characteristics, which is: weekly working hours, Sundays and holidays, and which will allow for further emphasis, simpler implementation and more effective market surveillance. As for working hours during the week, it is possible that the shops from Monday to Saturday will be open from 6 hours to 21 hours. However, due to the necessary supply of the population, it is possible for gas stations and shops to operate from Monday to Saturday from 0 to 24 hours in a small to 80-metre-square section of the gas station, gas stations and shops to a small part of the closed part of the gas stations within the closed areas of the highway and shops in the border crossings within the closed areas of highways, station, airport, port and port of nautical tourism. When we talk about doing business on Sundays, it's basically this law that's arranged as a day off with certain exceptions. However, due to the increase in consumer inflows in certain parts of the year, it is possible to work on Sundays all shops from 6 to 13 hours in the period from 1 June to 1 October as well as throughout December. So once again, Sunday is based on this law as a day off, a day off, and they can do shops in the following months: from 1 June to 1 October as well as throughout December. And that's when they work in business hours from six hours to 13 hours. I also noted that there is an exception. On Sundays throughout the year, and due to the functioning of the social community, because of cultural customs, tradition, information rights could work from 6 to 13 hours stands and benches outside the market for little for sale of flowers and candles, kiosks for sale of press, specialized shops for sale of bread and bakery products, press, flowers, candles and souvenirs. Due to the necessary supply of the population, it is possible for gas stations and shops to work throughout the week from 0 to 24 hours on a Sunday basis, up to 80 square meters within the closed section of the gas stations, shops in the border access points within the closed areas of the highways, etc. The possibility is that Sundays as exceptions work only certain sales places, and according to the working time of the facility within which they are located. So, shops within hospitals, hospitals, spas, spas, hotels and hotel complexes, etc., shops in concert halls and cinemas, congress halls, shops on boats two hours before the start and during the duration of sailing, so they can work extremely on Sundays throughout the year. Article 63 clearly states that, I apologize, on Sundays, all warehouses and other forms of wholesale trade are closed, this is still important. On Sundays, they could work, or will work, and this was established in Article 63 of the Law benches on retail markets, shops within a closed part of the retail market for retail sale of food products, press, flowers, candles and souvenirs, mobile sales, distance sales, direct sales through representatives and sales of agricultural and family holdings, so they can work on Sundays throughout the year. This law also provides for the protection of workers from dismissals which are addressed to the competent authorities for breach of labour law. Therefore, special protection of whistles that submit in good faith and report corruption on the basis of reasonable doubt is also prescribed, so as to provide appropriate circumstances and evidence to justify and justify the exclusion from the protection of whistles that may be subject to flat-rate remarks. In the case of a slow burden of proof, it shall be transferred to the employer as defined in the labour legislation. As for the arrangements of working time in the countries of the European Union, I must say that the same is arranged in very different ways in accordance with the interests of each country. Namely, the Republic of Austria, the Federal Republic of Germany of the European Union has provisions on working time on Sundays in such a way that Sunday is a non-working day. Ireland and Latvia, Slovakia and Sweden have the most liberal working time arrangements on Sundays, where there are no restrictions on the work of shops on Sundays. In Italy and Greece Sunday is a day off, and only certain types of shops such as gas stations, souvenir shops, bakerys, flower shops and the like work. So, very similar regulation of the matter of working time as in Croatia. Finally, I would like to emphasise that the new Law on Trade wants to avoid current irregularities, the legislative uncoveredness of certain areas and the discrepancies with other laws. This law seeks to regulate trade activities in a unique way in order to create a legal basis for carrying out trade through a system of regulated national legislative rules in order to develop trade above all. I am convinced that the adoption of the law will positively reflect the creation of a good database for the measurement of trade, the fight against unfair competition, the reduction of unregistered economies, and the prevention of the gray economy, and the protection of employees and consumers. About 250,000 people work in a trade in the Republic of Croatia. The vast majority of all those employees in the store provide full support for this arrangement and working time in the trade in Croatia. So I ask you to discuss this bill and support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5318	Thank you. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. The first is Honorable Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5319	When he quoted the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Polancec, as being regulated in Austria and Germany, then he said they regulate it through Sunday's form as a day off. This is obviously not true because in Germany, stores can work 80 hours a year on Sundays. It's not true that Sundays don't even work in Italy. Fifteen days ago, I was in Milan. Not that everything works but even on Sundays is done longer than on Saturdays, usually from nine to ten o'clock or eight to eleven o'clock. In Italy, the number of working Sundays is finally determined, so in December everyone works in Italy while in Germany I said shops can work 80 hours a year. And in one Greece and Spain, the Spanish are more papal than the Pope, than the ban on Sundays, tourist settlements are excluded.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5320	Thank you. And a second correction to an incorrect quote by the esteemed representative of Luke Denon.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5321	Mr. Minister was obviously not in Italy on Sundays when he said Italy was banned on Sundays or not working on Sundays. As my colleague Cain and I can testify on Sundays, it is working in Italy and it is not the correct assumption that Sundays are not working.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5322	Thank you. Let's move on. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? The Legislative Committee? No, I don't. The Committee on European Integration? No, I don't. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health? No, I don't. The Tourism Committee? Yeah. Dear Representative Marin Brkarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5323	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Vice-President of the Government, colleagues and fellow MPs. At its 2nd session on 13 March, the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a law on trade, the first reading submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 6 March 2008. The Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a law on trade under Article 140. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, in part as regards the development policy of Croatian tourism, bear in mind that almost one-third of tourism consumption is achieved precisely in the sector of trade. In fact, trade is one of the important segments and components of tourism consumption. As regards the general issues to be regulated by the proposed law, support is provided for the necessary adaptation of the trade sector to the practice of countries with developed economy and emerging market conditions, thus creating a legal basis for further development of commercial activity. However, in particular, in the text of the proposed law, it can be argued that it is not adapted to the demands of modern tourism demand. In a very extensive and substantive debate involving all the present board members, the majority of the issue was related to the law provided for in the working time of the store, Articles 58 and 60. Several proposals and opinions have been presented on these issues. For the purposes of Article 60 of the proposed law, in view of the purpose of extending the tourist season, the work of shops should be extended to the period from 1 April to 1 October and throughout the year. In order to end the planned restrictions on trade on Sundays in tourist resorts, it is not justified that during the tourist season and especially in the coastal part of Croatia, trade must be completed by 21 hours, in particular, in the light of practices in other tourist countries of the Mediterranean. In order to allow a much more liberal approach to trade time, especially when it comes to trade in the Adriatic area of Croatia, where appropriate powers should be given to local administrations and self-government, that special attention should be paid to cities along the coast and in the continental part of Croatia as well. For units of local self-government in municipalities, cities and counties should be empowered to determine the start and end of working time in retail trade in their areas. On the basis of the debate, the Committee unanimously decided to propose the following conclusions to the Croatian Parliament: The proposal for a trade law is accepted except in part-time in the business of trade. It is proposed that the working hours of the store and other forms of trade are prescribed units of local self-government. All comments and proposals from the debate shall be addressed to the applicant for the preparation of the final draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5324	Thank you. The Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction? No, I don't. And the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. And the first ones are the clubs. And the first club is the HNS and the esteemed representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5325	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister with his associates. At the assessment of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party, we will not support this bill in the first reading, and I will explain why. But I want to say now, clearly and publicly, that it is now visible that several years of debate, the controversy in Croatia about Sunday's work, did not bear the contents of Sunday's work, but was still limited only to trade. Only one activity in this society that is likely to have become a subject of great interest for several reasons is that it is also one of the activities that the latest one started on Sunday, unlike the train driver, conductor, tram driver and bus driver, doctor, pharmacist, etc. The trade turned up last, caused the problem also because the owners, who first started doing it, were foreign trade chains, profits and work on Sundays, brought over workers' backs with shamelessly low wages because they did not pay on Sundays, did not provide weekdays, did not ensure the exchange of work on Sundays, with the restriction that they could not say more than 10 weeks a year. And from the beginning 11 hours when they were closing shops, then 13, then 16, they started working practically all day. And that's how I have to admit this now and their behavior is coming back as a boomerang, because the government has decided to ban such work. With this exaggeration, not accepting suggestions, advice, and warnings, they have now brought themselves in and will find it difficult to justify the government reaching out for one faith, such as a legal ban on Sundays. And holidays. However, we will not support it because we believe that the large number of solutions on the proposed law are not good, enforceable and that it will not benefit those for whom it is allegedly brought, which are workers and workers who work in the store, especially in retail and especially those who have been forced to do really work every Sunday, every holiday, that they had a four-hour contract every day, and they did 12 hours and all for 1500, 1800, 2000 is a big salary and the cashiers, the lack of cashiers, the shopping policy had to pay because their employers took it away from their salaries. ... coatuations and the rule of law because we admit that we have found no way to control the compliance of the law, which already exists a collective contract in a trade that already existed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, it would also be directed to read this Law in addition to the Consumer Protection Act, because the interests of customers and employees in this sector are most intertwined, so I remind and ask, and this Law speaks, in Article 10 on distance sales. That's when they call you at 9:00 p.m. and start offering you bed sheets over the phone. How many fines have been charged by the State Inspectorate for such behaviour so far? Without prior consent from the customer, as the Consumers Act writes. How much the state inspectorate has charged the fines, because that advertising material, or as I call it garbage, is left on the fences, no longer in the mailboxes, not just in the door, under the door, outside the door, but in the courtyards and settlements, by residential buildings and stairs. How much punishment has been charged for the goods declaration being printed in the case of two microns? Not two millimeters, two microns. How much punishment is indicated that on the label of the term of use up to, the glued price sticker, by accident? It's consumer protection. This law does not regulate that area, but jurisdiction for control and injury are the same bodies. So maybe it would be good if we could get those answers to see what kind of new law will now give benefits to consumers and employees? Article 15 is alleged to have been introduced at the union's request that trade employees must have a special condition of professional preparation, which will be prescribed by the minister. Those who work in the store are not subject to the provision, all new employees will be employed. I now warn here in the best possible way, if Mr. Vice President can follow me and the parliamentary colleagues do not disturb him, which can happen to such a provision when you merge Articles 15 and 80. The law? The person who works, he didn't finish the commercial school, but the mechanic, and he sells auto parts, spent 15 years at the store. Five days before the entry into force of this Act, the Treaty of Labour ceases and after the new Act enters into force if the minister prescribes that only citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have completed their commercial school should work in retail trade, he will never be able to work in trade again. Because his internship, which in all other professions and professions we recognized when we brought these provisions here, doesn't exist. Only caught on the day of entry into force of this Law. So that someone, 20 or 15, has been working in a store for 20 or 15 years, and you know that permanent employment in Croatia, unfortunately, no longer exists in this case, will mean that there are no legally provided conditions to be employed more in trade. Well, as much as you're better than the ones who finished school. Furthermore, sales are allowed without compensation in Article 23 and lists the rights of those who are allowed to do so, humanitarian institutions, associations and I strongly recommend that the word of the foundation be entered. The funds are also involved in humanitarian work, not associations or institutions, because they were formed under a special Foundation Act and if you don't enter them here, they won't have the right to do so. Let's say the foundation buys a cure for someone sick in Austria or Slovenia and brings it to Croatia and says, therefore, without paying itself, I remind the Deputy Prime Minister that according to other regulations and trusts and humanitarian associations, when he brings in, say, a drug or an orthopedic aid, he will pay both VAT and customs. It's just, by the way. We welcome that part of the Law, Article 31, which provides for measures to protect domestic production, in fact 29, but it seems to me that the solution offered on the procedure is a little vague and that the procedure should be shortened. Thus, the protection of domestic production, if not implemented quickly, is not effective enough, so you would kindly recommend that until the second reading of procedures and deadlines in Articles 29 and 31 try to shorten. Because something that takes three months no longer has the effect. Because when there is no artificial fertiliser in Croatia, for example, it will not be introduced for months, when the pig disappears, or the import within two days has been approved and arrived. Working hours of article 57 and beyond. There's a provision here that I wonder what it does in the Law on Trade in the provisions on the protection of whistles. Is that not an area regulated by the Labour Law? Are we really going to enter into all the laws, the Law on Roads, the Law on Forests, the Law on Health Activity, the Act on, oh, oh, a provision that belongs to the Labour Act and possibly the Law on civil servants and tenants? Why repeat this again, and again using vague ones. He says he has the right to report a reasonable suspicion of corruption or good faith, and then he'll be protected from firing. But if he abuses it, and it doesn't explain who determines the abuse. There are no courts in private companies, no proceedings, the boss decides to fire and everything. So we offer some kind of protection with terms and concepts that should not be the subject of this law at all, and that opinion has also given you the Trade Union, so that it does not see the reason for this provision to be in the Law on Trade, because it is the subject of labour rather than commercial legislation. Working hours from Monday to Friday from 6 to 21, Sunday and holidays don't work. But then there are exceptions, that five weeks a year, or five months a year, six, seven, eight and nine and December. In this year, it's 22 weeks. It's a match. So, which is now a difference in the protection of non-paid employees, instead of 52 weeks, will have a problem for 22 weeks. What is this solution for shop employees who haven't used the day off? Half the difference maybe, not anymore. What law offers a solution for those who have a four-hour contract and have to work 12 hours a day? Nothing. What is the difference why trade activity is more important even than health care or pharmacy? In fact, this will be the first law where the government, on a proposal from the Government, will define working time to detail, and for example, in the Health Protection Act, we do not have a provision on working time, bans or orders, but is allowed there to bring work time to the minister by regulation, not by law. So let's say for the pharmacy, and nobody's going to tell me that the store is more important than the pharmacy, there's a rule that says that drugstores work from Monday to Saturday, or Monday to Friday, between seven and twenty, on Saturdays between seven and thirty to fifteen, and outside of that special contract with HZZ, there's a duty, or alert. So one such important activity as pharmacy was not regulated by law by the working time, but by the minister's regulation. But at the store, we have to law forbid Sundays and some other days. Furthermore, what is important is that exceptions and we always make exceptions that Sundays can buy flowers and candles. And those flowers and candles are in all exceptions. I do not believe that simply flowers and candles in Croatia have more meaning than bread and milk. So then there are exceptions that they will be able to work in zoos, so they will be able to work at gas stations, so that they can be at airports, border crossings and when you add those exceptions together, then it will turn out like this, that citizens of Zagreb or Rijeka or Čakovec will be able to buy flowers and candles on Sundays normally whoever wants to work. But in Zagreb they will buy bread and milk in the zoo. Because the zoo shop works on Sundays. Go on. It provides for the law and the possibility, the authority of the inspector to close the store for at least 30 days and give five conditions, six why. This is Article 49. But imagine that she would protect the interests of the employees of the government did not propose and gave the inspector the right to close trade if he did not pay overtime if he did not pay them Sunday, if he concluded a half-time contract and forced workers to work full-time. If anyone finds him, undeclared workers, if he does not indicate or does not have the correct declaration especially of food products. If there is no highlighted price for the product or for the sale of goods whose useful period has passed. Under these conditions, in these cases trade will not be closed, but will only close if it has done something that has potentially damaged the state interests – budget, payments, marked working hours. So, if he doesn't point out the hours at the store door, he'll close it. But if everything I've read to you doesn't work, they won't close it. And at the end of the sentence that's scheduled. From 30 to 150, from 50 to 250,000 kuna. First, reduce those ranges. Second, as far as it would be wiser, do not prescribe the level of punishment in absolute terms, but tie them to daily traffic or income. It is not a matter of violation of a provision of this 25 squares trade law in which two traders work and in a trade chain. All the states, Mr. Vice President, which you have listed as sanctions, are bound by the level of daily traffic, and thus the small ones punish the smaller, the larger the stimuli resulting in, as well as the large and the workings of a far larger number of employees. I want to believe that these warnings and remarks... The time./... that I pointed out on behalf of the Croatian People's Party club will seriously consider, and in particular use of the Slovenian experience which was only after the referendum, so the Slovenians carried out a referendum on the subject, gave up the legal ban and regulated the work by collective agreement on Sunday, if we already mention and list the countries whose experience we have followed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5326	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, distinguished representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5327	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Prime Minister and honourable fellow MPs. Although my personal position differs partly from certain drafts of the law, I will speak by respecting those representatives who participated in the drafting of this law and who insisted that the law be proposed to the Croatian Parliament, and I will speak on their behalf, and you are just representing the employees of the trade, which are representatives of the union. When we talk about the Law on Trade, Croatia has its applicable law, which has fully and uniformly regulated this important economic activity since 1996, and since then, the current text of the law has been amended ten times and complemented. As a consequence of changes in economic, social, political action within the Republic of Croatia, as well as increasing Croatia's involvement in global integration processes. The internationalisation of Croatian trade, especially by entering foreign capital, has brought about more modern forms of trade and its liberalisation. Furthermore, the activity of trade as an economic branch with cca 260 000 employees, with 11% share in Croatia's gross social product, should be of interest to the entire economy of our country, taking care of the quality of services to consumers, and I would like to stress special consideration of workers, employees in trade with far more positive existential effects because they are often exposed to exploitation by individual employers. In view of the above, the need for further harmonisation with new market conditions and the adaptation of the practices of countries with a developed economy and taking into account the recommendations of the European Commission, it is important to create a solid legal basis for the even better functioning and future development of trade activity in our country. The proposed Law on Trade allows for the creation of equal conditions for the business of all economic operators involved in this activity, and taking into account the prevention of abuse at all levels, and I would particularly stress this suppression of unfair competition and grey economy. The creation of laws, as we heard at the beginning, included social partners as well as other associations, and it was the result of years of work, wishes, proposals by most authors. The proposed law defines economic concepts in the area of trade in order to better understand and apply the entities to which the law applies, for example, clearly states who can carry out trade activities on the market. In addition to legal and natural persons registered for the purpose of carrying out this activity, trade activities may also be carried out by farmers and agricultural holdings. Types of sales facilities and conditions of compliance with the minimum technical conditions are prescribed. At the request of the economic operator, unfair trading shall qualify for the sale of goods below its purchase price. This law prescribes more restrictive inspection supervision for both unfair competition and for the grey economy in which employees are used. The news that has recently been the media's most exposed has been working hours under the Law on Trade. Based on the applicable Law on Trade and the Rules on Working Time, the matter of working time is now not regulated uniquely in the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia, so it is very important to regulate the new law by week working time, Sundays and holidays uniquely. In the proposed Law on Trade, it is possible that the store during the week means from Monday to Saturday working from morning 6 to 21 o'clock a night, and Sundays and all holidays will be unworkable days. Due to the necessary supply of the population, the law also provides for exceptions. As Croatia's tourism country is the law at certain times of the year predicts an exemption to work on Sundays from 1 June to 1 October as well as throughout December when shops can work from 6 to 13 hours. With this sort of working time of trade, Croatia ranks in a group of European Union countries such as Italy, Austria, Germany, Greece, Finland that have similar working hours to trade. I didn't say the same thing, but I said the same thing. The proposed Law on Trade is better than the existing and for the purpose of the prescribed protection of workers from being fired, which is addressed by the competent authorities for breach of the labour law. The special protection of visionaries is also prescribed, meaning a person who submits, in good faith, claims of corruption on the basis of reasonable doubt, stating the circumstances and evidence that warrants suspicion. In the case of a slow burden of proof, it is transferred to the employer as usual, and so it is arranged and now by the Labour Act. Finally, the proposed Law on Trade aims at correcting the current uncertainty and neutralising the consequences of the legislative non-compliance of certain areas and discrepancies with other laws. Trade activity is regulated in a unique way in the Republic of Croatia, which will positively reflect the creation of a quality database for the measurement of trade, the fight against unfair competition, the reduction of the unregistered economy and the most important, the protection of employees and consumers. All of this should ultimately contribute to the development of this activity which plays a significant role in the Croatian economy. As we also know by entering the European Union, the market for the Republic of Croatia is becoming an integral part of the internal market of the European Community and will be directly applied to the European Union. For this reason, the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives Club supports the adoption of the proposed Law on Trade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5328	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5329	Dear Mr. Vice President, the esteemed Vice President of the Government, the esteemed gentlemen of the House of Representatives. In the first sentence that he began to describe this bill, the proponent literally states that trade as an important economic activity plays a key role in the economy. So trade is sort of the first economic branch in Croatia. Unfortunately, it would be better if it were industry, but from this skin you can't anymore. In this country where nothing is worth doing, nothing to export, but to just trade and politicize it is no wonder that then trade is our first economic branch. If it were different, the clear trade deficit of the Republic of Croatia would not be $12 billion at the end of the year, the trade deficit in January 2008 would not have reached $1,260 million and we would not have lost our coverage of exports from year to year. For example, the export coverage of imports was 72.2% in 2000 and 2008. 43.8%. So every day we're making more progress. Clearly, this does not concern the Proposer. They don’t care that some regions in this country will have to work harder so that others can spend more. We will now privatize the shipbuilding site. The unions don't care about those indicators. The care and the church that will certainly gain on the basis of the concordate. Why am I fighting for radical decentralisation, regionalization? That everyone means to run on his own, not to us, don't attack me like the last time, gentlemen from Bjelovar, Koprivnica, Osijek, Slavonski Brod determines in Istria when trade will work. You gentlemen Ministers, State Secretarys, etc., from these cities determine working hours in the environments you know. Don't let the Istrians who don't have anyone in the government, not the minister, not the secretary of state, not the director, not a thing, and then it's no wonder that the budget returns 0.06%, but that the Istrians fill it with 10%. With trade unions, for example, the Alliance of Independent Unions, I don't want to detach when it was supposed to have a loop in '98. Then were they not, in the battle for Ban Jelačić Square, which was then led by Mr. Kunst, today they announce protests that I welcome, but that hypocrisy about working on Sundays I attribute to the convenience of the Agrokora with which some people in that union work through the family. That's it. Second, let me just say, the first to break through the barricade down in Jurisic's and '98. The years were Stjepan Radic from HSS, his grandson Radic and Damir Cain. Well, it doesn't matter. The church has the right to ask for a week as well, but as I said earlier, it did not go after the pope in Italy, which would obviously follow Kaptola's hand. I agree that the church has either stopped or stood up in defense of national identity, but the government has also returned both money and denationalisation and status and influence, and in return it has often helped HDZ, and that should be said to be in power. But when it comes to them, I would solve this problem for them. If one year is 365 days and 53 weeks, and you defend that someone is working on Sundays, then you should be out of one week of the 360 million kuna you get. I assure you, he's been working all over Italy on Sundays. What's the problem? The worker is clear to pay. But don't deny the merchants work, especially don't do it in the season. If these people don't take advantage of the presence of a foreign guest in the season, then when will they? If two cruises are disembarked in Dubrovnik that week, it is clear that those people who spend should be allowed to simply spend that money. For example, you can't sell textiles on Sundays from 8 to 13 and 30 as you suggest when guests on the beach don't know how to swim or sleep. So stores have to be open from 15 to 21 or 22 hours. Let the people work. I claim that in two-thirds of the small merchants what people in power don't want to understand, that small trader in a worse position than a worker. Let's let go of the big chains. But I argue, this little craftsman is often in a harder position than the workers, if for nothing, and she who corresponds to all of her assets, we know that, with nothing, the worker corresponds normally to his work, he must pay both the rent and interest and VAT and goods and taxes and customs, and anyone who raises his hand for this law should first run one shop for seven or fifteen days, and only when he makes sure that it looks like voting for one such law. That amendment that turned up that up to five employees could work all the time I think it was good. These are family stores, small shops that, in conflict with the big ones, have no chance. In 2000, large trade chains, supermarkets, etc. covered 30% of the store. 80 percent today. That's the one thing I said, they don't stand a chance. With these bans, the small ones will be even weaker, the big ones even stronger. But the state will also be poorer, and the unions will be louder and louder in seeking their rights. Okay, fair enough. The trade activity in the first three quarters of 2007 generated an income of 174,21 billion kuna, while 169,86 billion kuna was recorded in the same period in 2006. Otherwise, the data yesterday say that the total number of employees working in the distribution trade increased by as much as 40.8 thousand, meaning from 216 thousand in 2006 to 257 thousand last year, and the traffic generated by legal persons including value added tax increased by more than 40 billion kuna to a total of 271 billion kuna. From that number to the retail trade, a turnover increase from 71.6% to 86.4 billion kuna and more than 20% respectively was reported. So it says that, it all says that trade is the strongest activity in Croatia. In only one county, in the County of Istria, there is another behind the industry. Otherwise, in all parts, she comes first. And I'm really asking you to let these little shops in the season so I can work while they want. In the season from 1.6 to 1.10, we have 16, 17 weeks, 4 or 5 holidays. Instead of extending the season to 120 days, we bring that season down to 90 days. I repeat, once again I will say, for the third time, someone from Bjelovar cannot know better than Istrian how shops in Istria should work. And don't hurt us gentlemen in government. Let the authorities stop paying back their debts to their political partners, the church that may have led you to power. Furthermore, I am clear against the fact that religious science is abolished, absolutely against it, but I am also willing to say that this law is harmful. It is not a problem that in Croatia, trade is done on Sundays, but that workers are employed for a certain period of time or because they are not adequately paid. But how is that possible to change when in Croatia no one knows who, when and how much they will work. Imagine that some fool now comes to mind and in Croatia it is all possible that the host cannot work on Sundays. Why doesn't the church mention it now? Why is the union silent about such work? Why doesn't the ruling coalition mention it? Because they'd be clearly ridiculous. But then let those little merchants work too, especially in the season. Why do they have to make gas stations, let's ask ourselves. Well, you don't have a gas station worker in the West anymore, so you're a gas man yourself. You come with a card, you put the money in the machine, and you pour yourself as much gas as you pay for it. Life can't be organized without work and Sundays. Inspectors clearly control working conditions, wages, rest, I don't know, etc. But once again, a man asks himself why the inspector would then work on Sundays. Why should hypocrites who propose this law on Sundays go to football games and so forth, watch as someone runs there for them even though gentlemen are usually those who run and those who watch them. We're talking about the unemployed, we're asking people to get a job. Where will people get the easiest job? Well, it'll be the easiest job in the store. I said, in a year, the number of employees increased by 40,000 and 800, in a year, 2006, 2007. We encourage people to start their own business. So where's the easiest thing to do? Well, here's your data. Of course, at the store. Now, whether the introduction of Sunday as a day off in the shops can lead to a violation of the freedom of believers who are not on a day of rest. Jews celebrate Saturday, adventists also celebrate Saturday, Islamic believers have their main prayer on Friday. And therefore, the Labour Act must define a one-day vacation without stating that day and a clear Sunday should be paid. Is someone going to rush to church for a week off? Well, I'd love to, but I doubt it's gonna happen. How has this issue been regulated by Europe? For example, Sweden has no restrictions on Sundays and holidays. Neither does the UK have restrictions on small shops. What was unconstitutional was declared by the Constitutional Court when Mr Linic suggested that small shops which I think are good to do on Sundays. But the big ones can work from 10 to 18 hours on holidays and Sundays. Whether, in Belgium, the Netherlands has been determined the number of working weeks. For example, in Italy in December, everyone works while in Germany shops can work 80 hours a year on Sundays. In Gračko and Spain, I said before that the Spanish are more papal than the ban on tourist resorts. I'd even say that in the tourist resorts of the city's image, they have to work as well as 9:00, 10:00 in the evening. So yesterday I read in "The New List" an interview by Mr. Fižulić which raised the question of what will happen in one Dubrovnik if, as I said, they land that Sunday one or two cruisers, in one Pula. It doesn't matter, or where in Split. Well, clearly, let's give people a chance where they want to spend it. This law, gentlemen, costs money. Who's it cost? It costs the state, costs the merchants, costs the citizens, etc. Maybe it won't lead to a downturn in the store, that won't lead to it. Croatia is slowly running out of labour but will drop its income to traders and that means that the state will also run out of part of VAT revenue. Fizulic calculated 50m euros. This is, for example, a minister in the former government who did it by 2000 because of Astaldia or because of this Slavonska banka. This is how we get into recession now. The gross social product is growing slower than inflation, tourism towards this Easter will hardly repeat last year's figures. Come on, it probably will. In Istria, Easter failed 30%, in Croatia over 50%. Exporters are in trouble because of a strong kuna. And now we're still hitting the store. If this law is to be mindful of the solution to get out of all this, then you should support it. But I assure you gentlemen this law of many, many will do enormous financial damage, small merchants in the end and the state itself. For the end, fines. What is proposed so I'm going to say quite frankly, it's not normal. You need to step on the ball a little bit. Does anyone think in this government how to make money? It's easy to spend when that money comes to the government or to the budget of local self-government what someone else has earned. However, I assure you that it is far more difficult to make money than to direct it from the budget later. It's easy to punish but it's the real question of how money means making money. It's a bit of a bigger problem, so let the gentlemen of the government work, let the work be paid, not that the only idea is to defend people from working and having. What the IDS Club accepts is the opinion of the Tourism Committee. In this committee which unanimously reached these conclusions are not only representatives of the IDS Brkarić or Mr Denon from the SDP, but also Mrs Šuica from Dubrovnik, Hrelja from Pula, Cappli from Mali Losinj. And you all unanimously supported provisions that were not in line with what Mr Polancec later proposed and defended the representative of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5330	Thank you. Before further discussion, one notice. Members of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security 4th session of the Committee will be held today at 13:30 in the hall Ante Starcevic (149). Well, members of the board, go ahead. Let's move on. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations of the esteemed representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5331	Thank you, Mr. President. So I have to correct an allegation absolutely incorrect that the church brought HDZ to power. I mean, we're bringing this back to her right now. Namely, it should be said that the church has helped some of its statements to get fewer votes than we have received, but it is absolutely true that the church did not recognize the IDS program.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5332	Thank you. Resumption of the debate. On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Marijana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5333	Mr. Vice President, MPs and MPs, Mr. Representatives of the Government. The adoption of a new Law on Trade in Obligations is which we must fulfil since we are now operating on an outdated law and on a rule based on which municipalities and cities are arbitraryly prescribing trade hours, thus allowing for an incorrect business advantage for those employers who break the law because they reach up to 60 working days more or even 20% per year. It is not only the workers who have been disproved but also the state that has been cut off. The HSS has just been guided by the principle of the protection of workers but also by the fact that we are a country belonging to Christian civilization, when we proposed in 2003 amendments to the Law on Trade which was adopted in the Croatian Parliament and the aim was to define Sunday as an unworkable day, which has been established among other things by a series of conventions which Croatia has not only signed but also ratified. The same law unfortunately abolished the Constitutional Court's judgment by appeals by trade chains, their like-mindeds and lobbyists, explaining this abolition that the equality of entrepreneurs within the trade sector has been violated. We sincerely hope that this Law will not experience the same fate, since intensive communication has been carried out, agreement between the social partners and agreement has been reached that it is necessary to adopt this Law and that each party should be prepared to compromise. And we at the HSS Club welcome every shift and every adjustment of this problem, which is complex and dynamic, is aimed at protecting workers and workers in the store. Of the 260 thousand shop employees, three-quarters are women. So this is about 200 thousand women, mothers, who need to be protected from overwork, from exploitation, they need to be provided with existence, but also to allow them to be with their family. Many employers, they can say freely, when they spend people, throw them on the street, and then they end up at the Employment Office and the state pays their fees. It is a public secret that many trade chains take workers for a certain time, then take the incentive to hire them and then fire them. We think it is necessary to find a solution that will contribute to the organisation of society, but also to its stabilisation, and we think that this is precisely one of the most important issues. Croatia is a signator of the 106 Convention on Offices and Trades, where Article 3 clearly defines the non-working day by tradition which is in Croatia Sunday. The labour law in Article 46 of Sunday is an unworkable day, so only the necessary jobs can be done, which is certainly not a trade, and especially not buying washing machines or home theaters. In addition, Croatia signed a contract with a sacred chair within which it is, this issue is also more than clearly defined by Article 9 where Sunday is indicated as a working day. In accordance with Article 9(1) of the Treaty, the Contracting Parties shall sit together and agree if there is a change of days which is not the case here. We know that according to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, international legal agreements are above the law, so I think it will be particularly interesting and dynamic this year to monitor the reports that Croatia will have to bring about the implementation of these conventions. The share of employees in trade accounts for 17.3% of the total number of employees in the Republic of Croatia. It's about 260 thousand employees who work at over 50,000 shops, and it's estimated to work between 30,000 and 40,000 store workers on Sundays. Perhaps even more so if family members who work at the store on Sundays are involved in other activities during the week. Many work seven days a week, they don't have one day off, and so do holidays and days off. In some shops, workers have not had a single day off in six months, although it is legally guaranteed. Over-hours at the store is so much that you could hire another 10,000 people. Therefore, notices of layoffs coming from the mouth of certain trade chain leaders are assessed as estimating and immoral. Most workers are not paid at all on Sundays, holidays and days of work, with well-known low wages at the store. Some trade chains work on three shifts, or 24 hours a day, all 7 days a week, so that workers do not know in advance which shifts they will work on, but they are obliged to wait on alert when the employer invites them, so that they do not lose their jobs. So workers are forced to agree to inhuman working conditions, as they are often under direct blackmail pressure by firing. Many families don't have one day a week so they can be together. And in cases, though rare, when workers in exchange for Sunday's work get a second day off, it can't be an adequate substitute because other family members don't have that day off. Even a number of employers do not consider trade to be necessary and profitable Sundays and holidays, but many are driven by unfair competition in which, apart from workers, small entrepreneurs, or craftsmen, suffer, and there are 22 thousand registered in trade. The problem of working time stores lately, of course, except for Croatia gathers other European countries as well. So here we could hear a series of examples. I will list some who support that just like the law we are proposing today is the best option for opportunities in Croatia. In Austria it is forbidden to work on Sundays and holidays with exception during the tourist season, and we can say that it is this bill that we are discussing today that is closest to the Austrian model. In Germany, the rule is, when it comes to working on Sundays for stores, it's a day off, but there are exceptions. It's a similar situation in Denmark, where in principle shops are closed while small shops work unlimitedly. In Finland, shops work on Sundays and holidays from 12 to 15 hours, only in June, July and August, plus 5 weeks following the decision of the resolution ministry. In Norway, allowed work only three weeks before Christmas from 14 to 20 hours. In Greece, as a rule, major shops are closed on Sundays, while in smaller places and tourist areas there are no restrictions on work. It is evident from the above that other countries and tourist destinations are also more difficult to work on Sundays and holidays especially because those shops that are on call and shops in tourist resorts are quite enough to meet the basic needs of tourists. In addition, we do not seek to attract tourists who will buy a sandwich or a Pariser in the store but who will be better able to pay and who will have lunch in restaurants or in rural tourist economies. Sunday is also the day of the meeting, and through all possible media we are forced into a new lifestyle with, where instead of with children that parents don't see all week long going to shopping centers, instead of on Sljeme or in Maksimir. While many iron cards, they do not think of profit being made by someone who may not live in Croatia at all, being served by someone who does not remember when he had the last day off and when he last saw his family. And they forget those topics maybe they're running away from after shopping. This Law certainly does not solve all open issues but is a significant contribution to system arrangement. We believe that the law should be more restrictive when it comes to the import of agricultural, food products, especially those in Croatia, and therefore we think that the law should show a clear commitment to the protection of domestic production. During last year, more than $2 billion of food was imported into Croatia. Many of the products served by our consumers have been expelled from the trade of European countries because their deadline of use has long expired but are therefore served to our citizens. And I think that's what's going on, and I think that's where there's a lot of irregularity going on, and that's what needs to be done, because that's how our citizens are in an unequal position, and I can say that sometimes because of their petty profits, they get dumped. The Argentine beef should be written that it is from Argentina, and the New Zealand sheep must not be sold as a Pag lamb as it is today. The powdered milk imported from Bosnia, with little water added to it in Croatia, is not from a cow that pastures in Žumberk or Lonjsko polje. Consumers also have the right to know and choose whether to buy such a product at all. However, if we know that we have a surplus domestic product on the market in Croatia, we should know that the same product is only much worse quality not introduced into Croatia, and that should allow us to give good laws. One of them should certainly be this Law on Trade, which must be aimed at protecting domestic production. The same applies to exports with the most drastic example of last year's exports of wheat, the collection of bread, and then the imports of wheat at only a significantly higher price than it was exported. The question is, did we export it so we could reintroduce it and who it used to be? What we can welcome is the introduction of domestic sales for peasant family economies, which will contribute to their registration. But also make it easier for them to place their product on the market. The HSS Club believes that the adoption of the Law on Trade is certainly a step forward because it contributes to the arrangement of the system and the protection of workers and therefore we will support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5334	Thank you. We have an incorrect correction of an incorrect assumption. Dear Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5335	Mr. Vice-President, I would like to correct my distinguished colleague, Petir, who said among other things that cities and municipalities, or units of local self-government, could have arbitraryly determined the time of trade in small and large, so that as far as I could understand, they were able to harm everyone. I mean, it's not true. Local self-government units could only determine working hours according to an existing rule that had practically its legal provision, i.e. on a working day from 7 to 22 and on Sundays 8 to 13 with traders themselves able to do so and shorten it. However, what I want to point out now is that these shops are in accordance with that rule, but also with the holiday laws work on Easter, because Easter as the greatest Catholic holiday in the holiday law was not a holiday, but an ordinary Sunday.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5336	Thank you. You've corrected an incorrect quote. Thank you. Let's move on. SDP club. In the name of the club, distinguished representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5337	Mr. Vice President, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. Although this law, the new Law on Trade actually means harmonising with European legislation and bearing the label P.Z.E. He's in the first reading, and we think it's good, because the law needs significant improvement. That's also why we won't vote to pass this law in our first reading. The Proposer explains the creation of a new Law on trade of major challenges of this activity on the market, increased competition, concentration of new technologies, development of electronic business. The new legislation says the promoter should ensure its smooth growth and development, and bring it closer to developed countries with a developed economy. The aim is also to curb the unfair market, i.e. the competition and minimise the unregistered economy. Therefore, the objectives are well established. One of the important objectives is to ensure a good supply of consumers. But what is the difference in this new law compared to the existing Law on Trade, which was passed 12 years ago, but in the meantime, he suffered several changes. Looking at nomo-technically he's somewhat more transparent text. It stands out immediately in the introduction of the definition, but we estimate that it is in a more substantive sense worse than the existing law. For example, certain forms of trade are reduced to a definition that is left to regulate rules or regulations. Otherwise, the law leaves much to the minister to regulate it by special acts, which then violates the content of the law and can totally change it in some segments. I'm going to say here, for example, how the auction was defined. Then, trade is defined as a large, retail trade, trade in transit, and trade intervention such as stock exchange services is omitted, which is very important in agriculture that we do not have regulated in Croatia by law or by any special act. Then, commissions services, agency services, exclusive or selective distribution, franchise etc. For example, with markets as a traditional way of trading especially agricultural products. They're not regulated by this law as a trade. They're regulated by the Law on the Communist Economy. I personally consider that a special market law should also be adopted, as this would actually mean the possibility of trading to small farmers. The law does not refer to the desired concentration of trade, or the density of the store to the population or to the minimum distance of large shopping centres from the settlement. With us, they actually started to find themselves in the centers themselves. For example, you cannot open a large shopping mall, for example in the city center, either in Slovenia or Austria. If so far we have sinned and filled our many entrepreneurial zones with shops, it should not be done in the future. What is the paper actually in the law is a project of shop typeology and we estimate that it is a good move, and when it comes to the prescribed professional preparation needed for sellers, cashiers and commercial managers it is defined in the same way as in the current law, so that this special conditions of professional preparation will be regulated by a special act. We don't think that's good, and it should be fixed by the second reading. As for the part relating to foreign trade, it seems to us that the existing law better regulates the documents on the origin of goods and temporary imports and exports. The existing law also clearly regulates the examination procedure, which determines excessive imports. In addition to the protection against excessive imports, we believe that it is necessary to establish and protect against imports of non-quality so-called ‘species’. a bofl of goods which is particularly present in textiles and clothing. Since trade relations are regulated by other laws, as stated in the very reasoning of the Consumer Protection Act, on the protection of competition, foreign exchange law and some other laws, the new Law on Trade does not in fact differ significantly from the existing one, except, in fact, the most important part, the regulation of working time. Thus, in the new Law on Public Trade, the central place is taking up precisely the working time, as usual speaking, banning Sundays. That is why some political parties are also occupied by trade unions and the Catholic Church. It is in Croatia's tradition that Sunday is a week's vacation and it is generally legal and labour law. The labour law defines 40 hours a week, and in Articles 44 to 58. The labour law defines holidays and leaves and determines the week's rest on Sundays, and if it is a week's workday, one day's rest must be provided for each working week. The Labour Act also provides for difficult working conditions, excessive night work and for working on Sundays and holidays an increased amount of salary. So it's already been regulated by labour legislation. How is the schedule arranged? It can be established by law as to what it is trying to do here, so by special law, collective agreement, contract of working councils and employers, contract of work, and if none of these are established, then the employer shall decide on the schedule of working time. So here we do a little bit different work hours than the Labour Act said. So working hours are regulated by the Labour Act, but as in other cases control is weak. It is not enough just to pass the law, but to implement the law and to monitor its application, which is the responsibility of the Executive Authority, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Why inspection services are a more inefficient cause should actually be sought in the efficiency, i.e. ineffectiveness and organisation of the general public and state administration. The new Law on Trade in Articles 57 to 63 regulates the working time of trade and exemptions from such prescribed working hours. The trade will not work on Sundays except from 1.6 to 1.10 and at 12 months. Thus, a total of five will be worked, i.e. the possibility of working on Sundays for five months a year. So we're still not consistent here. The exceptions introduced by the law may be a re-condition for a constitutional suit because those exceptions can actually significantly increase the number of items in shops that can work on Sundays and thus sell because customers will only change the location and will likely shop across borders. In fact, this part does not mean harmonisation of legislation but a bad compromise within the ruling coalition. It would also raise the question of why daily working hours are defined in the range of 6 to 21 instead of perhaps starting to be later or ending around 22 hours, as these are the first two shifts otherwise determined as working hours. In particular, this is a matter of summer time and tourist resorts, and it is completely illogical that the Law on Trade in Article 57, in just two paragraphs, is actually trying to solve so - called. whistles would be more appropriate to be dealt with through the Labour Act or perhaps through a special law. It is indisputable that workers in trade as usual should be protected from the will of employers. Shop employees are underpaid, their hours are mostly higher than the law established 40 hours a week. There is a particular problem for small shop employees who are usually employed in one shift, who is both a cashier and a merchant and a warehouse worker and administrator and cleaning lady, so all the jobs that occur in the facility. There would be a lot of work to do for inspection and inspection, because they work longer than 40 hours a week, instead of a week's vacation, they're written free days that they can't normally take advantage of. Therefore, the proposed provisions of the law will not, in fact, solve the problem of working time or the problem of protecting workers in trade. In fact, looking at the theoretically that we have effective control over whether there are sufficient numbers of employees in trade compared to established working hours, whether they are paid an increase in wages. Now it is no longer defined how much greater it must be compared to the day of the week, work in the week because it is left to collective bargaining. Many traders do not allow union organisation and in practice it could actually increase wages by just one lip for Sundays. Whether they are provided with a week's rest next week etc. In such a case, trade could work 24 hours if the employer paid for it. I believe that not one percent of the trade in Croatia would then work on Sundays if it were actually controlled and it had to be paid. When it comes to supervision and administrative measures, we appreciate the need to analyse and bring about the necessary amendments to the State Inspectorate Act, i.e. the overall view of what needs to be changed in inspection procedures. And finally something about criminal provisions. Greater penalties have been proposed in the range of legal persons compared to the existing law and smaller penalties for responsible persons. We think it should be coordinated until the second reading. We estimate that the proposed text of the law will not, in fact, provide for the objectives set by the legislator, or by the legislator, that it will not solve either the problem of working time or the problem of protecting workers in trade. And therefore we will not vote in favour of the proposed text of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5338	Thank you. And club HSLS, HSU, distinguished representative Ivan Chehok.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5339	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies, colleagues and colleagues! Today we're discussing the Trade Act. There are few laws, there are few legislative proposals, there are few legislative documents that have caused even before we have even joined the debate to vote with such public attention. And behind it has such a sensitized part of the public or parts of the public or even perhaps opposing and conflicting groups in the public like this law. To me, it would be, I must say, much more expensive if we were to sensitize the public or if we had conducted a public debate, a heated and harsh discussion about, for example, the Law on Industry, the Law on Industrial Production, the Law on the Encouragement of Investments, which, unfortunately, is not implemented in this form in Croatia. For example, the law on technology parks or some other laws that I appreciate at this point would be very welcome to Croatia or to the public, about this widest forum of mind as it is said in the philosophy of politics, about a broad forum in which everyone can express their opinion and make sure that its own rights are protected. It would be more natural in particular given the economic indicators, economic structure in Croatia, it would be far more natural for us to discuss and make the public sensitive to industry, industrial production, employment growth, technological parks, free zones especially in view of negotiations with the European Union, to other laws. However, we are indeed discussing today the Law on Trade listening to the current and public debate, simply because it is true that trade is our basic activity, but not traditional, the Croats were not during the history and construction of this country very good traders, except perhaps Dubrovnik and some local areas, but rather they were more engaged and worked and lived and lived from production, from crafts, steel production, industry, than they lived from trade. It's just that in this trade exchange with the world as well as today, we didn't do very well, so it's really weird that trade, if it's not weird, maybe our basic activity today is either mainly economic activity or our first economic activity, to cause this kind of controversy, so it's even weirder to say right now, that unfortunately we're not discussing what we should fundamentally discuss when it comes to this law. It is the protection of domestic production, it is the reduction of tax ejaculation, it is in some way a reduction or mitigation of the grey economy in the area of trade, it is the ultimate possibility of controlling the origin of goods, it is a whole series of mechanisms and instruments that today every country that protects a truly national economy must have in order, for example, to reduce imports of non-quality goods. We will not debate today that unfortunately our children are playing toys produced in the Far East that are harmful to the health of children as proven. Today, we are not discussing that unfortunately, citizens, since the difficult economic and social situation in Croatia are carrying goods, textile goods from imports, again from distant countries that are extremely harmful to the skin, to the health of citizens. We're not discussing today, just Miss Petyr talking about selling us lambs from New Zealand or some other countries under the shepherd's lamb, that the Argentins are selling us beef, that there are no effective mechanisms of control of the origin of the goods. We're going to discuss trade, about this law which is still significantly better about these mechanisms, not still what we need, we're going to need to change many regulations Mr. Minister of Economy, we're talking about it all the time, the quality rules, the quality of the goods, the control of the origin and the quality of the goods. But right now, we're just going to be able to get the debate back to work on Sundays. And in this way we will actually narrow down the public debate, which not only discusses Sunday's trade but also discusses Sunday's work in general, not just Sunday's work, but also discusses paying for work at all. As a party, we have opened phones precisely to targeted common traders, those who work in stores and 75% of all who have responded are not as the primary issue and as their primary difficulty and possible violations of labour rights warned work on Sundays but pointed out that their work during the week, their labour rights are not protected. So, not on Sundays, but otherwise, their labour rights were not protected. They were exposed to the mercy of the employer, they were often victims of the employer's exhibitionism, they were not paid for what they did on weekdays or during the week, they had not had enough free time, they had no right to rest and during the week. Therefore, it is not a key issue, I want to say it completely and openly on behalf of the party, the key question is, in my opinion, when it comes to working on Sundays is not just the work of shops or shops at all, such as the key issue of Croatian employment today, but work on Sundays at all. How much society appreciates, first of all, how much do employers appreciate and value the work of our workers? And on the other hand, what we, as a legislative body and government, do to protect workers' rights, are key issues. With this debate, ladies and gentlemen, whether you like it or not, we're actually going to narrow it down, and we're going to put a scopus on just one question, and we're going to become one-sided, and we're actually going to sort of have this whole spectrum of difficulties that workers are facing today, and then, of course, trade, but then in the ultes of lines and our citizens just because we don't have mechanisms that we can control the origin of the goods precisely because we don't have effective inspection mechanisms, so we're going to narrow down that debate. What I can say in general by taking as a liberal we are against excessive normation. We believe that excessive norms actually already in the beginning with laws that are too normative exceed the whole thing. Life resists administration, life resists excessive norms, and we fear that with too much normation, we might actually get counterproductive effects. So, in these circumstances, we have a requirement to have as few norms as possible, to have as few items as possible that determine things very closely and rather strictly determine things, but on the other hand, we have the fact that, unfortunately, we have too little protection or too little protection of workers' rights and that, in particular, women who work in trade and other activities, so not only in trade, in catering, for example, so if you want to be with us and in industry, they are not sufficiently protected. The government and all of us ladies and gentlemen here should choose between these two principles, the principles of entrepreneurial freedoms and the principles of the protection of workers' rights. In my opinion, we won't be able to do it in the first reading, but in the second, we could. There are ways in particular if we include and if we finally believe as a legislative body and local self-government what someone has already talked about regardless of regions and regional specificities, if we allow them to contribute to the implementation of this law with their instruments, then we will have fewer norms but we will actually have greater effects. First of all, I think of what we tried to do as a pilot in Varazdin that it is possible for our cities to determine on-call neighborhood shops. In this way, for example, any store in a particular neighborhood might be either a fourth city or a smaller place, in one whole place perhaps on call once every two months, so it could work. So we'd make sure those people can work. But on the other hand, we wouldn't have to work every Sunday. So there would be some kind of compromise. It is possible to imagine a compromise if, of course, we enter into the game and trust local self-government. I think that by the second reading we should definitely think about it, especially since unfortunately if we accept that the shops will work on Sundays and holidays only from 1.6 to 1.10th, we, in fact, have directly challenged our basic orientation and government and this House of Commons. We all think that tourism is a tourist activity, that tourism is primarily an economic area or an economic branch based on which Croatia will develop. These are strategic documents and those of the government before and from this government. I ask you what kind of tourism we are going to develop if we advancely claim and legally determine that the tourist season is from 1.6 to 1.10. There is no country in the world that can live three months or four months of work. We should strive for our tourist season not to be from 1.6 to 1.10, but to be at least from 1.3 to 1.12. or 1.11. If one Prague can earn on tourism almost as much as the whole of Croatia. I don't know now the last data maybe even more. Then I ask you what kind of a tourist country we are going to be, a holiday country, a country worth coming to if we actually force ourselves in this law to have a tourist season of what's going on between 1.6 and 1.10. So, Mr. Vice President, that's what you need to think about. This is certainly not 1.6 to 1.10, and certainly regardless of these regional differences, of course, someone living in Osijek or Konavla must think about Istria, but certainly we will create great difficulties for the citizens in these tourist environments and for entrepreneurs and then, of course, for the workers. Therefore, I think that when we look at this law in general, however, it brings significant improvements, especially when it comes to protecting what we are asking for as a party and whistle and protecting from mobbing and stricter inspection, and I would like to warn that there is a need to comply with the law of violation so that we do not again have two laws that will be mutually coordinated, bringing stricter inspection supervision, strengthening measures, introducing finally and anti-dumping measures, we are finally talking about some activities and typeologies that were not available to date. But I think that another reading should also consider introducing local self-government into the story, allowing local self-government to determine the working time of trade according to the law, because this is a way to compromise, to reconcile on the one hand entrepreneurial freedom and the right to work, and the right to pay these workers to work on Sundays and on the other hand to protect workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5340	Thank you very much. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5341	A wrong colleague claimed that all the predecessors were just talking about working on Sundays. Dragica Zgrebec, speaking on behalf of the club, said that it was good, which is bad in the law and specifically referred to the protection of workers' rights to their own labour rights or to violations of these rights of people and their own women in trade. That's what you support, and that's what you pointed out in your debate, but it's not you. You are in power so you are primarily invited to call such problems to solve rather than here to ask and comment on actually discussing discussions and to play a little bit of opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5342	Thank you. Thank you. I shall inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure have expired time to apply for a debate of 10 minutes at 12 o'clock. On behalf of the government, Croatian Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Entrepreneurship Mr Damir Polancec.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5343	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, at first allow me to thank all those who have discussed this subject so far as well as all those who have applied for the debate during today's session of the Parliament and to thank you from the heart on behalf of all of us who have worked on this Law on your contribution. We have come up with this Law and we have put it into the parliamentary procedure in a way that goes into two readings exactly aware of the fact that a detailed comprehensive debate is necessary on the individual segments of this Law and, of course, with the wish and determination to draw out the best from your discussions, and to draw the most out that a good part of what you suggest, what you offer, what you propose and install in the final text of the law that we will prepare naturally for the second reading. You'll agree with me that it's not possible to answer all those questions and all those dilemmas that were heard here today, I'll try, so I'll try, answer some dilemmas and some questions that were most often mentioned. So one question, one of the dilemmas was why did the bill not give the possibility to work on small family shops? I have to say, we've discussed this a lot, we've discussed a lot with both social partners, so unions, and employers. And there's one single logical explanation for the fact that this opens up the space for such a law to fall back in the Constitutional Court, which is why we simply gave up. And I have to inform you that the leading union, the trade union, was against this solution because in one text, therefore, we had at the very session of GSV the text of the law in which we, therefore, had that we could work on Sundays of family trade with, first trade with maximum five employees, later, in a later discussion, family trade, we gave up both, because it would open up space to maybe some big employers, some big shopping malls right there find a foothold for breaking the law at the Constitutional Court. That was one of the reasons why we didn't finally install that solution, we didn't install this text in front of you. So, next thing you know, I'd like to comment. Why the tourist season cannot be declared in certain areas of the Republic of Croatia, so that it can be done differently during that period. So, tourist season, the Tourism Act, like, I'll say, the basic Act of Tourist Activity, doesn't define the concept of the tourist season. So we couldn't invite ourselves to this Law to the concept of the tourist season when it wasn't as a concept of any law defined. And just making sure that the increased inflow of consumers in Croatia is in the summer months, therefore, of 1. 6 to 1 October, as during the 12 months, we went to such a legal solution. Why isn't it possible for local self-government units to regulate their working hours? And that's the situation we have today. In my opening address, I said that we have over 500 cities and municipalities that today, at the level of headship, regulate their working hours. We have a very colorful working time, not only on Sundays but also during the week, and that makes it difficult for inspection supervision amongst other things, and therefore we are going to a one-bit worktime issue on a Sundays level, in a country-wide trade. Why work hours from 6 to 21, working days, or from 6 to 13 hours a week during the summer months and December? So once again, this is work material, this is a proposal, this is a law in first reading. If you think, you have the argument that it can be from 6 to 14, if you think it can be from 7 to 14, if you think on a working day, so, 6 days a week for trade shouldn't be between 6 and 21, it can be 6 to 23, we're ready to discuss it, we've had such discussions with both employers and trade unions. So we are prepared to make adjustments in this direction if we jointly conclude that this is necessary. Now, there's been a lot of concern about all those who are newly employed in trade, there's been a lot of concern about the possible fall in GDP, and I'm going to remind you of the next fact. At the end of 2003, when the Trade Act that fell in the Constitutional Court was passed and when it started in its application, and in its application it was not known, for 3.4 months, I must tell you that the data from the Ministry of Economy, the State Department of Statistics, then the Employment Office, do not speak of any decline in the number of employees in trade. So I assure you, despite the fact that some employers are taking this as an argument, I assure you that there will be no trade, no downfall, no downfall of the number of employees, be assured of that. Each of the merchants, will try to fight for the consumer, will try to fight for the buyer, nor will traffic fall, nor will the number of employees in the store fall, I am deeply convinced of that. The state inspectorate, the state inspectorate, was often heard in these discussions, often referred to him. Of course, it's not an area to edit this, this Law, but I'm just as aware of the sub-capacitation of the state inspectorate as most of you are. The debate on the state inspectorate is expected here on Friday at GSV, and what I can tell you is why I personally but most of us in the government advocate what we are going to do, is, of course, an increase in the number of employees in the state inspectorate, especially in the field of labour legislation, labour inspections because indeed, there is indeed this number of inspectors who cannot respond to market requirements, cannot respond to the requirements of the problem. And there will definitely have to be places to increase wake-ups to hire new state inspectors, above all, in the working legislation. There was also concern that we were underprotecting domestic production and that we might be able to protect some additional articles of this Law from domestic production. I have to say it like this. So we need to be aware of what we signed in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Everything, but just all the tools that allow us the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which are either related or can be treated as tools for protection, so domestic production we have installed everything in this law. I will list only some – customs, contingents, anti-dumping measures, compensation fees, import and export licences. They're all built into this law. As I run out of time, three more topics are very short. Product labelling, therefore, Regulation on the product declaration as well as rules on the quality of the product. I also believe that this is an area that we can do more and in which we can protect domestic production. But it's not the area of the Trade Act. It's the area of the Food Act. The overtime payment Mr. Lesar spoke of, also the area of the Food Act. He's an expert. Why did we not go to the strict regulation of the necessary professional arrangements for a particular post in the law trade, but we made a commitment to the regulation. One of the reasons, perhaps not most important, but one of the reasons he insisted on it was the union. Therefore, union representatives have just insisted that special rules be prescribed for the necessary expert preparation for a particular post in trade. And now, finally, why with so many sublegal acts, we're going to provide for legislation in this area. Because this is a complex law, because being pragmatic is easier and easier to lay down rules, change regulations than possibly go to the amendments and additions of the Trade Act. Here, these are in the shortest lines the most important answers to the most important questions and dilemmas you've asked yourself. Once again, I invite you to a constructive debate. This law is important to all of us. Important first of all for 250,000 people who work at the store, and trust me and you will see after today's debate in every store you enter asking me and will ask you when will finally the Law on Trade, when will finally be banned on Sundays. That's what those 250,000 people who work at the store ask. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5344	Thank you. We move to an individual debate for which 21 MPs and MPs have been reported in total. The first is Honorable Representative Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5345	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Government, the Honorable Madam in the Government. What about the Law of Trade? It is important to say that trade is an important economic activity that plays a key role in the economy. Trade activity today faces major market challenges such as increased competition, the concentration of new technologies, and as a result of overall globalisation. In view of the fact that the activity of trade was regulated by a number of regulations, there was a need for the adoption of laws that would completely and in a unique manner regulate the area. The adoption of the Trade Act 1966 removed the shortcomings and restrictions until then existing rules which were also an obstacle to the active involvement of the Croatian economy in international trade flows, while trade itself was regulated as a single whole, regardless of whether domestic goods and services are domestic or foreign goods and services. So all the changes that have taken place in social, political and economic life in the Republic of Croatia in the last ten years suggest a new approach to this matter, thus creating a prerequisite for the creation of a new Trade Act. The adoption of a new Law on Trade, which will also be adapted to the practice of countries with the development of the economy as well as emerging market conditions, will create a legal basis for the functioning and further development of trade activities in our country. As I said in the opening presentation, trade plays a significant role in the development of the economy, and as shown by the latest figures in the 2007 period for the first 9 months and relating to trade. Its share in the gross domestic product is 11%. The total number of employees in Croatia participates with 17.3%. More than 259,000 people were employed in the store today. This is an activity that enables the fastest and most successful link between manufacturers and consumers. And so we certainly don't have to be surprised that in certain cities and municipalities trade takes first place. The main objective to achieve the new Law on Trade is in the domain of national legislation. The new Trade Act does not comply with European Union directives. But it is also necessary to take account of Europe's recommendations in relation to certain parts of the current law. A good legal basis should be created which will enable trade to grow properly and develop with the leading interest in creating equal conditions for the business of economies, keeping account of the prevention of abuse at all levels that occur in this activity, which is an unfair match and a grey economy. Finally, the legal basis should also result in positive effects for economic operators both for employees and for consumers, and they relate to better working conditions, services to consumers and, of course, lower product prices. One of the primary tasks of Croatian trade as a service activity is to provide consumers with the availability of products and services that meet their price and their quality with their needs, which is achieved through increasing the efficiency and competitiveness of trade, evenly the spatial schedule of the trade network, stronger trade and industry integration, the development of electronic business and the introduction of new sales methods, the development of good partnership relations on the contractual basis of cooperatives, even expansion in the region, change of attitudes towards staff, education, rights and obligations of employees. The new Trade Act provides for the introduction of certain newspapers such as the definition of economic concepts, the regulation of who can carry out trade activities on the market. Prescribing the type of sales facilities through the shop typeology, which will allow for the monitoring of the personal store to be small. Detailed regulation of procedures and conditions, issuing a solution to meet minimum technical conditions. Prescription of the conditions for the process of selling fish to wholesalers. The adoption of a Regulation laying down the conditions for carrying out direct sales operations by means of a representative. Prescribing the necessary conditions for certain occupations in the trade of professional equipment. The obligation to keep the list of goods in the store for a little bit has been lifted, which is also very important. The economic requirement to qualify and sell goods below its purchase price under unfair trading with value added tax, which has so far been evident. And that the inspection bodies will have greater powers, and of course we heard that from the presentation of the Croatian Deputy Prime Minister. A reference to a few words and to the introduction of working time under the Law on Trade. At the level of the entire Republic of Croatia, trade time will be regulated in a unique way. The subject-matter proposal for a working time in trade activities will be arranged so that Sundays, like all holidays, will be unworkable days. Namely, Sunday will be a day off with the possibility of working certain shops as exceptions. In the draft draft of the new Trade Act, it is possible to open shops during the week from Monday to Saturday from 6 hours to 21 hours. Due to the necessary supply of the population, it is possible that during the week from Monday to Saturday from 0 to 24 hours gas stations work at a small to 80 square meters, gas stations and shops at a small part of the closed area, gas stations within closed areas of the highway, shops at border crossings, highways, station, airport etc. Due to increased consumer inflows in certain parts of the year, and primarily here is thought of the tourist season, it is proposed that Sundays work all types of shops from 6 to 13 hours in the period from 1 June to 1 October as well as throughout December. On Sundays, thanks to the exceptional functioning of the social community, other shops dealing with cultural customs, traditions and rights to information, etc. may also work. We could work from 6 to 13 hours, and these are booths, benches, flower counters, etc. It is also important here to conclude in the end that the goal of achieving the new Law on Trade is to avoid current indetermination, the legislative uncoveredness of certain areas and the discrepancies with other laws. Trade activity wants to be regulated in a unique way in order to create a legal basis for carrying out trade through a system of regulated national legislative rules. This will positively reflect the creation of a good database for the measurement of trade, the suppression of the unfair competition, the reduction of the unregistered economy and the protection of employees and consumers and finally the development of this activity which plays a significant role in the Croatian economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5346	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote and one replica. First of all, the correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5347	Thank you very much. I would only stick to one finding, which is also mentioned in the introduction of the law, but my colleague reiterated it. So the fact that he stated that this law will contribute to better availability of Croatian products, i.e. trade, pardon products from Croatian shops. It's not a fact, or it doesn't answer the truth. Because if it doesn't, it makes it impossible for me to go to the store once a week, then it reduces my availability and ultimately puts me in an uninvited position. So during the season, or else I become a second-class citizen. So I depend on when my season is going to be and when my strangers come to me then I'll be able to buy on Sundays, and when there's no tourism, then I won't be able to buy on Sundays. Therefore, it is not a matter of availability at all, but I think there is actually no need for accessibility and regardless of what the Deputy Prime Minister said, I think that the availability will be much lower, and we will quickly see for ourselves than it is in the current solutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5348	Thank you. And a replica, distinguished representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5349	A respected colleague, employees of trade other than normal working hours, is interested and expected from the Law on Trade of which the Vice-President of the Government spoke and so they ask when this law, how will this law protect their existential interests because unfortunately we have to find that employees in the trade are workers, that this is a group of workers who have been exploited. Who unfortunately still acts and insists on the principles of slave relations within it. Unfortunately, the fact is, they don't have the right representatives to protect their interests. Because if you're watching their collective contract, it's at minimum legal level. If you see that t and the leaders representing shop employees are unable to organise any protest activity in any way, no form of union struggle to oppose such employers, then you have to wonder what their interests are that exactly employers do not want to oppose. They are more prone, and these days we can hear, organize a strike of general or a protest of general character in which they will participate, but they are in no way brave or capable, and there are known reasons, they are unable to organise protest activities to protect the existential interests of shoppers. And that's why I say workers except for working hours, so shop employees expect more protection of their material rights, because unfortunately it's a used-up category of people, workers in this activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5350	Thank you. An individual debate further. Honorable representative, Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5351	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Vice President of the Government, colleagues and fellow MPs! Well, he almost changed the meaning of my colleague Kunst's discussion. In fact, I think the real reason for this bill is what's hidden, which is that in Croatia is about 60 thousand sellers, and that 40 thousand works on Sundays. And according to the information the union says, 90% of it isn't additionally paid. And now the Croatian government and the Croatian Parliament instead of standing up for work and paying for work and ensuring that what they call a non-working day is true, but it is not a ban on working on an unworkday, it is a workday, so it is otherwise worth the work. Therefore, to ensure that the Croatian government and the Croatian Parliament are protected and paid at least 100% on basic salary, the government acknowledges by the bill that it is unable to do so. So we can't protect workers who work on Sundays, so now we're going to ban Sundays for at least these 40,000 workers. If it's our mission to have an affair, then we really did it. I don't think so. I think that the law, this proposal is politically and socially unencumbered, unconsistent, is legally selective and restrictive both towards entrepreneurs and workers. Why do I think that? Therefore, Article 49 of the Constitution of Enterprise and Market Freedom is the cornerstone of the economic structure of the Republic of Croatia, paragraph 2, which provides the state with the emphasis, on all entrepreneurs the same legal position on the market. In its explanation of the bill, the government says that the reason for the adoption of such a law is to protect workers' rights, and then says it will do so imagine how? That they'll strengthen the penalties that the inspection isn't carrying out right now because he admits it, and they're much lighter. It's absurd. I expected that the government in the bill would provide for at least a special judicial council for the protection of workers' rights, facilitate access to justice workers rather than prohibiting work. Today, it is claimed that the inspection is incompetent, insufficient, and that it is not effective in protecting workers' rights. We simply cannot accept it as a fact. One more thing. Some here are called upon to request the church. And I believe that the church has a legitimate right to demand what it thinks is right for the church as a community, but at the same time I say, the responsibility to regulate social relations is only at the government and the Croatian Parliament. And we can regulate these relations in accordance with the Constitution and constitutional principles. There's one more I have to say legal absurd. The Law on Working in Articles 38 and 39 and 40 speaks of working hours and full - time. So we've established it, and it's 40 hours full-time. All the other part-time work, short, overtime, we've got it all covered by the law. And then we bring into the law that regulates the work, the workers in the shops, and then we subscribe that term under the notion of the schedule of working time, which is actually in the circle of entrepreneurial freedom. The schedule of working hours, of course, requires that you also conflict on the market, competition. If you can't get through to the consumer on Tuesdays, you will, of course, work on Sundays. It's not an interest of trade in this kind of supply society because then they'd have supplies in which village they couldn't exist. Here's the maximization of profits, so it's the state's job to say where to work, not where you don't have to work or where you can't work. So, we have entered into something that is a matter I mean a coalition agreement or a division of certain groups in Croatian society. That's, of course, unacceptable. We are called on to have 260 workers in the store, but according to the information we have from the unions, this law, which is why we are now bringing it, regulates actually protection under the supposed signs of only 40,000 workers. What about those who, the other 220 work overtime? Do they have an increased fee for working on days and holidays? Is the state going to or won't make them pay for it? Why is he unprincipled? If it is about protecting the rights of workers, then the rights of workers exist both in June and in July, both in August and in September and in December. And we, whose interest are we guarding then? Who are we protecting then? What's the interest in entrepreneurship not to work at, say, 10 months when I say wine does, if that's what we're going to look at? We can't get a little out of someone, not a little bit out of hand. We have to be principled. So, if the protection of workers' rights is a priority, top demand from the government and parliament in January, February, March, why not be in June? Why wouldn't she be in August? Under what burden does the Government find it less necessary to protect workers' rights? To whom, then, does the government raise? In a situation like this, can we really require to see the principle of government when the law says that there is no recorded state of trade or types of trade and is engaged in the regulation of this area. He's getting into these problems. It will only, once this law is passed, record the right state of trade and types of trade, but it will please be nicely arranged by the rulebook as if it were a minor problem than what we are discussing. This is a bigger problem because then it appears precisely the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to be supplied and the types of shops are arranged to provide citizens, types of shops. So I think it's very important and it can, it doesn't have to come for another reading, this law can come within six months. The situation in the Croatian trade can be recorded, but there is some uncertainty. Let's say I'm not some trade law expert, but let's say what the article means, I could give countless examples, I think it's seven, Article 1 that a trade on a large purchase of goods is for further sale to professional users. The professional user is now me, I'm professionally using this law. So it's my job to read it, to deal with it. Does that mean that someone can't buy something if they won't professionally deal with it, or is it for further sale, etc. There is such a lot of ambiguity, although the term is entered in article 1 and when it is already a term that determines what is considered in this law which should then place all vague things in that bar and define for this law, they do not have to be in nature. And everywhere in the law where it says that working hours are being arranged, and this is about schedules of working hours, there should be a schedule of working hours, even if it's a store and not a working schedule of workers, because the working hours have been established for 40 hours, everything above that is confusing and not consistent. And if I'm not just saying it, we really need to coordinate the final and transitional provisions, especially the violations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5352	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect quote and four replicas. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5353	Thank you very much. I would like to correct Mr. Leca's incorrect claim that the government is banning Sundays, which is not true. The government is now giving every man the right and dignity to really have Sundays as a day off, to have a family lunch and all that every man deserves. Therefore, the government does not prohibit work but at the same time gives right to a man who certainly wants it. I'm a businessman myself, and I've got 250 employees, but I'll never fight for work on Sundays and especially for overtime that hasn't been paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5354	Thank you. Replica's distinguished representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5355	Thank you, Vice President. Here you see, colleague Leko, there's a word here that the government is giving dignity. And where did she store it and deposit the right to dignity? So she took away the ex, this one gives. The government needs to ensure that a working man on what is special and draws attention to what is and the essence of this law comes to his money but it is not only a question of incompetence because the government is very resistant to incompetence, but it will not. To raise taxes to the wealthy, owners of large trade chains, simply introduce such control to see if the worker is paid. Please, give a minimum wage that will be one decent salary. That's what I'm asking this authority to do. What a horror! And ask to protect the worker that you think it was supposed to be me too, what a pain in the ass. And when you talk about workers how many shop employees there are 259, 260 thousand among them are primarily women and those in the store. It is a slave of the 21st century, but this law does not give an answer to it because when the Labour Act does not apply and the non-payment of wages to workers, the non-payment of overtime, the holiday because it is a positive law that has dealt with it in force. But then when that law is not settled, then we'll have a new law on it. And Mr. Prime Minister also said openly what the main moves of this government are by visiting on 19.1. on HTV Plus. He said this: "Employing zeros, banning smoking and banning work on Sundays." and not how the workman should live, and how to survive, and how to be paid first of all.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5356	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5357	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, it is clear to you and me that the work is not just about existence but about ensuring man's dignity. That's why I said instead of the government fighting and securing a job and thus guaranteeing dignity for workers whose notes in Croatia have 260 thousand, they are waiting for a job and they can't reach it by restrictive measures and what few jobs put into question. And there's one more thing I'd like to say, those who fight the work as far as I understand it, laziness is a sin, it's not a sin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5358	Thank you. Replicated representative of Luke Denon.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5359	Comrade Leko, you have rightly noticed that in this law it is also proposed and that so far we have or will have a typeology store. Of course, we have a pilot project that still does not seem to me to see the light of the day that these stores will need to look and they should be compatible with EU countries under this law. Unfortunately, this reasoning of the bill also says that this database we probably have will be used to develop a strategy for the development of Croatian trade. If we translate that means that today we do not have a strategy for the development of Croatian trade but simply have the Law on Trade and we do not have a strategy. So here I wonder where that trade will go when we still don't know how to think strategically and think about Croatian trade and now we're already passing the Law on Trade.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5360	Thank you. And a reply to the replica by the esteemed representative Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5361	Thank you very much. I wouldn't answer if you weren't, so to speak, stab the right, the right place. Namely, tipology, or the typicalization of a store is one of the means to protect domestic interest. It's easier to protect it, even more often than customs, than contigents, when you prescribe which stores are what and how it can sell, then it's easier. That is why it is also strange that the law on trade, in front of parliamentary people, is manifested, the bill of law that we do not have a regulated or recorded state of trade in the Republic of Croatia. What's this about? Then who's in charge and who's not in control? The government obviously doesn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5362	Thank you. And a third replica. Dear Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5363	I, Mr. Vice President, will be replicating my distinguished colleague, Leakey, who, by the way, obviously, has this good, quality and reasoned debate, has also caused a real avalanche of replicas to that part, and I think it must be understood what replication is. Replication does not necessarily mean showing dissension, it may also be an incentive to think further. But with what part, however, with what part of my colleague Leko rightly notes that the purpose of passing this Law is hidden, and that we are actually shyly talking, in fact, about what is behind it with the the thesis that this government is unable to provide adequate quality protection for workers and that we cannot accept it. I think it's just the other way around. That's the first thing we have to accept. Do not deal with it, but accept the fact that this, but unfortunately all governments in Croatia have so far not, but were not the only actors capable of protecting workers. It's the first and initial premise and the thesis to come from. If you need to make a task force of some sort, if you want a consensus, but that question must finally be resolved in Croatia. And the time of the initial accumulation of capital is behind us, and transitions, this is now a civilization issue, and the first fact that we have to go from, put the problem on the table and say that we are going to do it, there must be both trade unions and employers involved, and not go, as someone said by law to law, thus the problem is clouded and not solved.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5364	Thank you. And a reply to the replica by the esteemed representative Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5365	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Davorko, our position has long been known, we are to ensure the protection of workers in various ways and to pay double work on Sundays and holidays. That's why I'm staying with what I said and I expect the government and the state to go that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5366	Thank you. And the fourth replica, the esteemed representative of Shima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5367	Thank you very much. I think my colleague Leko has hit the central issue, at least that's what the government says, among other things, that's protection, protection of workers. I don't know if I could answer that, but probably the workers during the tourist season can be better and easier to protect because the temperatures are higher. I'm the vice president of the government's cancer that the charred working time trade that determines the units of local self-government is harder to control, isn't it? Now I don't understand how it's going to be easier to control them now if we see that these stores can work, I don't know until 9, 10 or how many hours. Therefore, instead of institutions that should be controlled if employers respect the legality in the work of their workers to government, it actually adapts to these conditions. We're actually asking stores and employers to adapt to make it easier for that control to be carried out. And I agree with you in that part of the church, but not entirely. Because from what I've read somewhere, the Church is not satisfied with this law. But obviously, the solution they offer us, yes, because, as far as I've seen, in fact in a few statements, it's actually not satisfied, but it's obviously political law, or law that doesn't respect reality. Although that is said in the first sentence of the argument that some new conditions are respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5368	Thank you. And we're moving on with the debate. Honorable representative Branko Crlenko.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5369	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Trade plays a key role in the further development of the Croatian economy. For this reason, trade should allow for appropriate growth and development with a view to taking the interest in creating equal conditions for the business of economic operators, taking into account employees and consumers, and ultimately taking account of the prevention of abuse at all levels that occur in this activity. The current application of the Labour Act has shown certain shortcomings relating to the protection of workers' rights, both with regard to the protection of their dignity and with regard to the protection of their working legal status. The protection of workers from employers is insufficient, especially in large shopping centres. This Proposal for a Law on trade relating to working hours, i.e. banning work on Sundays, seeks in a certain way to encourage the promotion of labour rights. The Croatian state must first establish a quality policy and practice for the protection of workers' rights. This law seeks to achieve a better respect for these rights, but I am only afraid of a declaration. This step, banning work on Sundays, should actually be a step forward in protecting workers' rights. But what about the general, initial labour rights. How much of the country is actually trying to actively and proactively engage in the protection of fundamental labour rights. How long has it been done so far that women can freely plan a family without fear of being fired? How much has it been done to ban the release of pregnant women? Do workers get paid all due and guaranteed rights from the Labour Contract? As far as the Labour Act is concerned, especially in the part of the use of annual holidays, since it is not rare to find information that workers have not been on vacation for more than two years. And that basic and most important question. How much effort has been made to ensure that workers receive their salary in time. Only when these basic labour rights are secured can we be involved in the upgrade of these rights by banning work on Sundays. Basic labour rights are not guaranteed as the use of annual holidays, regular payouts. Therefore, these provisions in the draft law are only a drop in the sea of workers' rights which are conditionally respected. The biggest problem with the suspension of work on Sundays is that in this case, there will be a surplus of workers, which large trade chains strongly announce, and this will result in the dismissal of more people. During the whole year they will be able to work kiosks for the sale of printing, bakery, flower and candle shops, and souvenir shops from 6 to 13 hours, and gas stations and shops in which they are not more than 80 m2, gas stations on highways, and shops on stations, airports, ports and ports will be able to work from 0-24 hours on Sundays as well as any other day. Such provisions are discriminatory, resulting in the inequality of entrepreneurs on the market, so the Constitutional Court could abolish the law as it has already done with the November 2003 law because of the provision that Sunday's work is allowed only by trades of up to 200 square meters. The exceptions they will be able to work on Sundays include hospitals, hotels, museums, spas, and similar facilities. In the case of a provision in Article 61(1), The Government's proposal of the Law on Trade that work on Sundays throughout the year is widely allowed for specialized shops for the sale of bread and bakery products, it is important to stress that employees in these shops have a lot of problems with owners, cannot join the union or fight for their rights. The question arises whether the worker is humiliated by coming to work on Sundays. Can a Croatian worker, and it is mainly about traders with an average salary of around 2500 kuna, be humiliated when they work another 8 hours, thus allowing themselves to be one step closer to a dignified life. The biggest problem is that this work is mostly not paid. That's the problem of this country. It's normal for a worker to work for nothing. He'll only work to keep his job. The fact that an employer must not pay for a person’s work or suffer any consequences. The state must ensure that work, whatever work is paid. According to the Trade Union's account, given that the Labour Act established a working week of 40 hours that shopkeepers rarely need to get an extra 50% on Sundays, 35% on Sundays, or 85% on Sundays. The system of inspections and sanctions should ensure that fair and adequate fees are paid to workers for work on Sundays. Under the existing laws, it is necessary to punish those who do not pay additional wages for work on Sundays or do not provide a replacement day or in any other way violate workers' rights not only in trade. This ban on Sundays is also unacceptable for economic reasons. Trade accounts for 10.9% of national income and generates revenues that have a favourable impact on economic growth. A ban on working on Sundays could reduce trade's impact on social wealth by a week. It is also an unclear motive for restricting the ban exclusively on trade, as Sundays work is also present in other economic branches such as catering, agriculture, public services and others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5370	Thank you. Let's move on. Dear representative Nevenka Majdenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5371	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Government, the lady also from the government. I welcome everyone, as well as present colleagues and colleagues. The essence of each law and so on is to enable, i.e. to create important legal assumptions, conditions for carrying out, improving and developing such activity in this case of trade. Legal provisions must encourage, rather than hinder, the conduct of business to trade organisations. But they must allow proper monitoring and inspection, control of goods and products. The share of trade in the total gross domestic product with 11% and the total number of employees with 17.3%, with around 260 000 employees gives trade great importance, and thus this fundamental law that regulates this activity. That is why I find it very commendable that the draft of this law has been made very thorough. The preparations started, so a few years ago. This included all relevant factors from the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, Croatian Chamber of Commerce, HUP, Office for Social Partnership of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Trade Unions, two major Consumer Protection Associations, the Association of Dealers of Zagreb, Croatian exporters, and the Croatian Caritas. Such a wide circle and an undisputed expert in its design provide a guarantee that this law has elaborated and defined all the essential elements that make up very complex dynamic and constant changes in the subjective activity. After all, all of them are in their own best interests to make the trade right, legally arranged. The existing Trade Act was adopted in 1996 and has been amended and completed nine times, confirming the earlier finding of the dynamics of this activity and the need for continuous change and improvement of the accompanying regulations. There was, therefore, one part of the media, and it was the working time of the store. I have to say, I've been asked by a lot of store salesgirls when we're going to get this job done. They never asked me to pay for it, but it was always an important week for them, or for the holiday. And I think it is a really good view, that it is therefore necessary to regulate the matter of working time uniquely for the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia through the differentiation of working time according to the given characteristics and weekly, so on Sundays and holidays. In this draft proposal for a new Trade Act, it is therefore possible to open up to 6 to 21 hours during the week between Monday and Saturday. There are exceptions here which I believe are justified, but I also believe that consumer rights will not be compromised, that exceptions are of a quality to me. What is also very important except working time is that this law ensures a healthy competition, the development of new forms and types of trade, internationalisation and entry of foreign capital, the exploitation of our comparative advantages, which will entail the imminent development of accompanying activities, such as. Manufacture of food, fresh vegetables and fruit, service activities, transport and crafts. Indirectly, such a rapid and unquestioned development of new technologies and forms of trade and trade will also require new additional expertise and competences of shoppers, which will significantly change the structure of employees and trade interests. The activity of trade must be regulated legally so as to be in the role of consumers employed in trade, the economy as a whole, and the state should be able to perform its functions and train state institutions and authorities of state oversight and inspections to implement legal provisions. But these tasks must be carried out in a way that makes it a driver and I think that this country, this government, does. I believe that this bill removes the lack of and lack of existing law, defines economic concepts in trade business, regulates the percentages and conditions of trade and simplifies the conduct of business books, and, on the other hand, gives more power to inspection supervision. All in order to ensure a healthy competition, to prevent unfair competition and to curb the grey economy and employment on black. And in the end, for all of this, I believe that we can accept this law with the obligation to keep up with its implementation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5372	Thank you. We have one replica. Dear Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5373	You're telling your colleagues that salesgirls at the stores didn't ask you to pay for their work, only when that work will be arranged on Sundays. I believe that's because lately it's been happening and I'm a witness myself, but also other colleagues and anyone, he's had a similar case. So he's mostly wondering when more will be arranged on Sundays, we're exhausted, we can't anymore. And that's the truth! Because asking and asking for that work to be paid, they think it's illusory. They seem to have given up on it a long time ago. Although originally I remember, they asked me and a lot of others, why we didn't get paid. We would work, or those who do not have a family, to make more money if that work was paid the way the law provides. But they gave it up. A state unable to protect the weak, but powerful when, say, applying the Law of Infraction, Parking and so on. There is no, powerful, most powerful towards the poor when they apply the law. But when the law needs to be protected by workers, they are suddenly weak institutions. You yourself are saying that institutions need to step up to protect workers first and foremost. But first of all, we need to have the political will to do it, because that's not the problem. It is not a problem to do and to control whether this worker, this worker, worked on Saturdays and Sundays. That would be enough about the registration list, if the inspection was made possible that the employer was obliged to display every working day as much as anyone had worked and it was a very simple thing. Maybe it's missed before, here I think there's such a consensus now to do it because it's not some big or complicated thing if you really want to.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5374	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Nevenka Majdenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5375	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. The fact is, they're really gonna ask me when we're gonna fix it. I'm glad to be able to participate in this debate today and to say here that I represent that they are not working. I think it's good that we're already here to listen to what the Deputy Prime Minister says. He said there would be more and more inspectors to oversee the work. Therefore, it will also be monitored whether the entrepreneur, i.e. the owner of that trade, pays. And to my dear ladies who work at the store when they ask me now if they have to work Sundays, then I'll tell them that I'm against working Sundays, but that Mr. Leco said that on Sundays, not working Sundays is a sin. That's what Mr. Leco said, so you should have replicated to him and said it's a sin to work on Sundays. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5376	Thank you. No throwing from the bench please nice! And the esteemed representative of Dubravka Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5377	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Madam and Madam Representatives. It seems that this debate is mostly about Sunday's work, but the fact is that the law was to be passed, that it should be passed, that we must look at it through the importance of trade in the total Croatian economy. We heard the data from 11% of gross social product, we heard the data from 17.3 shares in total employment, we heard the number of 260 thousand employees, which is not a negligible figure. The fact is, in order to save time, I'm going to shorten maybe a little debate. That some things that are not dealt with here will be resolved by sublegal acts and the basic fact that this is the first reading, because my debate would mainly focus on working on Sundays and working hours, because that is what I particularly care about, and especially because Dubrovnik is more focused here today, and we have discussed this on a series of committees and especially on the Committee on Tourism. It's something we can't skip here, but I'm also very pleased that the Deputy Prime Minister here today said he's ready to talk about working time, so we're talking between 6 and 21. So it's not just about Sunday, it's about this whole year's work hours where I think that preparedness here today is what delights me, and I hope that through the debate until the second reading we'll coordinate. Because 21 hours in coastal places when it's summer reckoning time, you know it's still day. So on a simple day, it's much better to move the hours from 7 a.m. to 22 o'clock or something else. And I understand that it wants to achieve unity at the level of all Croatia and that it will be easier to control the side of the inspection, but also perhaps we should consider what Mr. Chehok was talking about, which is the role of local administrations and self-government in one part, that at least in these tourist places, because we have heard from the presentations and vice presidents and other representatives as it has been resolved in other countries, so we have seen that there are exceptions in Italy, and we are already making exceptions ourselves in a way that we say from 1 June to 1 October that the increase is therefore increased traffic. Since traffic has increased, I have to say a strategy for the development of Croatian tourism, we are constantly saying that we are going to a longer season, we have reached a 7-month season in Dubrovnik, meaning from April 1st to November 1st. And we're always in favour, and that's one of our little local strategies, 365 days of tourism. I say, Dubrovnik in particular, I point out here because we're a specific environment and there's been talk that it's better to talk less about trade and more about industry, more about production. And I agree that would be great if it were possible at Croatian level. But at the level of our small town, well here is the mention of this art of trade and Kotruljević. The fact is that we have no space, that we are geographically specially located and that trade is one of our capitals of the economy. And so here we are in a kind of cohesion or perhaps even in conflict of interest because I am the mayor and I advocate the implementation of this strategy, and at the same time we would care that at the level of the entire state, this is resolved in a unique and satisfying manner. So I believe and expect that by the second reading and second reading, we may find some solutions that will satisfy what we have talked about from local administrations and self-government and from the Committee on Tourism. I'll only tell you one piece of information. For example, tourist tax at the city of Dubrovnik is paid for a year at the same rate for that reason, and you know that traffic in those winter months means that four, five months we have to admit that it's not the season and we're trying to reduce it. So you should sort of compensate for that. But this is a much broader topic. And I'm saying, unfortunately, it's down to Sundays, it's down to the tourist season, and the topic is to edit the Trade Act. I agree, and I'm okay with it, and I'll be in favor of the law. But it takes a second reading to discuss this and try to differentiate and say from 6 to 21 hours every day, which I think should definitely be extended. Also, from 1 June to 1 October, if we can make an exception there, then we can extend a few more months. Also Sundays from 6 to 13 is a topic for discussion. Because the fact that we're all behind family values, but at the same time these little shops I'm talking about, so I don't even mention or think about big malls, they're all family business or family business, and they'd be looking for it, and they need it. So I think it's great that this is the first reading and that there will be time for a wider debate and that we may find some compromises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5378	Thank you. We have four replicas. First of all, she's the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5379	My colleague, you say as well as Mr. Chehok before that, before you do, that this debate is only a matter of working hours. The answer is simple. Because in a law that presents itself as a new law on trade, it's actually the only important newspaper. Everything else comes down to an existing law with perhaps small modifications. And why do we say that the way we propose to arrange working hours in stores will not solve the problem of employees? Well, just because many trading houses don't actually have a union in place, owners don't allow union workers to organise themselves, they don't have collective contracts, so neither does working hours nor pays in any other way, but rather what the employer decides. This is also the reason why we suspect that the way the working time is regulated here will achieve the effects that the proposing to us in the light of this law is actually saying that it will be achieved.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5380	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Dubravka Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5381	Well, I don't think it's true, though it's not an incorrect quote. So we heard here that some of the provisions for the reason of HItroReza have been simplified, we have heard that the typeology of the store is being brought, we have heard about the reduction of the grey economy, we have heard that they are trying to reconcile the interests of employees and consumers, we have heard that various concepts of trade are being defined, and we have heard what is crucial why this law has a provision of P.Z.E., which is to bring it into line with the acquis of the European Union and that the entry into the European Union will cease to apply to the provisions relating to that part.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5382	Thank you. Second Replicated representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5383	Yet here, my fellow Shuica, I think you have spoken wisely and opened up problems that this law does not address especially when you pointed out this problem in tourist areas. So, the point is, what my colleague, Dragica Zgrebec, has replicated to you, so the point is that this kind of work is to pay, not to be forced, but to volunteer. And I think it would be a pleasure to meet you all. But here, apostrophe of the fact that from 1.6th to 1.10th of the workers who are also a colleague Majdenić, and to all of you, you will not, obviously you will not be able to say them here, we have succeeded in it, you will not work on Sundays. You'll be working for the whole sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth month. You'll work. So, this law that you would say a long time ago but by naming one other law of ZERP, now who remembers it more, the prime minister, then the representative said neither the pyrka nor the kanac. That's how it is for this law to freak out a beak, not a turkey, not a canoe. It's a little bit of work. It's not working. In fact, five months will continue to work on the existing. He's going to do 21st century slavery. It will not be paid because nothing is said about the most important problem that work must be paid on Sundays or Mondays. That's the basic problem. And then we'll be there by Sunday. But let's start Monday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5384	Thank you. You have to define yourself then what is it? Strange the beak or... The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Dubravka Shuica. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5385	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I understand that this replica was used to express the attitudes of some others and it wasn't really some controversy with my views because it wasn't talking to me, I wasn't talking to the saleswoman or the saleswoman or there was a talk about paying or not paying. I was talking about the specificity of the area I come from, better said the city I come from. And there's something else entirely. So there's nobody at all, no one's been paid, but it's a family business organization where people would like to get a chance at a time when there's increased traffic and there's been an increase in seven months and we're trying to be a whole year to then eventually make some exceptions. So it wasn't this topic, but I understand that the occasion for this debate is.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5386	Thank you. No throwing it out of the bench another time. Replica's distinguished representative, Željka Antunović, vice president of the house.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5387	Thank you very much. So I would actually be replicating with the express high understanding of my colleague Shuice for something that is wrong in the law and what she has spoken of in a very mild and polite manner, which is equalising working time in the whole of Croatia. And there I would also mention the problem with the fact that the tourist season in different parts of Croatia is not in the same season. And that is exactly what is one of the serious objections to this law. It stems from the fact that something that needs to be dictated by the market, on which decisions should individually be made by local self-governments in line with the interests of the economy, economic development and citizens in their area are trying to fit into one law. And however this law was written, whatever was entered into it will remain open many problems. Adding some new exceptions or moving from hollow to empty to say left to right or right to left will not solve the problem that the city of Dubrovnik has. But that problem isn't just the city of Dubrovnik. It is also small places that triple the population during the tourist season, which may not have the need for some shops over the year, but during the tourist season there is a very need not to be regulated by some dry law and placed in unacceptable molds.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5388	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Dubravka Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5389	Well, I want to answer it again and again that we heard the government's readiness and the vice president's willingness to consider this question until the second reading, and I believe that that's how it will be, and that we will be able to discuss this further. But I'm still going to take this opportunity and say that 700 thousand tourists mean last year they came to the cruisers in Dubrovnik, which I'm not saying is our main strategy, although it happened to us by accident, etc. But 90% of cruise tourism is actually happening throughout Croatia in Dubrovnik. And one piece of information was, I wouldn't mention another city now, but one Dalmatian town that comes to a couple of cruises a week had consumption by Croatia's tourism institute, consumption per guest of 70 euros, and in Dubrovnik there was consumption of only 30.35 euros due to poor offer, etc. So, in any case, I shouldn't be honored to say it here, but in any case it should be motivated to kind of raise the consumption at a time when these cruisers come to Dubrovnik and unfortunately most of them come on Sundays and we're doing everything we can to influence these companies to disperse the actual arrival of the cruiser throughout the week. And this may be, I say, I may have had a bit of a depression, but this is a convenient opportunity to discuss this one again, and maybe on the Committee on Tourism and on some other laws and not just on this law. But this law has served as some basis for opening the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5390	Thank you. Dear MPs and MPs, I once again warn the committee that it is necessary for them to do their part of the work during the break, to implement the laws with which we have completed the agenda. We interrupt the session until 3:00. The first in line after the break is the distinguished representative Neda Klaric. Thank you very much. We continue the debate, the distinguished representative Neda Klaric apologized and gave up the debate. Next to an individual debate, the distinguished representative of Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5392	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here, let me also briefly comment on the proposal for a law on trade which seems to me to have a different title, which is primarily not called the bill on trade, but rather the bill on banning work on Sundays and regulation of working hours. Since in law itself the most important thing about trade is the most substance, and the most points of this new law apply to these two things and that some other essential or essential things about trade are taxed only without being further elaborated by the law. It seems to me that from the opening argument presented here by the Deputy Prime Minister, that is, where this Law intends and can in any case protect the interests of the employees, as it is at all mouths, and also here in the debate, and which I can individually agree that employers are in some way exploiting the real employees, that this law will, of course, be abolished by working on Sundays or by treating working time as it is here, this Law said, that it will then take advantage of employers in some way being aware of the minimum frameworks. It seems to me that the thesis is pretty bad, because if we're with these solutions that are proposed here, and if they stay that way, then probably only half a year will be protected, and the other half of the year will still be at the mercy of such employers. It seems to me that the Law on Trade, if it remains like this, cannot solve the exploitation of employers towards employees, that it can and must be resolved by some other regulations and that this must first be addressed by inspection services which will then protect the rights of workers who would be half-assed in this way, fully know how to handle it. Since the solution to the work of inspection is not prohibited, because of course things must and so we seem to have agreed that these things must be regulated by the market and that the market can only regulate the regularity of work on Sundays or working hours as indicated or otherwise. If I remember correctly, somewhere in the last debate when we were discussing pharmaceuticals, to cut short, which we talked about, then the HDZ Club, of course, explicitly claimed that it was not against the market principle, but here it seems to me that they are still going against the market principle because in this case they are allegedly protecting the interests of employees and consumers. I don't know how much consumer interests are protected now if they're not allowed to buy on Sundays, or to buy at a time when, as proposed here by this law. Since, if the market is free, then I doubt that employers would have open stores, that employers would have open centres if there were no customers or consumers in them, and it is likely that, unfortunately, the habit of buying on Sundays is no longer just a habit but a common practice, and if it is banned, of course consumers would find ways to meet their need for purchase, which is that they will probably sit in their car and buy abroad and I don't know then what they gain for the state. Of course, the market and units of local self-government should also be part of the regulatory system in such a way that, above all, the units of local self-government have been spoken of here and where the Committee on Tourism has also highlighted this, they should be given the opportunity to set their own working hours as they have so far been this Law which is existing. Because I think they're mature enough to be able to set working hours according to their needs as they've done so far and haven't abused them. More, say, the local self-government unit is left with something that's minor. So here we have confidence in the local self-government unit, I'm just going to say that Article 10(5) says, "The authority of the local self-government unit can prescribe the external appearance of a sales facility," but let's just say, here's can't prescribe new working hours. It seems to me that it is in some way demeaning the units of local self-government, especially the self-government unit, which is first and foremost developing and happening tourism. What is also said here will thus protect domestic production if it is regulated or banned on Sundays, or if the working time for all Croatia is evened out. I am not sure that this is a good way to protect domestic production, but then you will tell me that some other members of this Act have been resolved, so I would say, for example, that the protection measures which, Article 29, which treats measures to protect domestic production from excessive imports, are that if they increase imports of certain goods in a short period, or in absolute quantities or relatively relative to domestic production, that, and if such imports harm or threaten to harm domestic production, that the Government will take appropriate measures to protect domestic production. I want to translate that into a simple Croatian language. Today, the Barila import pasture stores are much cheaper than our home. And now, what it means, are we going to ban imports and such cheaper pasta, which is primarily in the protection of consumers because it is in their interest to buy cheaper and more quality, I'm not sure that these measures, which are so quickly read here, are going to bring some results. What I would also like to say is, if you can fix it in another reading, so you might want to try and take some suggestions from these opposition benches, which is first of all an article 10 that treats and says what a store is on a little outside of the store. So it says there's also production facilities in peasant or family farms. In order to perhaps be more competitive, more precise, and to get these peasant economies out of hand in some way, it might be good to add there, and to say that once a week or a month they can sell their goods without VAT, so that they can be more accessible and that some of us can also buy cheaper, and quality, domestically, too. It also seems to me that it is quite unarranged in this article 10, where it is only taxing on what is a retail trade and what is the form of a trade, so it says that it is sold remotely on the Internet and only that is mentioned. Nowhere's that high-quality or well-developed. I think that should be because it takes a lot more quality to work out the law rather than sublegal acts. Moreover, the law should first and foremost resolve this law, not by the terms and conditions of trade in Article 12, where it simply states that the Minister in agreement with the Minister responsible for Health, the Minister responsible for Agriculture, the Minister responsible for Construction, will lay down the conditions laid down in paragraph 1 and that means minimum technical conditions. If three ministries and three ministers have to adopt regulations, then I think that the topic deserves enough attention to be treated by law itself, and not until the three ministries and three ministers find themselves, they agree, then the minimum technical conditions won't see the light for a long, long time. And finally let me look back a little bit on the working time that's been suggested here. It really does not fit and cannot be said to be a colorful working time that we have so far that it is bad and that it should be a unique working time for all of Croatia. Somewhere, in some parts of Croatia, you may not really need to work from 6 a.m. to 22 o'clock in the evening. But in the environments dealing with tourism such as the Primorje-Gorski County, Dubrovnik County, Istria County and some other county in some way regulate that working time to make it between 6 and 21. It doesn't make sense. If you come to Brussels then in Brussels at 6 a.m., nothing works, but it works from 9 a.m. to 10 a.m. to late at night. I think that in such a way and such European thinking, we should look first and foremost at this law and fix it where possible, if possible, to fix it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5393	Thank you. Dear Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5394	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. So announced this Law on Trade, which often and whose expectations the public had long been looking forward to, and as counterpart Denona said, we somehow already Colloquially and called it a ban law on Sundays. However, first of all, citizens who are employees and above all here in trade chains and in general in trade expected such a bill. First of all, they expected their work to be rewarded and were expected to be strengthened, i.e. to find implementing mechanisms for how to implement the law and the existing Labour Act, but also to improve it. Which means that the worker must be paid in trade, worthy, that he and his family can live out of such work, that overtime be paid, that on their own work on Sundays and holidays, as the positive regulations prescribe. What did this bill actually get us? Sundays are celebrated here as a day of rest and it is good that one day of the week, because it is necessary to be the day of rest. And I'm surprised that someone can declare this law, a bill of law, a legal solution that allows it. What about six months, seven, eight, nine when we won't celebrate Sunday, when we won't rest? Prime Minister Sanader would say about ZERP or... The strange beak to whom everyone wanted to please, and it did not please anyone, or it was pleasing to those who did not have to be comfortable with the large trade chains that hold in chains, which the state simply does not observe and tolerate in the chains of the 21st century, first of all, the woman. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's a lot of work there for women. And we all know that. And they expect, first of all, these women expect this condition to be fixed, to get rid of it. Maybe the first step is that when the state is unable to secure that pay on Sundays and holidays, give at least then and do not work. But it is still not systematically resolved, because it will work again for almost half a year and will not be paid adequately in other days. That is why we expected that together with such a bill, but which should then have been consequential, there would be certain or at least implementing mechanisms, which is why the Labour Act does not apply, how this law strengthens. What about the Minimum Salary Act? If all these trade chains paid what they needed both for the state and for the workers with far greater purchasing power, they couldn't all survive. That's clear. So they're still able to make extra profits. On whose back and on whose back? Those women who are very early, who can't wait there to retire, who will become disabled workers. On whose means and whose shoulders will he fall again? States. So the state and the role of the state are to ensure a better life for its citizens, to protect those weak. This is not a way, and this bill simply shows itself not as an effective solution to this burning problem, but as one thing I don't know how to say soap, maybe some other mental lube that we're going to wash away so little of the unclean conscience that we have toward these people. We need to know that for a certain period of time, and that the vast majority of people working in a store or a worker, workers generally work for a certain time and 80% of all employees in the last few years since this institute has been made possible, and unfortunately, its abuse of 80% is such for a certain time, although it is unresistant that they should be employed indefinitely. In this way, the underpaid become further discriminated. I can't raise any credit or other of those elemental rights that way, that's how much they survive. Why aren't you treating your salary like a felony? That's what we had. That's off. It's a major social hazard. In this way, the state fiscus and the funds are being povertyed. So I think given the frequency that it's not some rare behavior, an exception. We had an epidemic of that behavior in the '90s to 2000s. Unfortunately, as early as 2005, we have been able to regain the number of those who work and do not receive wages and silence. Workers are too weak to fight for their rights, because rights belong to those who fight for them, who have a possible economic basis for them. 41 thousand employees don't get any pay today for their work. Doesn't that require a social and state reaction? Isn't that socially unacceptable behavior? Here we talked about some sins and so on, so let's remind ourselves of the words of Pope Good XXIII who said "that failure to pay a worker is a sin that crys out to heaven." It is the greatest sin of all sins. Because that's how we punish this worker and his family. 5% of all workers still receive a salary of less than 22.00 kuna, 18.5% of all employees have a salary of 2000.00 to 3.000,00 kuna and a further 24.2% between 3 and 4000 kuna. From 4,000,00 to 5,000,00 thousand kuna has 14.5, a total of 62% lives below average, and can hardly, especially in these inflationary times at all, settle the basic cost of living, that union basket. In the latest recent recent survey, more than 85% of Croatia's citizens have declared that their incomes cannot cover those costs, but it is the most difficult for shopkeepers right now. Why does the state tolerate it? Shall we soon declare ourselves the Republic of Konzum or some other trade chain? Well, we've seen and some have debated that it's become a place of association because the state doesn't take over its basic functions. They take over their social role by force of opportunity, so there you have encounters, socializing, children's playgrounds. So they take on the strength of opportunity or the unfavourable role of state and society. How do you get out of all this? This isn't the answer. This is some kind of mechanical circuit, so it's like something's happened. You did not provide Sunday because Sunday is no different than at 6 months from Sunday at 1 month. If we are called upon to be a Catholic people who, first of all and according to tradition, celebrates that Sunday as a day of rest, who needs a man and his spirit and his body, is that Sunday at the 6th month different when the spirits are also different from that of the 2nd month, from the 3rd month. Well, it's not a church or a self-serving religion when we're gonna pull something out that we need or from season to season. Seasonal! Seasonal Christianity. But the basic problem is here, so to pay one day, it doesn't have to be Sunday, it can be Monday or Tuesday that the worker has, but it's within the current law that he has the right to do so. Which is why we do not ensure that the rights that are inaugural and that we have even agreed are reduced compared to the one that passed the Labour Act, but they are not respected. Which is why the state, which makes the government look at and passively assists in the unprecedented exploitation of workers, and specifically here when speaking about workers. And they say we're gonna set that week free because Sundays take these women to do something at home. But unfortunately, they don't rest at home either. Because the state thinks that child rearing is still her concern. That the house is her concern. In Finland, the prime ministers go on maternity leave. It must become a commitment to us, too, because the old song...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5395	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5396	Here's another vice president you'll agree, you'll remember that song in socialism. "A Sunday's father, yellow in the face, goes on Sundays on the deck, and a mother who usually doesn't have a vacation, cooks, washes and cooks." Then it better work.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5397	We have two replicas. First, he's the esteemed representative of Luke Denon.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5398	Of course, you colleagues have every right to read this law when you say that it is full of exceptions because a law that has so many exceptions loses all meaning. I am for banning work on Sundays, but then let's not work on restaurants or cafes, let's not even work on road stations so we can't even travel abroad, buy cheaper goods where he does it on Sundays. But half as much as this, I don't think it's right. And there's something else I'd like to say. This law bears the mark "E", added "E", means that there is a European law somewhere. I would also like to establish that, at the beginning of this Europe, you have little trade policy of the European Union, and in what is most important where the trade restriction is said is mentioned that implementation, the Government can temporarily restrict trade in the case of: the implementation of the obligations laid down by the Security Council Resolutions of the United Nations. We forgot some sort of European Commission resolution, for example. If a pig, cow happens, I don't know what plague or madness or sheep's madness, then we can put it somewhere to connect to that Europe we only have at first. It is obvious that all this lack of abandonment of both Europe and other real things that would solve trade is not deliberate, it is not intentional, it is not intentional, because yet this law is merely hard-core to keep together Sundays and regulate the work of trade in the way that it should look uniformly in Croatia, not applying the rules or needs of certain parts of Croatia, especially those who live and work from tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5399	Thank you. Replicate response, distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5400	You see, a colleague of mine, it's hard to figure out why some, why this bill, and it's often happening, isn't always transparent, suddenly gets a P.Z.E. mark. It's something we like and then P.Z.E., because it's not explained. I see here somehow that the purpose of it could also be in Article 57(5), which speaks of the protection of whistles. So you can see that someone is talking about corruption, about lawlessness, or better about lawlessness, to protect such a worker who would whistle and warn about such lawlessness, to guarantee anonymity. What does that mean? That the state has capitulated before it and simply admits it, but it's good to admit it, but then we need to find an adequate answer, not to guarantee such anonymity alone. So it's something that we're going to do as a covert witness who pointed out something, said something quietly, and no one alive knows what he said, or the public knows what he said. And then how are we going to fight corruption, against one of the most dangerous aspects of lawlessness if these things don't come out right now? Therefore, the point should be, in an absolute support above all, of an absolute political climate that it enjoys protection and then of the normative protection of such people. And here he is guaranteed the anonymity of how he complained about someone and nobody knows it anyway. And now there he is, and now we're encouraging him to protect it and not to tell anyone alive who he was complaining about.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5401	And another replica of the esteemed representative Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5402	And it turns out that, in 2000, when you came to power for workers, everything was honey and milk, and you forget that by adopting the Labour Law, you had disproved workers, so you turned them into slaves in trade chains, and allowed them to be exploited. And now it's the ultimate cynicism that it's you who have put them away like that, that you're now struggling to have these women in chains working on holidays and Sundays and justifying it right to work. And in fact, we all know they don't even pay for regular work, let alone pay overtime. That's why I don't think you're credible when you talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5403	Thank you. The answer to the distinguished representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5404	My friend Rebic! You should know that this is a new old government and that you've been in power since 2004. So this law which you say is lawlessness toward a worker, that it is his reparation, that it is his rejuvenation; why have you not changed it? However, it is not a problem...... You don't change with this, sir. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Look at the name of the law at all. So the thing is, and I was talking about that and that law, I'm saying you don't even need to improve it but it's sad that this law doesn't apply. And that the unions were even, when she threatened the dangers of last term, that even more reverse workers' rights would stand in defense and say that the law was good. And remember these other things, maybe you've been getting the hang of it, that you've banned, that's still a request for a constitutional assessment, but the Constitutional Court obviously has a lot of work to do because it hasn't solved the case yet, the ban on gathering on Mark's square, where you've banned these dissuased workers from even coming to complain. And you also forget that until 2000, working and not getting paid was the most normal thing. And that by 2000, by 2004, things had greatly improved in this regard, that we had brought a crime of default to the worker and a whole series of things. But unfortunately, he suffered an infamous failure because these laws were put out of force. But you've had plenty of time, and there's something to be said by the Constitutional Court, but for purely procedural reasons, because you didn't vote for such a law at the time, and it's clear why, because we've been looking for greater protection of workers but also sanctioning economic crime, and none of these things that happened back in the '90s, and now they're going through a lot of courts both foreign and domestic, they're experiencing this kind of epilogue with huge fees. But if you'd had it or had more time, we wouldn't have experienced it like this... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5405	Thank you. I'd ask you to stick to the time that's enough to answer. It's according to our regulations. We stick to him, as we ask others to uphold the law. I have an announcement. The third session of the Committee for Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament, which was called for Thursday 27 March 2008 at 8.30 am in the hall "Josipa Jelačića", chairman of the Committee, Zvonimir Mršić. Dear Representative Tomislav Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5406	I would like to thank the Honorable Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the Government, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us a draft of the Trade Act. Trade plays a significant role in the development of the Croatian economy. This can also be seen in the data provided by the State Statistics Institute for the period January-September 2007. The share of trade in GDP according to the statistics is 11%. The number of employees in trade compared to the total number of employees in the Republic of Croatia is 17.3% or more precisely today in the store works somewhere around 260 thousand employees. The aim to achieve the adoption of a new Law on Trade is to create a good legal basis in the domain of national legislation, which will enable trade to grow and develop properly, with an interest in creating a level playing field for business operators, keeping account of the prevention of abuse at all levels that occur in this important activity. I am sure that this legal basis will ultimately, with positive effects for the economy, result in positive effects for both employees and consumers. This law has worked intensively for several years and has included all relevant bodies closely related to this activity, such as: state administration bodies, Croatian Chamber of Commerce, Croatian Chamber of Commerce, Croatian Employers Association, Croatian Caritas, Office for Social Partnership of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Trade Unions, Association of Merchants and Croatian Exporters. The primary task of Croatian trade as a service activity is to provide consumers with the availability of products and services that meet their needs with their prices and their quality. All of this is achieved through increasing the efficiency and competitiveness of trade through a more equidistant spatial schedule of the trade network, stronger integration of trade and industry, even expansion of trade in the region, change of human relations and through the rights and obligations of employees. I am convinced that the adoption and application of the new Law on Trade will curb the unfair competition and minimise the unregistered economies, which is one of the fundamental tasks of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This new trade law is divided into ten wholes. In this debate, I will refer especially to the part that speaks of working time trade. So far, in the Republic of Croatia, the Regulation on working time of shops and other forms of retail trade has been in force, which is a legal framework on which cities and municipalities and cities and municipalities make decisions on working time. And that is why in the Republic of Croatia there is a colorful approach to the regulation of working time, with the difficulty of carrying out surveillance. The following question of working time should be arranged so that it is unique for the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia, so as to determine working time according to the specified features, weekly working hours, working hours on Sundays and holidays. With this bill, working hours in the business will be arranged in a way that Sundays, like all holidays arranged by the Law on Holidays, the mention of days and working days, will be an unworkable day. On Sundays, it will be a fundamentally unworkable day, with the possibility of working certain shops as exceptions, taking into account the supply of goods to consumers that are necessary in everyday life, goods that ensure the smooth functioning of the social community and smooth access to information as well as goods that are related to respecting cultural and family traditions and the needs of tourists. Of course, I will not repeat myself and say what trades are excluded from Sunday's ban but as regards the ban on working on Sundays there are certain exceptions due to the increase in consumer inflows in certain parts of the year, and the possibility that all types of shops work on Sundays from 6 hours to 13 hours and during the period from 1 June to 1 October as well as during December. And this law also gave them the opportunity to do certain shops within hospitals, hospitals, spas, hotels, etc. But of course again according to the working hours of these facilities. Since ancient times, the need for a day of rest and a day dedicated to God and family has also arisen. Christians took Sunday as the day of the Lord because Sunday is the day of Christ's resurrection. So if we go back and begin to create, we will see in the book of Genesis that God himself after six days of creating the world on the seventh day had rested. And I will therefore quote, "And on the seventh day God shall complete his work which he has done, and shall rest in the seventh day of all that he has done." And God blessed the seventh day, and hallowed, for in that day they rested from all their work which he had done.". If God breathed on the seventh day, The rest should be rested and rested by a man who needs to exchange work and rest in his life. In the end, I will conclude my presentation with a quote from the document of the second Vatican Assembly, in a document called the Church in the Contemporary World, which says, quote: "The day of the Lord contributes to all having sufficient rest and free time for family, cultural, social and religious life.". And based on everything I've said, I'm going to accept the amendments to the Trade Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5407	Thank you very much. We have one correction to the incorrect quote and three replicas. Correction of the incorrect quote Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5408	In his otherwise inspired discussion, a colleague, Vrdoljak, confused the days of the week. Citing the existence he constantly quotes and speaks as if he refers to Sunday. He's dealing with a colleague on Saturday.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5409	Thank you very much. Replica representative Davor Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5410	Honored vice presidents, respected and respected colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. So you said that this law would reduce the number of unregistered companies or grey economies. I must disappoint you, but I will have to disappoint all Croatian citizens. Unfortunately, when the law is passed on Friday and on Monday, or next week and when it comes into force, we will see already in the 2009 budget revenue item that this will not happen. The grey economy in Croatia can be estimated at 11 billion euros, meaning it is about 80 billion kuna. In order for this revenue to be projected on revenue only from the added value in the state budget, there should be between 7 billion and 10 billion kuna each year. You'll see it won't happen. On the other hand, the application of the gray economy itself through an article of the law relating to the protection of whistles is written only on a declarative basis, so I quote: "The addressing of workers on grounds of reasonable suspicion of corruption or in good faith is the submission of the application of this suspicion to responsible persons or to competent authorities cannot be a reason to be fired but can be fired.". So there can't be a reason. And I'm asking you how many people will actually seek their justice in court outside the meaning of institutions and beyond their jobs. So, first of all, I would say that in general, that item about the whistlers themselves should not be here but should be in the Labour Act. By introducing herself here into the Law of Trade, she is missed and on the other hand does not define the problem well. And here, I assure you, and especially because of these differences in income of the items themselves and through work on Sundays and because of these things that I used to say that this income will certainly not be greater here I, unfortunately, have to disappoint all Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5411	Thank you very much. Second replica representative of Luke Denon.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5412	Well, of course I agree with my colleague that we will support this law, but unfortunately it seems to me that it is a bit offensive law that says that a local self-government unit can prescribe the external appearance of a sales facility but, as minors, we do not give it and we take away the right that it has so far to determine and determine the working time of trade in its territory. I don't think that's good, if we go, and we're full of our mouths of decentralisation, we should believe in those people who haven't yet compromised their rights in some way to leave them with the right that they, especially in the tourist regions, determine their trade hours themselves. It is rude for this to be uniform throughout Croatia when there may be no need for trade to work from 6 to 21. And yet I trust our Croatian ingenuity. And I believe that various Bills, consummations and others will take advantage of, of course, Article 61(4), so on Sundays, they'll install their stores and wolves full of goats all week long, we won't be able to work on Sundays, but we'll be able to buy in our cars, just as if we're buying anywhere else.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5413	And the third replica, Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5414	Dear Vice President, so here's the clue to what Mr. Stazic said to a respected colleague, I must say that on that day when God began from, when the world was created, it wasn't Sunday, it was Saturday. So it has nothing to do with this trade law. It has absolutely nothing to do with the Law of Trade. I've listened to you, and you listen to me. Namely, I would like to say that in accordance with the Law on holidays in the Republic of Croatia, the fact is that Croatia is a country which most citizens make up Catholic religions, but also the Law on Holidays and Rights of Minorities is allowed for other minorities to have the right to an unworked day at Christmas, on Easter, Bajram and so on. So I think here this law first brings discrimination to both other and members of other religions. Since I've got a debate after that, I'll take this one to the conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5415	Thank you very much. Replica reply, MP Tomislav Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5416	Thank you, dear vice president, here's the need to respond to my colleague Zoran, but also to my colleague Stazic. Namely, when it comes to the book of Genesis, therefore, it is the time of the Jews, where it was the Sabbath of the holiday day, and I am in my presentation, if you have listened well to me, saying that we Christians took Sunday for the day of the Lord because Sunday is the day of Christ's resurrection, and Sunday is a day for us.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5417	Let's move on. Let's move on with the debate. It's Zdenka Chuhnil's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5418	Dear vice presidents, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. The Law on Trade, which was passed in 96 indeed in 12 years, had to experience many changes and additions, since working conditions, trade liberalisation, foreign capital entry and foreign trade chains were changed, to certainly new forms of electronic trade. It is an activity that is in constant expansion, an activity that many call both the engine or the driver of society, and if we add that its share in the gross domestic product is almost 11%, that at the end of 2007, the number of employees was cca. 260 thousand or 17% of the total number of employees in the Republic of Croatia, then surely this activity deserves a new and more quality law. However, whether this Law is such and whether it can provide for all subjects of equal market conditions, combat unfair competition, minimise the gray economy, define safeguards in import, provide employees with 40 hours of working hours at most with 10 hours of overtime, or perhaps better say 8 hours of overtime, as we will soon have to change those elements. And finally, can we have a satisfied consumer based on this law, and I would say especially if this consumer is a tourist because we are still a tourist country. Have we put the activity of trade as such an important economic branch, in fact, in this law, in the role and interest of the state in the interests of economics, workers and consumers? I'd say we didn't. Because let's look at the state we're in today. It is necessary to look at the true salaries of many merchants today, and we will realize that this is indeed a slavery in the modern form of wild capitalism, that is, where profit really knows neither humanity nor the value of man, where traders are, as the most numerous labour force, paid really often like slaves, exploited, blackmailed by their workplaces, about how they are often undeclared, as well as enough has already been said by my predecessors. The union president recently claimed that nearly 40,000 sellers work all Sundays of the year, that most holidays or even 90%, or most holidays and that even 90% of them are not even paid for it. I really wonder how this is possible in a legal state where there is a labour law and the Law on Trade. Because we're passing a new law, but the existing law is still in force. Is this the result of an insufficient number of inspectors we have often warned about? Is this the result of low sentences or is it really too many violations that go into obsolescence that pay off employers? I think someone might have to answer those questions first. Because by closing the store on Sundays or working for only 5 months, this problem with such paid merchants will certainly not be solved with such a underpaid workforce. I find it even weirder to define working hours on Sundays from 6 o'clock to 13 o'clock, and we're so worried that this worker is being protected and on the other hand we let him sleep at least on Sundays, start working later, or if we've already copied European countries, then we should have seen that no one starts working there at 6 o'clock, and we're trying to force six hours to 13 o'clock. On the other hand, all our research from last year has shown that indeed more than 60% of the citizens do shopping on Sundays, and I have to say that I belong to them and that really watching those shopping families that hang out in that shopping mall, who are eating lunches, and listening here to a colleague of Ingrid who here is not certain that this mom or that woman has more than that, if she were in shopping because otherwise she would cook at home, Dad would go with his friends to the bar, and so would the kids be left to TV, the Internet, or not to say the street. So at least most of the family's works are here together. We also have a third category dissatisfied with this proposed working time, i.e. closing the store for five months, and these are small family stores that our colleague Cain spoke of. Those little neighborhood stores that work really all seven days and that are always because of the big chains at the border of profitable business and closing on Sundays will really have to close their doors. However, this will certainly contribute even more to the exceptions that can work on Sundays and normally encourage these exceptions to a unfair competition. I'll just mention the press and gas stations here even though there's a dozen in exceptions. But surely both press and gas stations will turn into parallel, but bad trade chains. Because newsstands are already selling almost everything today, only not yet, and if they're going to pack it well, they'll definitely be able to sell bread. Same at the gas stations. Therefore, if much of Europe and administrative, without administrative restrictions allows work on Sundays. We know Ireland, Sweden, England, Catholic Poland also allows work on Sundays until 1800 hours. Likewise, the Slovaks, Hungarians and Czechs decide when it is worth their work, because for both the employer and the worker, the ultimate goal should be the development of the company, but also the satisfied customer. I must say that surely this closing shop on Sundays, at least in these months will update shopping in our neighbouring countries. We will re-employ the trader of Hungary, a trader in Slovenia, without talking about the funds we will leave in the neighborhood instead of home. At the same time, we must be aware that in Croatia, a little more than 20,000 jobs are created annually, which is certainly not enough for nearly 270 000 still unemployed. That means that every sixth resident of ours is at the best of our lives without a job. Equally, 7% of employees still don't receive salaries in time, which makes up almost 70 to 80 000 workers, and I don't think all of this gives us the right to close the store because it's going to produce layoffs. I already think that first of all, we all need to define how, how to bring quality regulations but even more how to implement the rules for each work to be paid. Maybe it looks appealing. I have to tell you that I come from a smaller environment and that the middle of small towns, small municipalities, the only jobs that are being opened at this time are the jobs of a store that is running for 200 even engineers who are willing to work and for this poor salary of 1500 and 2000 kuna. However, it is certain that this law also has valuable articles, i.e. what is worth in this law, that it is just prescribing measures to protect domestic products from excessive imports. If such imports harm domestic production, whether it is a quantitative restriction, quotas, whether it is customs duties. I don't want to see the light turn on now, but I'd just like to remind you of the problems of our orchards. It imports apples in front of the harvest itself when European warehouses are empty, when dumped prices are really exported from Europe, all when our apples have to be taught for invaluableness, because normally we do not even have adequate warehouses to say everything that would go with it. It is therefore really important for the measure to be implemented, to start to apply to all goods independently of the country of origin. But I have to express one concern when it comes to the printing process and proving the causal link between increased imports of certain goods and domestic damage. Although the examination procedure can indeed require both a natural person and a legal person or an association, I fear that the duration of the same procedure will be too long and knowing our administration should also be limited by some deadline. And finally, I have to say, it would really be desirable to regulate better quality protection, to regulate the paying of our shopkeeper instead of closing. I think it was an appeal to all the speakers so far, and I think that would be a way to achieve the satisfaction of both traders and consumers, which should be our goal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5419	Thank you very much. One replica. Davor Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5420	Respect. So here I was just curious about most of your debate was actually in the direction of these disagreements with some of the provisions of this first reading of the law, so I was wondering whether you were in principle or whether it was the attitude of maybe the national minority club you were giving support to the law in this form or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5421	I did not speak on behalf of the minority club, and speaking on my own behalf, I do not support Sundays' bans, or Sundays' days, but also the fact that all the faithful do not celebrate on the same day. Thus, discriminating some believers does not contribute to improvement but rather contributes to some being discriminated against. I personally do not support it, and I am always in favour of regulating work and paying for work, and that everything else will only regulate the market that we have available.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5422	It was this response to the replica of my colleague Cuhnil. Next to the debate is MP Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5423	Madam Vice President, the Honorable Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Since my colleague Lesar has already expressed very exhaustively the views of the Croatian People's Party I will be here as short as possible because I have listened carefully to your statements and the only thing I have to be a little disappointed with is the fact that even in this law, the same story is always repeated, the black white story, and it is not good. In fact, instead of colleagues and colleagues with collective agreements and trade unions, we are dealing with the issue of working on Sundays within certain economic branches, we are opting for the parliamentary majority and overvote in this assembly. I don't think that's good. Instead of harmonising the laws with the real needs of Croatian workers and Croatian citizens, we see that political interests are sometimes significantly different compared to their expectations for both our workers and our citizens. I, my colleagues and colleagues, come from a tourist region and would be expected to support that part of this law relating to Sunday's work, i.e. that trade will be open on Sundays. However, tell me what I will answer to many tourists when they ask me how on Sunday morning I can buy a water boiler, and on Sunday afternoon I can't buy either juice, cheese, or basic food products. Also on Sunday morning, tourists will be able to buy a car tire, and on the same afternoon, they will encounter closed doors to our museums, galleries, cultural institutions. Were we supposed to do more as a state to deal with the regional community, with local communities, to agree on how to make quality exits in the real needs of our tourists? Finally, when it comes to tourists, this law, if you look at it a little better, admits only one group of tourists. It's the bathers' tourists. Those who come to Croatia in the summer, those tourists who come to our country to visit our cultural and natural beauty beyond the season, the summer season, they are certainly not subject to this law and we are going to meet them. So colleagues and colleagues instead of systematically resolving the issue of work on Sundays, today we deal exclusively with shops, and on our benches is a law that I would call a hybrid hybrid. My colleagues and colleagues are not the problem in working on Saturdays or Sundays, it is the least of the problems. The problem is work and rewarding work. These two concepts have almost completely disappeared from the Croatian political dictionary. My colleagues and colleagues are in this for a tragedy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5424	Thank you very much. Next is the debate, MP Marin Brkaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5425	Madam Vice President, esteemed representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I will also try to say a brief word about the very proposal of the Trade Act. First of all, for the reason that the Deputy Prime Minister himself said that the text of the law that is in the first reading, I believe can be improved by remarks, suggestions and by us here representatives and committees themselves. What I would say about the bill itself, normally I'll say something about self-determination of working time. I would like to point out that this bill is a step back, a step back, given that this bill requires us to do away with some small powers of the units of local self-government, municipalities, cities, because we know that the applicable law, that is, the rule of law of office, has units of local self-government, their headships. So we're going to centralised independently that we're all a little bit of the opposition and the ruling coalition, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in its programme has said or indicated a decentralisation that will at least take place in principle during this four-year period, and we see exactly the opposite trend, so the powers of the local self-government units and this power of time are being passed on to the central state. Here's one reason why I can't support this bill, but I believe it will improve through the second reading process. The second part, I would say, as far as determining the working time itself is concerned in Article 58 and Article 60 of the Law Proposer and Lawmaker of the Ministry of Economy, I believe that they have tried to set a single working time for the Republic of Croatia for all trades between 6 and 21 hours. I would say that Croatia is rich with its own differences, I will say both in historical and geographical and cultural and economic terms. It's these differences of us to say so rich, and we're in this way setting a unique working time for all the stores, shops, fairs, etc. I don't think we're doing too well. I mean, we're not doing well because this part of the job is certainly the best way to do the units of local self-government, municipalities and cities. Here's what I'm going to say about the tourist resorts themselves, and I'm asking that, especially for tourist resorts, whether they're on the coast or in the continent, they make some exceptions. Working hours until 9:00. I'd say trade activity is a complement of tourism activity. Our guests were domestic or foreign, only after 21 hours because we know that it is dinnertime, they go for a walk, and thus the atmosphere of all these tourist resorts, the promenade is also a sighting and shopping. It is not about buying bread or parizers as mentioned here but about buying our indigenous products, souvenirs that are both indigenous and foreign or importable, but one pleasure of buying, one pleasure to say so to the tourist offer, I think it will do me a great deal of damage especially to the tourist economy by estimating that trade is a significant part of almost one third of the participation in the total tourist product. And here I would like to conclude that this segment means working time in the activities of trade, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Resolute Ministry are taking another good look at it and to allow a more liberal approach in determining working time. I certainly advocate that this work is done by units of local self-government, municipalities and cities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5426	Thank you very much. Representative Marija Pejcinović Buric is in charge of the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5427	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, Madam Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So here is the debate we heard today, which is why this law is one of those 121 laws that we adopted in the national programme for the accession of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5428	Thank you very much. Ante Kulusic's representative is next.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5429	Thank you. Vice-President, distinguished members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I will repeat a few sentences that we have heard here today a hundred times what importance trade has for the development of the Croatian economy and that there are 260 thousand people working in the store. I think the basic objective of this law is to create better working conditions, better service to consumers and create conditions for lower product price. All of this will be done through increasing the efficiency and competitiveness of trade, a more balanced spatial schedule of the trade network, stronger integration of trade in industry, changes in relations with employees, or rights and obligations of employees. Nowhere here is said to pay workers and not be rewarded. I don't think there's a citizen in Croatia who doesn't want the worker to be paid quality and rewarded for his work. I am absolutely in favour of introducing a ban on Sundays except, of course, summers because of the greater inflow of consumers from June 1st to October 1st and during December, all shops at this time can work as they have been heard here 100 times from 6 to 13 hours and all other days from 6 to 21 hours. Whether this is a well-hit captain or not, I don't think we can discuss this yet. Whether the matter of working time should be unique for the entire territory of Croatia and perhaps more debate can be made. But in any case, it should be introduced to be the best quality for all of Croatia. The new Trade Act prescribes who can carry out trade activities on the market. In addition to legal and natural persons registered for the purpose of carrying out this activity, trade activities may also be carried out by farmers or family holdings. Another newspaper is the adoption of a regulation that will lay down the conditions for the execution of direct sales operations through MPs in order to prevent the emergence of a grey economy. This activity is currently not legally regulated and constitutes unfair competition. The obligation to keep the list of goods in a small way will be abolished; it will be handled in a simpler way than is prescribed by the current law. The new law will give the competent inspection authorities greater authority. The provisions of this law governing trade policy and business abroad, which will remain in force in the European Union, relate to trade relations with third countries or non-members of the European Union. On Sundays and holidays, it will be precise who and how it can work and I will repeat that it depends on the area of whether or not the captain's proposed good, it can still be debated. The new law prescribed the protection of workers from firing because of violations of labour law, which today was not much of a commentary on the detail. The new law will create a good database for the measurement of trade, for the control of unfair competition, for reducing unregistered economies, and for protecting employees and consumers and for the adoption of this law will contribute to the development of this activity which plays a major role in the development of the Croatian economy. I support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5430	Thank you very much. It's MP Zoran Vinkovic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5431	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Since we are in one atmosphere of Catholicism especially of this Roman Catholicism, I would say with full right, save us, God of law, and especially of bad law. I can commend this attempt to pass the Law on Trade, so a law that systematized practically what is written in the Regulation and in the existing laws. And therefore, this label of European law itself really has nothing to do with the European acquis. I will say that, and I will not repeat what my predecessors have said but first of all, I will not be so much on this Sunday's work that is only one provision of this law, although the whole law contains a series to say the bad solutions that are mentioned here only mention this question that allows the Government of the Republic of Croatia itself to exercise control over the whole of this law, sublaws, regulations, etc. and in this way this Parliament which adopts the laws but especially the units of local self-government which so far had that possibility, so far, but in the spirit of that regulation, as I did on a working day from 6 to 22 hours and on Sundays 8 to 13 with all traders being able to report their working hours to local self-government units. In this way, it reduces the influence of both parliament and local self-government, giving the government, the competent minister, the ministries to regulate almost from the systematization of retail to the protection of domestic production where a large space for possible and possible corruption is opened. There's also a question, I think, that those who were in the European Union, working, I'm one of them that I worked there on black while I was studying. So listen, it was a far higher salary than in the then Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia as it was already called but it is now bigger than in Croatia, so perhaps the biggest problem Croatia has to bring together and our salaries in trade with those in trade in the European Union. We're all talking about the exploitation of workers, not just workers, but in these shops also the male sex, so the workers where the salary is somewhere around 2,000 kuna. So if we're looking for so many Europes, I think the least problem is whether to work on Sundays or to ban that work on Sundays, but most importantly there's pay, overtime, etc., not to mention that someone's registered for four hours of working hours and working all week. There's also a matter of inspection, so it's a matter of the State Inspectorate. So I'm asking a question about what he's doing, what the State Inspectorate is doing if we, with the Trade Act, have to further do and secure his jurisdiction. There's also a question of these penalties. So, these penalties may be appropriate for the United States, and now Bush will come to visit at the end of his career, and they may be suitable for the European Union but not for Croatia. For a small businessman, a fine of 200 thousand or 15 thousand kuna is indeed great. As far as the protection of domestic production is concerned, I think it opens up one big opportunity right here for malfeasance, because if you go to these malls, you'll see that almost 70% of these products are on the shelves of the side of the production, there's neither paisan lamb, nor Slavonic pork or pork, but it's all from imports. I will just remind myself that the city of Djakovo, therefore the City of Djakovo is one of the few cities that have made the decision to ban work on Sundays. However, the Constitutional Court has annulled such a decision under the existing law. This Regulation also enabled, and also this proposal that was to go into the procedure allowed it to be done either by the number of squares or by the number of workers which is extremely bad. In this way I don't think the desired goal will be achieved, because among other things it will be made and determined to say so and national discrimination. I think a one-day vacation is not about the Law on Trade, but about the Labour Act that must enable all workers, whether they work in a store, whether they work in the police, because sin is not about working on Sundays, Mondays, or any day of the week. It's a sin and it's the greatest sin to do without pay, and that's the case today. So I'm asking a question, and I don't want this House to pass one hypocritical law that will mean Sundays for some. So these are services without which obviously the state cannot function, and other forms of life will have the privilege of not working on Sundays. The question that has been related and which we can say, at least those who go to the store and the workers and the workers that they will work on Sundays. They'll work on Sundays. However, it won't work for three, four months, but it will work during the tourist season. Tourism itself does not come through these cruises, nor does it only occur from the sixth to the tenth month, but can occur on the continent throughout the year. So here I'll just mention, for example, the Samobor their fascilla, the Djakova drills not the bonds that are in this part of the seventh month. I will also mention that this law at the very least creates I believe that before the Constitutional Court it will not be able to pass and will not get the green light as constitutional law. Someone here mentioned the labour law itself, the protection of workers, etc. I've just heard now that the government is preparing a bill that will abolish those 0.5% salary supplements for each year of work. What's that? Is that the protection of workers or the abolition of their pay rights? At the very end, since I see this brightness, and since I too dared to say a practical believer, I could say, or paraphrasing that God created the world in the tourist season, then he would not have the right to rest, or on that one day, and probably all religions that came from the book of Genesis would have been written differently. Thank you very much. In any case, this law is just another sentence. It's fortunate that this is the first reading, and since I still have time here, there are purely this technical details. For example, the sale of goods here in Article 10 may take place in places designated by the representative body by its decision. So it's a city council or community council that really only questions executive authorities. I'm saying, with this indication that this is the first reading... mirrors. [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5432	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. It's Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5433	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, gentlemen of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. The new Law on Trade has been making a lot of disdain lately. We see it through the media, and so is today's debate, which is as we see the length. You can say no for no reason. In fact, life around us is getting more dynamic and faster. People are working more and more, of course, those who are lucky to work and there is a trend in doing shopping on Sundays. For many working Sundays, it means a lot because they fail to make a certain purchase during the week. Shopping on Sundays has also become the main, main way to actually socialize, or entertain many families. Of course, it should also be considered that many traders have to work on Sundays and that they are not adequately paid for it. But it is not for this reason that Sundays should be banned, but people who work at that time should pay honestly. Today there's been a talk here that we don't keep repeating our working hours, not working days, about exceptions from that. So, I'm gonna cut this discussion short. I would also say that the law is also discriminatory for large shopping centres and large markets that will record direct losses, and will ultimately be a loss for the state budget. The number of employees will also be reduced, all of which is possible because a certain number of workers will be fired especially in large centres. So, is that worker protection? Large losses will also be felt on tourism, and Croatia's bid will naturally be a tourist country as it is. The shops will work on Sundays during the tourist season from 6 to 13 hours, which is absurd and will bring certain direct damage. The tourist season is considered a period from June to October showing the country's non-ambition to turn Croatia into a tourist destination. Therefore, we cannot say that with one actually common decision on the tourist season, we can represent it in all parts of Croatia. It is forgotten that in Dubrovnik the cruisers have already started sailing and they sail throughout the year, not to mention one-day trips. Today I would actually look a little bit more at something that was not exactly today's speech, and these are small and family shops also that are current in the coastal-Dalmatia part of Croatia where the population is determined for entrepreneurial activities during the duration of the tourist season. By definition, the entrepreneur is a legal and natural person who carries out the activity independently and permanently with the intentional achievement of the income. This law challenges the entrepreneur because he is unable to decide on his work on his own. Lost time, i.e. Time does not work, the entrepreneur will never be able to make up for it. Until yesterday, we have sworn in entrepreneurial activities that we will not hold back, believing so-proclaimed policies of many families, that is, entrepreneurs have raised and invested in loans, and now they question their naked survival. The ban on labour gets us into the fundamental principles of freedom. Anyone who wants to work has a right to do that. Allowing the right to work only on individuals of others puts an irregular status. Allowing trades to work, we question the freedom of the individual's work as such. How, then, can some be given the right to work, and others take away the right to do so. And everyone smart will reregister and continue to do what is right for him, but the question is, how will the workers, whether the workers will now be protected? This means it's not about shopping centres, it's about small shops mostly family mainly in tourist resorts. Now Agrokor has entered the press that owns the wholesale chain, which must not work on Sundays. In fact, this would not be questionable if the kiosks or trafiks were really who they are, and that implies exclusively selling the presses on which the price and cigarettes with the price stamp were printed. Everything else which is now sold by kiosks, i.e. trade goods, and the Value Added Tax Act and the Value Added Tax Regulation stipulates that an account must be issued for commercial goods. It therefore follows that trades are not trades, but small trades with mixed goods that operate without supervision and contrary to positive laws. Rules that bind and punish other stores. So what's a trade, I think we're all witnesses to it, to see that they sell phone cards and Coca-Cole programs and water and sandwiches and cell phones and Ledo ice cream. Let's get back to those little entrepreneurs of ours, and before we pass this restrictive law, somebody must have warned them of this kind of business risk to do otherwise. The risk assessment regulated by the working time is mainly related to the selection of all relevant effects affecting the operation of mainly the working time represented by one of the essential indicators of the performance of the business. I hope in the second reading that it won't actually be like our colleague said I'll quote her "reductions in defining certain forms of trade". And lastly, I would say that there is no need to make radical decisions that are actually going to cause a lot of damage. Working on Sundays is a controversial topic, but it's too complicated. But things can be simple. In fact, the existing Law on Trade is correct but is not to be implemented consistently and there is a problem. Sundays should be allowed for those who wish to work on that day, but should also be paid as much as scheduled for work on Sundays and allow for a replacement day. Work on Sundays should be a free decision, and employers should be controlled on this. In fact, we wonder if Sunday's ban is the right to fight for workers' rights or whether it is an increase in wages and effective protection against exploitation by the employer. I still think it's a real fight for a worker. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5434	Thank you to my colleague, Shimac Bonačić. It's Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5435	Thank you very much. If you were to make such a little joke about listening to arguments on both sides of the ruling and the opposition sides, this law could be called a law on Sunday's unhappiness in trade but only sometimes. So we listen on both sides of the argument why we should, and why we shouldn't work on Sundays, although the law itself is not consistent and does not implement that ban on Sundays in trade all year. Of course, we are talking about a little broader subject, we are talking about the proposal for a law on trade that is a very important economic branch in Croatia, we should not specifically talk about economic traffic that is being achieved here. That's about 11% of the national social product, the number of employees, that's about 260 thousand people working in the trade sector, and that's why I welcome that, after a certain time, a new Law on Trade is being passed. Unfortunately, I do not support such a bill, and I hope that by the second reading, the proposal will be done and fixed to make it as high-quality as possible. I think it's good that in law itself we have defined certain basics that are related to trade, here above all I think of some basic conditions for the conduct of trade on the domestic and foreign market, to safeguard measures in import and export, to restrict trade, to unfair trade. I especially point out this because we are in our store under great influence and foreign trade chains which, of course, trade, or selling goods have a lot of products that can sometimes try to place in Danish prices. Many of the things that we have defined in this law, i.e. which we have tried to define, should be further completed, first of all, I mean the development of a part that includes a retail trade outside the store, and especially in a part of the sale via the internet because it is part of the store that has been on a big take-off lately. I think that Croatia will likely experience one boom in the next period, as business promotions on the internet are increasingly taking place. This law is made solely because of a political decision, or not exclusively, but one of the main intensities in the law is that because of one political decision to partially prohibit work on Sundays. Why part of it? Why do I say part of it? Because one part of the year is still going to work on Sundays. How is Sunday less important in July than Sunday in February? Same people, same families, but different rules. Unfortunately, as the main argument for the adoption of this law is used in this part of the situation which is the fact in trade, that employees have very small salaries, that they are not paid overtime, that they work in continuity without a day off. Are we going to settle this by passing a law like this? Is this law going to make workers more paid in trade? I'm not sure, and it's very unlikely that it won't be because of what the adoption of such a law will make income in that segment of the economy, and thus income will fall, and therefore the employers will be forced to cut costs. Unfortunately, the most frequent costs are reduced in the part relating to labour costs. Whether it will be achieved to pay overtime and allow employees not to work in continuity for 10, 15 days, maybe a month, two. They won't, because these irresponsible employers can only be forced to do effective services and pay high fines for breaking the law. What concerns is that this law is passed without any serious simulations of what its application will bring and how its application will affect the economy. As you said 11% of total income in the Croatian economy is not a small amount. So we have to have one more serious simulation of what's going to happen inside our economy when this law starts to apply. And we don't even have a simulation of what might happen in terms of sociological influences on our citizens who have become accustomed and have created certain habits of buying on Sundays. Are we going to drop our income from tourism? I think he will, no matter what we've defined certain times in which Sunday's work is allowed. I think tourism has long ceased to be a category where only three or four months of higher income can be counted on. Here, for example. in Dubrovnik, a colleague of Shuica said they already had a seven, eight-month tourism there, and they tend to last all year. Will Croatian citizens stop shopping on Sundays? Some probably will, but whoever can, I think they'll go shopping across the border, and I think this law is the most cheered by the owners of shopping centres in Slovenia and Hungary. Something small about working hours. My proposal and I hope that the law in this regard will also work to restore the possibility of cities and municipalities, especially those located in tourism-developed parts of Croatia to set their own working hours. Here the law also speaks of the protection of workers in large chains, and we forget that a large part of the trade takes place in family small shops and crafts that work for themselves and their families. Excessive, exploiting people will not be solved by this law. I propose that, instead of this way, we try to resolve this with greater support in the budget for the State Inspectorate, which clearly fails to control the implementation of the law in this economic branch with this amount of inspectors. It is also understandable, because this branch is growing year after year with income, but also with the number of squares it takes place, and the inspection is at least in quantity the inspector does not follow. Just to note that we are not even on half a square of sales squares per capita as many as there are, for example, in Slovenia. Something else about a week off. I can't figure out this approach that I'd call "try to satisfy everything," and don't help anybody, you're working a little Sundays, so it's not working. Will the passing of this law be on the other side of a higher salary at the store? No, it will only be achieved by adopting a minimum wage law, because it is a shame that this branch has the lowest average salaries of all economic branches in Croatia. On average, 30% less than the average in Croatia. Will this law allow this economic branch to develop, to hire people, to be decently paid for its work? I don't think so, because now that this law is passed, a lot of the workers are going to be fired in large trade chains, they're going to be out of their jobs, a large amount of small family trades that are the only source of income will be closed. And finally, I want to say that I expect until the second reading to be done, especially in the part I said, working time. Examples should be taken from countries in our environment Italy, Slovenia, especially countries based on tourism. In the end, I think it's bad to solve one problem by creating another. The wages of an unworthy man, the exploitation of employees will certainly not be settled by this law, so we shouldn't even try. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5436	At the hearing of MP Maras, we have one replica, representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5437	Your Honor, Madam Vice President. Your Honor, I would like to replicate in this section concerning Sunday's work and tourist destinations in Croatia. Today, Croatia is an entire tourist destination. This is also shown by indicators from various foreign sources, agencies that declared Croatia a tourist destination number one years ago, and this very law regarding Sundays and holidays will not help in any case by determining that trade can only work from 1.6 to 1.10. But I would take this opportunity here, given that Vice President Jarnjak, given that this red light was burning on me, so I initiated an amendment to the holiday law, and as mayor of the 15th of November 2006, I sent it to the Croatian Parliament on the hands of the president. In Croatia there are Christmas holidays, Christmas is not listed anywhere, but in Croatia Easter as the biggest Catholic holiday The holiday law is not defined, but this holiday is Easter Monday, so according to that old law and the Sunday working rule on Easter Day in Croatia could work. So, the SDP will initiate an amendment to the holiday law since we believe that Easter has to be the same as Christmas in particular must be listed as the holiday in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5438	Replication response, Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5439	Thank you very much. Mr. Vinkovic, you've noticed that well. This morning, at the presentation of this new law and the esteemed Deputy Prime Minister, he mentioned that an exception is being made because we are a tourist country and from 1.6 to 1.10 should be given the opportunity to work on Sundays. I think that approach is truly surprising to me and I don't know if it was supported by the Minister of Tourism, because it is clear that Croatia can't base or go anywhere in the world more tourism is based on a quarterly approach, i.e. that during the summer, tourists will come to Croatia. I am sure that even today a cruiser has sailed into Dubrovnik and that if there are people there, if this law is passed they will not be able to spend, that is, not today, but that this week they will be able to catch a cruise in Dubrovnik and that if such a law is passed that week when the law is in force they will not be able to buy anything. It's a very selective and strange approach so it's honestly unclear to me why it's taken as one criterion to create an exception that it can work on Sundays, just three months a year.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5440	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. It's Agent Vladimir Ivkovic's turn. He's gone. And last reported for the debate, MP Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5441	Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! I will not repeat all these numerous controversys that, in previous discussions, my colleague and colleagues have highlighted about the effects of the law, about the fact that only one segment of the labour market is being arranged, that there is a lot of uncertainty about what the real effects of the law will be, but I would ask the Proposer to keep an eye on the trade side of the law. This law threatens to become one in a series of our bad nomotechnical laws. There's plenty of time to fix things, so here I am, free, maybe warn some. Starting with the very definitions, I may not understand until the end of the matter, but the trade on a little is buying goods for further sale. It is also a retail trade, and sometimes it sells goods that are not bought but are located in its own production. Furthermore, it is completely unclear why the Law on Trade addresses the question of whistles. It's a matter that's general for all activities and I don't see why you put whistles in there. Then you have, well that's really maybe a tipfelera thing, but so on. Dead souls in Article 46 you have those marks for items,... There's no item. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then there are a lot of provisions that do not comply with the criminal law system. Here, in 1.1, a new Criminal Code came into effect, and the government is already breaking it up by law, so I would like to warn of some failures in the violation provisions. First of all, you have an unusual terminology where you're saying that with a fine, you're going to take away property benefit. A measure will be given in a misdemeanor, and it will not be carried out, will it? Then you have a completely incompatible law in violation orderly application of certain measures, protective measures so that some times they are obligatory, some of them are not and that is not exactly in accordance with the law, the new Law of Infractions. Also, when you took away the property, you used to go to the obligatory, somewhere uncoherent and in accordance with the Law of Infractions. You have also prescribed in Article 77 the special jurisdiction of the administrative authorities for the conduct of the infringement procedure and that of the foreign inspectorate and customs administration, thus saying that the foreign inspectorate will conduct the infringement proceedings referred to in Article 71(1), paragraph 6. It's a purchase of goods abroad for sale, etc. And it's completely unclear why a misdemeanor is not being conducted in front of a foreign exchange inspectorate for other similar violations that have elements of abroad, similar. So there's no difference. You've put one on a foreign currency inspectorate, and some, since you haven't specifically stated, fall under the jurisdiction of the criminal courts. The same applies to customs offices because you are in paragraph 2. 77. prescribed that the infringement referred to in paragraph 77(1) of subparagraph 12. So contrary to this law, exports or imports of goods without a certain certificate, etc., and 13th, which applies equally to the treatment of temporarily imported, exported goods, did not put into the jurisdiction of the customs office which I do not think has any specific logic. So in addition to these principles of the observations that are here, I say I will not repeat because we have already heard the 20th discussion on the subject, I warn that the nomotechnical level of this law is relatively low and that it would be good to technically arrange for a second reading. And of course, if possible, the rest of the legal system is not split up by prescribing measures in such a way as to infringements and infringements in a way contrary to the Law on Infringements, or the Criminal Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5442	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the individual debate between the MPs and the MPs. The speech was requested by the proposing representative, State Secretary Tamara Obradović Mazal.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5443	Thank you, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I really thank you for the debate held on the basis of the draft Law on Trade, the draft Law on Trade, not the Law on Prohibitions, not the Law on Unhappiness, not the Law on Habits or Social Values, but the law governing concrete activity. The law which defines and which we have tried to define who the trader is, who can carry out the commercial activity, the law establishing the basis for the online trade that introduces this concept in the Law on Trade which the note was solved by the Law on Electronic Trade, the Law on Electronic Signature, given that electronic business and electronic trade has been mentioned quite often in the assembly today. Likewise, this law lays down the conditions for direct sales operations, this law introduces us into the internal market of the European Union. It lays down measures to protect domestic production, this law, apart from working time and work on Sundays, also deals with the specific regulation of the conditions for meeting minimum technical requirements for carrying out commercial activities. So if our imaginary tourist really wants to buy a tire on Sundays, he'll know the sequence of this law where and in what kind of store, instead of going to the theater or to the museum or to look at an exhibition, where that tire will actually be able to buy. A few brief references to your esteemed debate. About Sunday, and since it's also about P.Z.E. The law, which seeks to introduce, in its regulatory content, the best practice of the European Union in addition to those of which we have coordinated ourselves with a higher level of concrete acquis, would indeed be easier and easier if, instead of 27 different approaches that apply in the European Union at this time, it would indeed be easier to have a universal model, a uniform approach that we would simply translate into our own legislation. So what we were trying to do in our first reading through the draft bill is a bridge between the needs of people, between the needs of the public, between the needs of those 260 thousand employees in trade, a bridge between these needs, between the need to enable economic growth and development, to enable entrepreneurial freedom, but also so that those people who ask us daily in stores when they will take a breath between their needs to really take a breath. This draft bill is higher than work on Sundays trying to establish this balance, that balance, that bridge between the apparent need on one side of the public, the need to take Sundays and take a breath and rest, and rest but also to make some profit that we understand, of course, in business everyday life. So, listening to the needs of these people, these 260 thousand people employed in trade, in this activity we sought to establish this very balance by this bill. Of course, in those months when it will be allowed to work on Sundays, when the inflow of consumers will be such that we will have to respond to their needs to the infrastructure, what we want is to see that the State Inspectorate, starting from its jurisdiction, is really controlling the implementation of this law, controlling the implementation of other laws that potentially violate workers' rights, and that the whole legislative framework that has been mentioned today except for the Law on Trade, so the Law on Labour, and the Law on Consumers, and the Law on Food above all, the State Inspectorate, therefore, in its full legislative form through the implementation of the State Inspectorate. As for working hours, there were several remarks on working hours from 6 a.m. to 21 o'clock p.m. to 6 o'clock in the morning to 13 o'clock a.m. on Sunday afternoons. I would like to point out that this is a framework within which a store can start working at 6, 7, 8, 9, or 10 hours if it is estimated to be economically sustainable and cost-effective. The upper limit of closing the door of the store is 21 and 13 hours a week, respectively. Therefore, we do not suggest that bread and milk must be purchased on Sundays at 6 and 15, depending on the store, depending on the decision of that milk, this bread can be bought at 7 o'clock and 8 o'clock, respectively. It's important to set the upper and lower working limit of the store just on Sundays. There were concrete suggestions regarding the regulation of technical conditions for shops. For nomotechnical legal reasons, we decided to regulate this by means of a sublegal act, given that it is technical details that would erode the normative content of the law given the detailedity of the regulation of technical conditions. We also need to respond to modern needs that arise during the development of trade activities. It is extremely practical then to intervene in the normative content of the sublaw as opposed to the legal text. What the Law on Trade certainly isn't, he's not an instrument to prevent the arrival of bad goods on our shelves. In fact, someone mentioned that the European Commission's resolution to prevent the outbreak of infected food was not installed, I think the swine fever was at stake on our shelves. In such cases, what our veterinary inspection or veterinary administration is doing next to the European Commission's notice would take advantage of the opportunity and I would say that because it prevents the arrival of such goods by its mechanisms on the shelves of our trade, not based on the Law on trade, but on the basis of the Law on State Inspectorate and Market Oversight, the State Inspectorate withdraws such goods from the shelves. The law on trade is not, in this case, in this context, an instrument which prevents or closes a store door in the event of the need to intervene such situations. Since I have already mentioned the European Commission and I think Brussels is also set as an example of the length of working time and work on Sundays, let me say that Brussels is the capital of the internal market of the European Union, the internal market for which trade and as an activity but also as a policy must be adapted. We will be the 28th mosaic of the whole internal market when we enter the European Union. Unfortunately, and from the perspective of someone who is personally involved in the negotiations and in the taking over of legal gain, it is in that part of national legislation that, unfortunately, the least attention has been paid today. Therefore, I would like to thank the esteemed Pejcinović-Burić for putting the context of the debate and the emphasis of the debate on the freedom of movement of goods where the Law on Trade is one of the key factors, legal factors in the part relating to the internal market in the context of freedom of movement of goods as one of the four hearts of the internal market valid in the European Union and, of course, constitutes a key element of what is expected of the future Member State in the conditions of the functioning of the common market. By mentioning Brussels if you happen to and I think some of the esteemed MPs have had a personal experience of having to live in Brussels you find it during the working day and you have this accident that your meeting ended five minutes after 6 hours that day if you have any consumer desires since the shops close at 18 hours of your wish you won't be able to meet. The least you can do in Brussels on Sundays. I'd go back to the balance, the balance that we wanted to establish between society, between traders, between workers, between families. We believe that the proposed text of the law has created a good foundation, a foundation in this first reading. Following your review and the very concrete debate and concrete proposals you had during the debate, we will use them as a focus in preparing the draft law in the second reading, of course with an adequate nomotechnical correction. I also thank you for looking back at the nomotechnical character. And the preparations for the second reading will be done. And on this occasion, I thank our partners from the ranks and trade unions, employers, employers' associations, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the bodies of the state administration and the academic community. Once again, let me thank you for your comments, comments, and the quality of the discussion we had today in our first reading about the Trade Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5444	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Honorable representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5445	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament, Madam Secretary of State. I guess she talked about economic sustainability and cost-effectiveness, talking about how these shops should work from 6.30 to 13.30 p.m., etc. However, I would dare say that the secretary of state is not aware of what he is saying. One Poreč, a respected lady, is not Brussels, one Rovinj is not Brussels, one is Dubrovnik not Brussels. How do we say one textile shop works from 6:30 to 13.30 a week when at that point everyone either sleeps or is at sea. Let the respected ladies work, let them have it. It is they who provide you with wages, not you, for them. Your mission is only one. [[Ivan Jarnjak: Correction of an incorrect quote, not a replica.]] Let people work, to have. The season should work 24 hours a day,.../Ivan Jarnjak: Thank you. You're out of time. I thank you. Whether it's a trade, whether it's a catering facility, whether it's a trade...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5446	Thank you, Your Honor. You're out of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5447	I'm sorry, then.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5448	You don't have to apologize, but don't overstep time. I am closing the debate and we will vote on this law after the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5449	Proposal for a trade law, this is first reading, P.Z.E. Number 21. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a law on trade and 2. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please engage and vote! Thank you. I find that with 74 votes for, 4 abstentions and 42 against, let this whole process go to the end, this proposal has been adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5450	We're going to the third point on the agenda. - Report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2007 in accordance with Article 25(3). The law on the right to access information has been submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia with a report on the implementation of that law. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Information, Information and Media. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain the report? Yeah. Antun Palaric, State Secretary of the Central State Administration Office. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5451	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Representatives and Gentlemen Representatives. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is making great efforts in the transparency of the work of part of the public authorities and also in the application of the Law on the right to access information, and in accordance with the legal obligation we are now submitting here the fourth annual report on the application of this law. So, for the first time, the law was in place in 2004, so all these years we've been making great efforts to fully apply the law. In 2007, all public authorities received 3670 requests for access to information. Those demands were generally adopted. The applicants received the answer within the legal time limit. 53 requests have not yet been resolved because they were received at the end of the year and 124 requests have been rejected. In this report, we cited what activities we have carried out in the application of the law, but we have listed by the public authorities, especially the central authorities of the state administration, as it has been, as far as the requirements have been accepted, which the requirements have been rejected with a brief content of the reasons why these requirements have been rejected. From the fact that from year to year, the number of requests for access to information has fallen. Because I would remind all of us that in 2004, we received 1,600 applications and 2005, respectively. 4499, 2006. 4357, and 2007. 3670 requests. In fact, we read that the transparency of public authorities' work has been achieved. In fact, using modern technology, using websites, using government services, my administration is made available to interested citizens so much information that there is virtually no need to apply, however, a slow mechanism that this law allows. I believe that the report was made in detail, it was submitted within the deadline, and that also means virtue in the application of this law. We also published a list of public authorities for 2007 within the deadline of January. We have conducted a wide education of civil servants who are in charge of the authorities of the state administration to exercise the right to access information. We still feel like we have a weakness in achieving this law in certain units of local self-government. We will make additional efforts during 2008 to prepare units of local self-government for the full application of this law. We believe that the 2008 report will be even better than this, that it will be less demanding. Because as I have said, public authorities are open to citizens, responding daily to requests, and citizens are many registries, many records, many data that may be of interest, and none of which are of course personal data of citizens who are protected by a special law, and everyone can reach them. I would only mention that in our Central State Administration Office, everyone can get information about political parties, more than 34,000 registered associations, trusts, foundations, religious communities and everything we keep official records about. We have made an effort to state in this report those requests that have not been accepted, which have been rejected with arguments why they have been rejected. There are still several lawsuits in the Administrative Court and the practice of the Administrative Court is for us, therefore, guidance in the application of the laws and judgments that we receive, not to comment but to execute them. I ask the esteemed representatives to accept this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5452	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system? No, I don't. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities? No, I don't. The Committee on Information, Information and Media? Yeah. The chairman of the board, the distinguished representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5453	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Committee on Information, Information and Media discussed at the 3rd session held on 26 March 2008, the report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2007 submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 6 March 2008. The Committee considered that report as a parent working body. In its opening statement, it pointed out that under the Law on the right to access information, all public authorities are required to submit a report to the Central State Administration Office on the implementation of the law for the previous year by 31 January at the latest. The Office submits the United Report to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the Government submits it to the Croatian Parliament for acceptance by 31 March at the latest. This is the fourth such report, and unlike in 2004, when there were about 19,000 requests for access to information, 3 thousand and 670 requests were received last year. At the time of the debate, the committee had the conclusions of the Croatian Journalist Society, from the round table on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2007. The debate draws attention to the fact that a report by some public authorities and to how many requests were made by natural persons and how many legal persons, while some of them are missing. Also, the report did not say what was wrong with those bodies that did not respect their obligation. It is also held that the methodology for drawing up the report is not good, since the Central State Administration Office only enters the data supplied to it by the bonds of the law if they are delivered to it. Furthermore, it is not clear which bonds have provided incomplete or false data, nor have those bonds that have not delivered anything at all, and it is proposed that, in accordance with the conclusion of the Croatian Journalist Society, that report be returned to the completion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which the members of the Committee did not support. It prevailed with the opinion that the report should be accepted, but that it should be complemented by these data in the future. After the debate, the committee decided to propose a conclusion to the Croatian Parliament, with a majority of 7 votes in favour and 3 votes in favour. A report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2007 is hereby adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5454	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. In the name of the clubs is the first club of HDZ. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Honorable Representative Tomislav
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5455	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the 2007 report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information. The law on the right to access information in the Republic of Croatia provides the right to access information of public importance for legal and natural persons through the openness and public action of the public authority. The right to access information available by public authorities is one of the fundamental human rights protected by the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, as well as the Convention on Access to Information to International Treaties and Provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. It should not in particular be stressed that the right to access information owned by public authorities is particularly significant in transition countries where public authorities still fail to respect the principle of public work established in modern societies as an instrument of control by citizens. As a result, the control of the implementation of the Law on the right to access information of particular importance and the report in question has full meaning and meaning. The report shows that public authorities received a total of 3 000 670 requests for access to information for 2007. A total of 3 thousand 385 requests were resolved, so about 90%. 54 requests have not been resolved, 124 requests have been rejected, 107 requests have been made to the competent authorities. Therefore, we can say that the public authorities have, as a rule, dealt with a large majority of requests for access to information on a timely basis, or applied the provisions of the Law on the right to access information, thus enabling legal and physical persons to access information that is relevant and relevant to them. The report shows that the number of requests for access to information from year to year is increasing. The number of applications in 2004 was 19 thousand 600, 2005 4000 449, 2006 4000 357, and in 2007 3 thousand 670 applications. One of the reasons why this is so, i.e. why it is becoming less and less demanding is the fact that public authorities have a large majority of the information they have that is relevant to citizens, they publish via the Internet, web pages or other means, thus achieving openness and public action by the public authority and access to information to a wide range of users. Therefore, the implementation of the Law on the right to access information can be assessed as well, as the report shows that public authorities are acting publicly and transparently, through a positive solution to individual requests for access to information available or through public disclosure of decisions and other information, and enables citizens to have one of the fundamental human rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5456	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, Honorable Representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5457	Dear Mr. Pth-President, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party MPs' club will not support this report for three reasons. The first is that the report is unreliable, the second is that the report is incomplete and the third is that it is not handled even though it brings some alarming news. It is untrustworthy primarily because it is based on reports 55.21% of the total number of public bodies which are legally obliged to provide information on how to implement the Law on the right to access information. So, above all, the fact that citizens have sent 3 thousand 670 requests for access to information is not correct. Unfortunately, we do not know how real the number is because I will remind you of the request of the Central Office of the State Administration only one out of the 21 county courts, then only 5 out of 107 municipal courts, only 3 out of 110 criminal courts, and only one state attorney's office of 60 of them, and the municipal state's attorneys didn't refer to any of this. Whether or not the public authorities are responding to their legal obligation, I don't know, but I do know that if anything else from the courts and the lawyers is expected to be the first to implement and comply with all the laws. So if the fact that the law is respected, let's say it is in the sense that the performances, i.e. written demands of the citizens, correspond neatly and within a time frame, then it is said that they do not inform the central state office which is a violation of the law. Furthermore, this report is incomplete because nowhere do we have any information about what the central state office, or the Central Office of the State Administration, has taken in cases where there was no official response? So it is obvious that measures are not being implemented or taken, if there is no word about them in this report. Furthermore, the fact is also that a large number of cities and municipalities did not respond to their obligation, which I recall was not created last year, because this is already the 4th report in front of the Croatian Parliament. If this report is a form that the Croatian Parliament should accept only because it fulfils the legal obligation of the annual examination of the report submitted by the Government, then we do not need it at all, because it is obvious that individual bodies, public bodies, also fulfil their legal obligations by initiative, i.e. in the very way of functioning of their bodies, because they believe that this is part of their responsibility to the public, that this is part of their responsibility to the citizens, and it is obvious that a greater number of these bodies did not need the law in order to communicate with citizens. However, the fact is that the law that has been in force for four years has been unable to bring all public administration bodies into compliance with it. It's an alarming thing and we're expected to say something about it, but it's also expected from the government, or the central office to propose measures, or to report what he's done in those cases. I accept the possibility that certain municipalities that do not have a large administration, where the entire administration of the municipality makes only one person not valid to this type of communication with the central state authority, but this certainly does not apply to county, municipal courts, municipal criminal courts, to the state's attorney. Furthermore, in July 2006, the government adopted a strategy for creating an incentive environment for the development of civil society, which is correctly reported by the Central Office of State Administration. The strategy and the operational programme that followed it shall specify the shortcomings of this law. So, for a year and a half, the government has been aware of the lack of this law that makes it difficult to implement it, and nothing works to get ahead of us with amendments and additions. It is therefore expected that in cases where the Government sees the problem itself in the application of the law, it reacts immediately and prepares the draft law through the competent authority. Furthermore, I have a few examples here that clearly show how it works in this system. I'd single out the Ministry of Finance because it's a really interesting case. So someone, who is quoted here, is asking for a delivery from the data whether a certain company is carrying out its tax obligations. Therefore, the answer can be yes or no, and it is answered that this cannot be reported and the request is rejected because the information is considered a tax secret. Furthermore, Emnest International Explicate asks whether they paid a value added tax to those who carried out football transfers? The finance ministry refuses to give any information about it because it says it's a tax secret. It is possible to talk about concrete amounts is a tax secret, but every citizen of the Republic of Croatia has the right to know who pays and who doesn't pay the tax. Not as much as he pays him, it's a question recorded in his tax card, but also us as the Parliament and Government responsible for charging the state budget, and certainly must be interested in who pays and who doesn't pay from those who are due to pay. Furthermore, how does the system of public response, i.e. at the request of citizens, work, we see from this report, but if the Ministry of Finance is unable to answer the question of representatives for 30 days, what is also a legal obligation, how will they answer the question of citizens? We got a response on the bench today on March 20th. I remind you that the minister on Friday told reporters that he would send a report. What Friday was the date you see so you'll know? And otherwise it's all published on Saturday. So, if we can't get timely information, so when that information is sent and sent, when it doesn't have what it has to contain at all, and that's the answer to the question, a copy of the regulation adopted by the Government is sent to the agent, and he didn't ask that at all. He asked something else. And since the ministry obviously doesn't want to answer, it's going to have to be the subject of some other question. And let me finish. And this law is one of the very important laws that will standardise our behaviour in the European family of peoples. It is therefore more than important to remove those illogical and difficulties already observed by the Government and to underline here that the Central Office of the State administration is moving to change and supplement as soon as possible, so that it nives down to one level that is acceptable to international standards, but also that is operational and that will allow all to comply with the law and on the other hand that those who do not respect it are sanctioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5458	Thank you. The next speaker is on behalf of SDP's distinguished representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5459	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club cannot and will not accept this report. Here's a reason. First, the methodology for drawing up this report is not good. It is such that the Central State Administration Office only collects reports that are sent to him by public authorities and then builds one buildup, sends it to the Government, the Government sends it to the Parliament, and that is then this report. In this regard, we do not have a clear picture of what is actually the state of compliance with this law when barely half the body of the public authorities delivers its reports to the central state office at all. What's the status of those who don't deliver reports we don't know. So an optimistic picture of how everything is fine, how the law is respected and implemented doesn't really stand, it's one deception. We hear here on behalf of the HDZ Club that they support this report because the state with the right to access information in Croatia is good because it is seen from this report. It's just that we don't understand where they saw it, when it's not written here, but it says the opposite that half of them don't deliver at all. That report isn't true. It's not true, it's fake, it's so one... states. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is the point of accepting reports in the House that tell us nothing and even less tell us the public? This means not to solve one deception but to reconcile with this deception and to accept and agree to be deceived and to deceive the entire public by continuing to accept this report. Well, in this business of deception and deception, the SDP club will not participate. What's out of this, the kind of report that's been made anyway? So we see that the state bodies don't respect the law. It's one situation for this House to be intrusive. Therefore, we must not treat ourselves lightly. We make laws here. And be careful, when a law is passed that applies to citizens, that law is strictly implemented. Then watch out for the law. But if we accidentally pass one such law applicable to state bodies such as this law where bonds of public authorities are, then they think that they are not subject to the country's positive regulations and they simply do not implement them. Well, fellow MPs, I don't think we should get back together with that, but because we're elected by citizens, because that's how we agree to the position that citizens' laws are related and not for state bodies. Already here, a colleague from the HNS club spoke about the decision of the judicial authorities on this law, county and municipal courts, the state's attorneys of municipal, county. So it's something terrible when only the judiciary doesn't enforce the laws, just the judiciary. We're not talking about local self-government units. But it's not just the judiciary. It describes what Minister Lovrin was doing here. It's described in this cheap report. You see, under the Department of Justice chapter on page 17, point 9.5, one request in that ministry was rejected and the case was then described. Some... from Zagreb asked the ministry what happened to the presidents of the courts? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, he was answered to complete that request, for what to answer to such an unwise question. But on page 30, under point 5, you have a description of what actually happened at the Justice Department. It's through a report on the Administrative Court. There is a sitting description: I.G. A free journalist from Zagreb filed a lawsuit against the Justice Minister's solution for refusing to access information requesting the delivery of names of persons who are members of two or more supervisory committees. The outcome: the lawsuit is respected, the Justice Minister's solution of the Republic of Croatia is annulled. But the justice minister did not put her shame in the report and send it to the state's office. No, I don't. She described there as some kind of lame, peripheral case where some citizen put out a stupid inquiry. And her disrespect for the law, she didn't describe it. That's what we learned from the court's report. What did we find out? First, that the minister did not comply with the law and did not supply the requested information to the journalist. Second, that he is incompletely and falsely informing the Central Administration Office by keeping that information secret. And thirdly, you must now think that she respected the court's ruling, you must have all thought that. It's not. No such information has been delivered to the press by the Administrative Court at any time. What does the minister say? No matter what I care about the laws, I will not enforce the law. And most, the parliamentary majority, as far as we've heard from the HDZ Club, that's acceptable and welcome and they'll vote for it. That's what a minister would like them to do, and it's the Justice Minister. Furthermore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia at the request of Radio 101 Jelena Berković for the government to deliver her agendas from its closed sessions of course what other than refusing to provide that information because that information has a certain degree of secrecy, please nice session agendas are secret in this country. It is in itself scandalous that it is the secret agendas of the session. She filed a complaint, the government rejected the appeal as illegal, given that the government's decision of the Republic of Croatia is finally in the administrative procedure, so it cannot be declared a complaint against it. So, the same body that refused to give her the information, of course, refuses her appeal for not giving her the information. Journalist Jelena Berkovic is seeking to deliver government decisions that were taken during the 2007 press session closed to the public. And now listen well. The government is asking it to be completed and to specify exactly what decisions it is seeking. First of all, they refuse to give her any information they had on the agenda and when she asks you to give me those decisions she says don't tell us, let us know exactly what decision you're looking for from that agenda we didn't want to deliver. This is the attitude of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the public, to journalists and to this law. Listen, it's mocking the law, it's by the Government of the Republic of Croatia making fun of this law, it's mocking the public. This shows the government's haughtiness, its contempt for the citizens of this country but we see that such behaviour by the government for the parliamentary majority is precisely desirable. It is welcome and desirable, so the parliamentary majority will accept this report because they think that each government should behave that way, that it should be mocked by the public, that it is not necessary to comply with the laws. Those decisions, I know it's embarrassing for you to listen. And my God. Those decisions made by the government at closed sessions are equal to 603. I suppose most of them refer to the financing of some institutions and, of course, it's completely non-transparent because it's in closed sessions. It was accidentally found out that, for example, from the budget stock for the needs of the Catholic Church, it singled out 71.4 million kunas before the elections, and then after the parliament was disbanded, of course, at a closed session of the government. Now we're wondering what else is going on with 602 other decisions. How much money and to whom the Government has assigned in closed sessions and refuses to inform both the public and this Parliament and anyone in this country. This report does not show which bonds have supplied incomplete or false data and which have not delivered anything at all. As far as we can see, there's almost half of them, but there's no list of those who delivered and lists of those who didn't deliver. Which is why there's no record of that. Well, if that were at least that would be a lot richer because it's very much so, we'd spend more paper if the report were written, but at least we'd have information about who doesn't respect the laws if nothing else, which are institutions. Well, we know the leaders of these institutions, so we could question their responsibility. But that's exactly what he wants to hide through this report, the responsibility of those chosen to be responsible and set up to be responsible. Well, such a cover-up of responsibility by the parliamentary majority approves and accepts through the acceptance of this report, it is a desirable behavior for it. For example, concrete examples concern obtaining insight into the property cards of judges. That information has never been delivered and the request has been made. Furthermore, Dubrovnik-Neretva Mayor Mira Buchanan answers a concrete journalistic question that retains his right not to answer. Look out, she reserves her right not to answer. First, she has no right not to answer, but she has an obligation to answer, but she thinks she has someone right no matter who she is. That's why I don't speak partyly here, this is a question of the public's right to information and the duties of a body with public authority to comply with this law and to respond to citizens' enquiries. For all things today, a session was held, or a round table of the Croatian Journalist Society, where the application of this law was discussed. They're journalists, they intercede between the public authorities and the public themselves. They're intervening. They have made significant remarks on this report. They also agree that this law is not implemented, that it is not respected. They also informed the Committee on Information, Information and Media and the conclusions from that round table were shared on that committee. Nevertheless, the parliamentary majority in that committee, of course, care what journalists think about the implementation of this law. They accepted this report most of the votes. There are also some ideas that the law is wrong, that the law should be complemented. Maybe we should fill it in. A test of public interest should be introduced inside, means supplementing the provision to establish a situation where there is a public interest for the public to know certain information, that it should extend the circle of the debtors to be therefore also users of the state budget, to more specifically regulate the procedure, especially with regard to the appeal so as not to have a situation for the applicant to resolve the claim. But we can change the law and dress as much as we want, it's all expensive senseless. It's a waste of effort. If the law and the law are not implemented and it is not implemented, if the principle of it stands with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Minister of Justice. Then we have no right to hope at all that any changes to the law could fix this situation. This is ripe for seeking political responsibility for those who do not implement this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5460	Thank you. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. He is the first respected representative of Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5461	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, the esteemed representative literally said that this report, I quote, is a lie, a lie and a lie. That's a false allegation. On the contrary. This report is true and is related to the data collected even properly and processed. And the deception and the lie is when you esteemed MPs comment on the decisions of the Administrative Court, so you're actually deluding the incorrectly stating the information found in this report. So, you deceive the public when you comment and cite the decisions of the Administrative Court as in terms of its specific decision in terms of the application of this law. It was both a hoax and a lie from this pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5462	Thank you. And another correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5463	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague incorrectly stated that there was no idea what decisions were made or what decisions were taken at closed cabinet meetings. That's not true. The Government is obliged to make public its decisions, regardless of whether they are in a closed or open session, and it does so neatly and properly respects the laws and publishes decisions taken and in the closed part of the session. It's another thing. You said it was scandalous to hold closed government sessions. This is also not true again, because it is in accordance with the law and our Government has closed meetings of the Government between 2000 and 2003, and nothing is contrary to the law. And a third thing. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Stazic called his coalition partner at the county level in Dubrovnik-Neretva County, and you have the opportunity to do so and in agreement with her and Armira Buconjic is a coalition partner of SDP in Dubrovnik-Neretva County if you forget.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5464	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5465	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. On page 43, it is literally said that the Agency for Legal Transport and Real Estate Intermediation further in the APN text in 2007 received 48 requests for the right to access information all clear from natural persons and then continued. All 48 requests have been denied. 12 complaints have been filed. Everything's been denied. It's still going on. According to the reports delivered, the right to information has been requested by the authorising officer through the power of attorney. The request for access to information and the powers attached were incomplete and incomprehensible, and were called upon to remove identified deficiencies in accordance with the General Administrative Procedure Act. In 12 cases, the authorising officer did not act as requested, and the requests were rejected. In 36 cases, the authorising officer completed the request, but not as requested, and the requests were rejected or rejected. Now, I think it's almost incredible that the secretary of state that all 48 requests have been rejected by the Agency for Legal Transport Real Estate Intermediation, etc. The APN. On the other hand, we like to boast as you mentioned that everyone in this country is allowed access to information. Maybe we're not even far from one of those standards. Today, we are free to say that there is no information to which, if not that citizen MPs, and then the media, let's say, can't come. It's almost all on the market today, that any information can be obtained. I have the impression that nothing is secret anymore. Sometimes I get published just about every piece of information he knows how to irritate, 'cause it turns out we're hollows like Swiss cheese. But we agreed that the availability of information is a single civilization standard and it's good that the public is kind of informed in this way. So, if anything is available to the public, let's say. One thing in this country hides from the government as a snake hides its feet, and that's, say, the defense register. The public is absolutely up for the publication of that register, but now no less than once and part of the defence associations which, for the publication of these registers, were so to say by yesterday or the day before yesterday, suddenly the publication of that register began to oppose. For me to be honest, it's no problem if some minister was in the military government, if he was a state secretary or what he was then a deputy minister was in the war government, so he wasn't on the front, he wasn't in the trench, and he has a recognised status as a participant in the Homeland War. That's absolutely no problem for me. There should be. But if the Croatian state doesn't stand on the ball when it comes to the rights that we are referring to today's Homeland War, we will, as a country as much as it has done to someone and simply go bankrupt. We today have over 44,000 people with disabilities in the Homeland War, 500,000 defenders. There are 15,000 Croatian citizens waiting for the status of the disabled Homeland War at this time. We ended the war there in '96 with about 30,000 people with disabilities. It turns out, gentlemen, that after the Homeland War, we fought another war, clearly this time a war for martial law. With the status of a participant in the Homeland War, as you know, there is a pension of 45% of the average salary with the status of a disabled Homeland War. So, the disabled goes to apartments, they go to children's rights, women's benefits, family benefits, etc. A whole series of other benefits that I am not now citing these elements from the positive regulations. A real disabled man who lost his hand, a leg in a war, in a camp, should absolutely belong to everyone. Anything that one state, one responsible government, one community can give to these people. But also these investigations led either by the government or the state's attorney or the police... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5466	Your esteemed representative Cain, you're a little distant from the subject. Maybe a little turn towards... Stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5467	That for these rights, this country is now spending more than 4 billion kuna on this budget for 2008. Over 4 billion kunas. And now the defense register for us no less than becomes or remains a state secret. I think without the publication of such a register this report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2007 is simply a dead letter on paper. We're dealing with marginals, and what's costing this country over four billion kunas is as if it's none of our business. I also dare say that there is no state that is more consistent in caring for the participants of the Homeland War mainly about people with disabilities than the Republic of Croatia does. The problem is that corrupt commissions miss thousands and thousands of people in that status that they don't belong to and that's what to get up against, that's what to talk about, that's what to fight, that can't be tolerated. Perhaps Mrs. Pancic and some who suggested a disability review were right there, but what we're going to do is follow us. It would be just as fair if in the same way we treat the disabled of the Homeland War and treat the NOR participants, because the lost hand of someone on Peter's mountain or in Buzet 43 is as valuable as that hand that someone lost in 91st in Vukovar or elsewhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5468	Dear Representative Cain, please stick to the subject and don't go so far historically.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5469	We will not go well in the past, although this past costs someone and today, but let's touch page 50 where it is literally said that the law should be complemented by a provision to determine the situation where there is a public interest for the public to know certain information, quote literally from word to word so that no one interrupts me, public interest in publishing information always exists when the public authority would deny information to enable or conceal infringements of the Constitution, international contracts and conventions which the Republic of Croatia is a party or conceals the abuse of budgetary resources and other funds. They then say that this should be done or, at the same time, the law should be complemented in a way that complements this concept with all the users of the state budget when determining the concept of public authorities. I c) the law should, more specifically, regulate the procedure of, in particular, the jurisdiction relating to the appeal of a solution to the refusal of a request for access to information. If it is necessary for such a law on access to information to work, then I do not see any reason to delay any of these solutions, although I am willing to admit that we are making progress every day and when it comes to accessing information, it still does not mean that one such solution until it is fully published and that defence registry should be supported. There is so much with one abstention that I would like to stress once again the need for what is very integrated at this time to be very interesting for the Croatian public to have as far as possible before it can give an insight into their control or better to the court so that they can judge for themselves who enjoys the right or undeserved status that is to belong to or not belong to someone in their environment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5470	Thank you. We're done discussing clubs. We're moving on to an individual debate. She's the first law-abiding representative of Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5471	Thank you, Vice President. Since I worked for four years at the Ministry of Environmental Protection, mostly on public relations affairs, that is, media relations and relations with citizens, I am very well aware of the content of this law, about the right to access information as well as of the objectives and reasons of... the state of this law. Working on these jobs, I had the opportunity to see how much the interest of the citizens of media representatives is, as well as legal persons, to obtain information concerning the work of the public authorities, so I read the report on the implementation of this law in 2007 with great infidelity. Because I've concluded, I think completely justified, that the data presented in this document is just as amazing. But before I state the reasons why I feel that something drastic is wrong here, I will briefly remind myself of the history of creation as well as the reasons for the adoption of this law on whose implementation report we are discussing in the previous year and today. I would remind you that the coalition government led by the SDP proposed a law on the right to access information, and then the parliamentary majority also adopted this document in October 2003, with a view to raising transparency of the work of the public authority, and thus raising the quality and responsibility of the public authority. I stress that the SDP at that time, and now as a truly progressive party, is permanently committed to raising democratic standards and values of civil society, and the right to have access to information available to public authorities is one of the fundamental human rights and as such lies within the very foundations and main principles of European Union policy. This commitment by the SDP, the commitment to building a responsible democratic civil values society, is seen from the very fact that this law was passed precisely for the mandate of the SDP government. The legal document was an exceptional positive step in strengthening the fact that the partner relationship between the executive and legislative authorities and the public was finally built, especially when it comes to the attitude of the previous ten-year HDZ government. It is known that HDZ was not open to the public at the time, and it consistently showed its position by treating the interested public as an enemy. A positive view of the public towards the adoption of this extremely important document for the taking of democratic standards in the Republic of Croatia is seen also from the very content of this report, which was already mentioned by Mr. Secretary of State, i.e. from Chart number two, which shows that the Croatian public has indeed responded extremely positively to the adoption of this law, and in the first year of law enforcement, nearly 20,000 requests for access to information have been recorded. Although it could be expected that the number, with each new year of law enforcement, will grow from the simple fact that citizens will increasingly use this right, that they will know that they have at all the right to obtain such information, the practice of implementing this law under the HDZ magic spin stick has shown the diametric opposite. In other words, in the years following all the more rigorous HDZ party controls in public authorities, a constant decline in the number of requests received for access to information is recorded. From chart number two, it is crystal clear, so 4000 499 requests were received in 2005, which is an alarming decline of 15 thousand requests in just one year, in 2006, there were still 4000 357 requests, while in the previous 2007 I would say a scandalous 3 thousand 670 applications. Why scandalous? For several years, I have worked in the ministry just as I have already mentioned on information and communication affairs with the public, so I know well how many different requests for access to information arrived in the cabinet of the Minister later and the Minister, or in the Department of Information, so these small figures can only be regarded as ridiculous or even more precise as absurd. We were able to receive about a hundred questions from citizens, associations or other interested parties in the cabinet in just one week, via telephone, fax, mail, correspondence, and now this report informs us that the Ministry of Environmental Protection, which I worked in throughout 2007, has received only 94 requests for access to information. The document makers, meaning competent from the central state administration office, were aware that this figure was really small, so they better gave an unsurpassed explanation that the reason for the huge decline in the requirements received in the means of availability of information, i.e. that the information is now published on websites, that the presses are organised, that regular annual reports are published, etc., etc. As if there were no mass media, press conferences or the Internet before. Here I remind you that internet access in Croatia has 1.8 million users, but out of that only 1.43 means a total of 1.43 million use slow... access, i.e. that only 350 thousand have fast shipping and broadband access to the Internet. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This does not mean that a lot of surf and that information is downloaded from the public authorities' website, because often, you are all aware of it when you download a strategy, some law or some document it takes quite a long time and if you also have a boatedend approach. In view of the fact that many public authorities, especially local self-government, do not have their own websites, which means that they do not provide any information on these websites at all, or that those bodies of public authorities that have their own websites on those websites do not provide almost any interesting information that is of interest to the parties, or to the citizens, we see that this report really does not make sense. An explanation of the reduction of the requirements by means of arguments on means of availability of information is truly pointless because I repeat last year's 3 thousand 670 requests for access to information to all public authorities which are required under the law to enable access to information, namely the Parliament, Government, Ministry, Government and Administration, so the authorities, bodies of all local and regional self-government, legal persons with public authority, courts. All honours to the web, the alleged boom of Croatia's internetisation, are growing in the influence of mass media, but this is still just 3 thousand 670 requests for the whole year, and for all of them, I repeat all the bodies of the public authorities. When we put aside that the appearance and content of this report are unserious, i.e. that the report in this form is difficult to consider to be a serious document prepared by one government body, the report is impossible to accept because such alarming low numbers of requests point to the following disturbing conclusions. For the first time, the rulings have been implementing a well-designed policy of closing the public authority from citizens, media and interested public, because of the awareness that they will not receive information even if they are repeatedly asking the public authorities in an increasing number of cases, asking for information suggesting that the work of authorities is highly intransparency, and by ruling this law is considered to be irrelevant and pointless, i.e. by interference and public authorities are marginalising the importance of implementing this law, and such marginalisation of the law by the ruling policy in general, and in their own organization is recognised by the information officers who largely carry out this work. The sloppyness of law enforcement by the competent officials speaks of the information and that it is extremely rare to enter telephone enquiries that are very many, as well as to e-mails that certainly reach at least a few during the week, and probably during the day. And one note, so that my colleagues and colleagues from HDZ would not correct me, is not about performances, complaints and similar actions that are not subject to this law, but about the General Administrative Procedure Act. This document deeply saddened me because it is talking about the dramatic fall of democratic standards and the growing closure and non-transparentity of the work of the public authority in the past few years, and this is not the way the country whose main goal is to join the EU wants and should go. Therefore, I cannot accept this report and appeal to the authorities to be more serious in the following year, that is, in this year's implementation of this law, because all of us paid by taxpayers are here because of them, we are here to serve our citizens, not to serve our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5472	Thank you. Next. I apologize, Government representative, distinguished Antun Palaric, State Secretary of the Central State Administration Office.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5473	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I have to react so the discussion doesn't go the wrong way. I really do 20 or 30 every day, and I don't know how many phone calls, my associates, maybe even more because they're in the office. So it's not information under the Law on the right to access information. At the time, when elections were scheduled, we had over 200 thousand entries on the website, checking data on the list of voters, because it was information, it was given, but not under the Law on the right to access information. A letter when a citizen speaks to us to exercise his right, whether or not to achieve it, but it is also not information. We were working on what was directed to the Commissioner, the officer in charge of exercising the right to access information, and we were referring to the Law on the right to access information which has a protective mechanism behind it against the appeal, the complaint to the Administrative Court and beyond. But of course we're all still in the cafe here today while I'm waiting for a debate, I've had a conversation with a dozen people, everyone's interested, he's been answered, but now I can't record every conversation and then file thousands and thousands of reports. I said, we had over 200 thousand entrances to the website just to check the voters list. The citizens got the information, they were satisfied, we had so much overload, our system went down, we apologized to everyone who informed us he couldn't come in, but it's not in this law and it's not listed here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5474	Thank you. Dear Representative Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5475	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs! Well, I'm not going to repeat everything that my colleagues have already listed in front of me, but I think it's extremely important to say that this report shows that out of the 3 thousand 670 requests that the public authorities received in 2007 remained unsolved only 54. This, however, tells us about the transparency and respect of the public principle by the public authorities. Furthermore, I think it is still necessary to mention that the right to access information owned by a public authority is extremely important for the Republic of Croatia and that the Central State Administration Office throughout the year, that it is necessary to continuously monitor the implementation of the law throughout the year. It seems to me to be the Central Office of the State Department, and it does. And it is also necessary to say that for this purpose, and for the purpose of better application of the law, it has been organised by various courses, workshops for education on comprehensive insight into applicable legislation, on public access to information, consultation, etc. Furthermore, I think it is also necessary to say that there are shortcomings in the law, but I think we can say that this report is detailed and comprehensive. And here, I made a little effort last week because I was particularly interested in how people with disabilities are like natural persons and how the disabled associations went when they made requests for access to information. I must tell you, I didn't expect the most positive answers. However, out of a dozen of the organizations I have spoken to personally, and from several people with disabilities, I have received the most positive answers. And they said they were extremely pleased with the way and speed of responding to their demands. I think this is extremely important since the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities signed by the Republic of Croatia in 2007 has therefore regulated and guaranteed people with disabilities the right to access information. I must say that this convention is not yet binding on the Republic of Croatia. So I was particularly pleased to hear from the Association of Persons with Disabilities that their right to access information in 2007. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5476	Thank you. Let's move on. Dear Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5477	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. When this Law on Access to Information was passed, the report on the implementation of that law for the past year was before us, the basic motive was its basic purpose, which this law should have been given to act preventively or anti-corruptionally. Because it is precisely an insight into the information or how the government works, how institutions with public powers work, how open they are to the public, how controversial they are, how public they can control them, it is, then, in that sense, easier to act preventively, or the possibility of any corrupt behaviour being brought down, then, to a very small extent. Therefore, this law, or report on the implementation of this law, but the law itself should be observed in that light that it is just one of the basic anti-corruption laws. There is no need to draw particular attention or to warn that governments around the world are forced to give and provide more and more information to the public every year. And then when you see a little bit of this report, it's getting tighter year by year, it's not as transparent as we've been able to get it in the last few years where even the last name and last name of the official was listed in the report, and then it turns out it's not very good, because the opposition is just pointing out, so there's no more talking about it. Therefore, only the report is non-transparent. That's the basic problem. That's what my colleague Stazic was talking about on behalf of the SDP club. I'm this chart is alarming. In 2004, when more people and citizens believed that there was hope to fight, that there was hope, that there was a chance, you see how many demands there were. In 2005, it was already less, in 2006 less, in 2007 very, very little. Doesn't this chart show everything that citizens think about it being in vain at all what to ask and ask for an answer. But on the other hand, the administrative court that controls the legality of the government is getting more and more crowded every year, talking about an alarming violation. That's what the Justice Department's data show. And now get out, here's the government coming out with this report in front of us here asking whether they're really citizens, we're just the best customers here to make fun of. It is obvious that the entry into the European Union has turned into a difficult torture with yet uncertain outcome, that the Croatian government has become involved in that network of ZERP, somehow it has come out of it and that, in this way, by concealing the truth, or what the resistance to the cover-up of the truth is whether we are actually serving here. Whether people or government really think that such manipulations of truth can be fished instead of where it is to fish for human souls. He's even considered normal, he's suffering from democratic behavior, so in this way, he's accessing, he's sending a report like this. It's something that's seriously worrying, that concerns the government's attitude towards the citizens. Outside, the government acts as a meaningless servant, at home a powerful vizier, journalists complain, once declared, used this legal path, renewing the issue or after the ruling of the Administrative Court, get an answer to something they didn't even ask for. And then how do you get ahead? But you can see in reason that the government has also adopted a strategy and an operational plan to improve ways of informing citizens and amending existing and passing new laws. Well, then, it is particularly apostrophe that it is necessary to specifically define what is a public interest in public knowledge of certain data. Here it is considered to be of great wisdom to outsmart actually an advocate who asked something about how to answer it to be this much effective and to make fun of it in some way. Well, that's more like a coffee shop for some kind of, uh, jump and jump, not a way of communicating, and I'd say respect for the law. So many give up, and many MPs are more or less used by this institution to write questions because there is a very specific question, a completely different answer is received, or in general, or something that has not been asked and nothing at all. The announcement is how much we hear will be changed and the rules of procedure in that sense have already been some kind of announcements, so these which we now have before us in writing whether they gave up on the fact that they can't even ask for an additional question that would therefore require a concrete answer. And no one's answer to that. What's the secretion? Why individual ministries do not provide the answers primarily within a certain time limit but what we have here is recorded as requests that are generally accepted in a formal way but not answered. So that's what journalists have written about by name and last name, and then those who are killed are being cast out because they're boring because they're persistent. And otherwise people who insist on clearing things up are even experts in regular procedures, they become suspicious because it simply became an exception to standards and that is intransparency in policymaking and then also in providing information. So, just this fact that people are just, that just people suck up, that they don't ask their own questions anymore, that it seems like one vain job must be alarming for all of us. The central state office should be in control. Who's gonna have to control the controller with us? How they complain about people from local self-government, who have complained about certain questions whether it is justified or not, but who are seeking an answer, seek an insight or reaction from the Central State Office that should be to control the legality of conduct and acts, for example, specifically in local self-government units. They're somewhere in the day-to-day, and they've been gone for months. There you go. I'm not going to mention these municipalities and cities here, Mr. Secretary of State knows it well. And then there's this central state office that should end up preparing a report like this and being motivated by the application of this Law on the right to access information from all other ministries. Is that possible?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5478	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative of Andri Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5479	Thank you very much. A dear colleague used her speech to place a series of incorrect allegations. First, it says a reduction in citizens' demands is because they gave up. Conversely, because the system works, because you can see that over 90% of all requests are resolved if you have read the report, there is no need for additional requirements. The second incorrect entry into the European Union has an uncertain outcome, I underline the quote. What outcome did Mr Barroso tell you a week ago when he said it was a dead line or the end of the negotiations in summer 2009 for Croatia. And the third incorrect quote. Amendments to the Rules of Procedure are proposed to prevent an additional issue. No, it's to enable a supplemental response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5480	Thank you. I shall also inform you that Article 207(2) is also in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure expired time to apply for 10 minutes in 18.12 minutes. Let's move on. Dear representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5481	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The aim of the law is definitely to enable access to information to natural and legal persons through the openness and public work of the public authority. I think it is not to be repetitive, because the report on the implementation of this law clearly concludes that it is the right to access information and documents owned by public authorities and legal persons entrusted with public authority at the level to be commended, because the principle of public work established in contemporary societies as the institution of control by citizens is respected. The report also shows that the Central State Administration Office which oversees law enforcement during 2007 is a very high share of the total number of applications received. The requirements referred to, for example, to the ministries refer most often to the management of the payment and payment of funds from the state budget, reports on the financing of political parties, the financing of units of local and regional, or regional self-government. For example, requests to cities concerned the delivery of copies of documents in the area of spatial planning and spatial planning, building areas, housing rights issues, the cost of construction of unclassified roads, the purchase of business premises, public procurement procedures, municipal fees and the like. In the case of silence from the administration, the Central Office sent letters with a clear instruction on the conduct and obligations arising from the law in relation to the units to which the presentations relate with the obligation to notify them of any performance. In addition, the office made a list of public authorities last year, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia accepted it. Four courses of professional training and training were held to highlight the principle of openness and transparency of public administration. Workshops were also held on which the specific requests were processed, while the Academy of Local Democracy organised a consultation in Split on the current application of the law. A conference marking the international day was held in September. Citizens have the right to know which one was also attended by Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Mrs Jadranka Kosor. Furthermore, the office has determined the increasing abuse of this law in such a way that natural and legal persons, by referring to this law, require the resolution of their proceedings which are otherwise settled in administrative or judicial proceedings. Some shortcomings have again been very correct by the Central Office for the General Administration of this Law, which has also been identified by the national strategy for the creation of an incentive environment for the development of civil society for 2007 to 2011, which was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 2006. These are the reasons at the end of which I will personally support the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5482	Thank you. Dear Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5483	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed secretary and deputy secretary of state, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Any occurrence, person or document may be observed on at least two sides, and in that observation it is impossible to remove a certain degree of subjectivity. Appreciating the angle of looking at fellow opposition colleagues and accepting the fact that anyone, including this report, can have shortfalls. But by not accepting inappropriately difficult qualifications, I would point out the positive side of this report. One of the fundamental human symbols is freedom of opinion and expression of thought, and it is guaranteed in the Republic of Croatia by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia while the right to the availability of information available to public authorities is one of the fundamental human rights protected by the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms as well as the Convention on Access to Information. The right to access information and documents owned by public authorities and legal persons entrusted with public authority is particularly important in transition countries where public authorities still fail to respect public labour principles due to acquired habits. In the modern democratic part of the world, the normative regulation of the right to access information began at the end of the 18th century first in the Kingdom of Sweden, while today, with regard to the right to access information and documents owned by public authorities, the speedy democratisation of society suggests that as many as 30 countries in the world the Constitution guarantees the right of citizens to access information while more than 50 states have regulated the availability of information available to public authorities. In the Republic of Croatia, the Parliament adopted the Law on the right to access information in October 2003, and the aim of the law was to enable and ensure the right to access information to natural and legal persons through the openness and public action of the public authority. The supervision of the implementation of the Law on Access to Information shall be carried out by the Central Administration Office and, accordingly, all bodies of public authority shall submit a report to the Office and the Office shall, within the specified time limit, submit the Joint Report to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Government of the Republic of Croatia also submitted within the legal deadline provided for the Croatian Parliament for the adoption of this law enforcement report. It is doubtless that the law has indeed been consumed to a rather high extent. This confirms that in 2007, the public authorities received as much as 3670 requests for access to information and that they resolved 92% and 3385, respectively. In 2007, 124 requests were rejected, 107 were granted to competent authorities, while only 54 cases remained unsolved. The comparison with the number of cases in work in 2007 with the number of cases in the previous 2006 year shows the trend of a major decline in applied requests for access to information, and such a positive trend did not occur because of citizens' mistrust as we have already heard here, but because the information has become more accessible to public publications in different ways. A major contribution to the implementation of the Law on the right to access information is given by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, which publishes the case-law of the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court decisions on its website. In 2007, the Supreme Court announced 5 thousand 124 decisions and held as many as 506 public sessions. It's final. This report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information in 2007 confirms that public authorities acted transparently and publicly and therefore I believe that it should be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5484	Thank you. Dear Representative Nevio Šetić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5485	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, Madam Representatives, gentlemen of the Parliament. Let us already have entered quite deeply into this debate, a few thoughts about the report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2007. It seems to me that Croatia is entering that order of countries that have regulated this matter by law, and some even more thoroughly are building it into the Constitution. I believe that this belongs to that matter that is intruding into fundamental human rights and the fundamental democratic principles and gains that modern Croatian society carries. This is also very good since 2003 when the law was passed I believe and thanks to this law access to information in the Republic of Croatia and the transparency of public work is far greater than it was. That's a fact. There's one more thing I can say from practice. All the administrations in our ministries in government bodies are much more intense, a lot of time spent wouldn't say spending, here's the use, just to solve this issue. But here it should be said very plainly, that some questions go into some other spheres and are on the line of this law. So both administrative proceedings and court proceedings are mixed and so many users of this information are lost in their right of use. I want to say one more thing here and point out, this chart that shows how many people have asked for the right to information. And I disagree with those who have criticised that the democracy of Croatian society and the intransparentity of work is falling. No, she's getting bigger. Because exactly the public bodies are working intensively on these points, and I expected the government to be praised here. That's why I commend her, because that's what happens in practice. Everyone who wants to confirm this, go to the Ministry and you'll see that that's how public authorities do it. The lack of this law, and this is what the Proposer of this report said here, needs a few fine corrections of the law, improve some legal solutions and others, it should be said that some users who are calling for this law, natural and legal persons abuse its ability because they want to resolve some administrative, something that is being resolved by administrative procedure or in court. And there's that, and that makes sense. I would like to say that just looking at this chart when the law came in 2004 you see that there was one big stampede on this space, because there was probably not enough space and transparent public action, but very quickly the authorities responded positively and began to behave differently. I also support Mr Palaric, who here publicly from the pay phone, said how much only he answered some of these questions daily, and I am convinced that every public official who consciously does his job does the same. I personally did it while I was in office and a great deal of my time and my team was working on these issues. Why? Because citizens have the right to know and they have it stalled, they have to deal with it quickly. Of course, if you open up public authorities websites, public authorities, you will see that a series of notices that were previously requested are already available and a series of requests and a series of competitions that compete for certain projects, programmes, it is possible to solve through the web and thus reduce the need for direct search for such notifications. I'm sure of something else, and we'll be in these benches and we'll live. This number's going to fall. Why is it going to fall? Because the public bodies work more, more transparently, more powerfully, but they might strengthen some other problems, and that's where... where they can't be solved, where they don't use that right in the best way. There is this in every society, so it will be with us because it is impossible to solve everything with information only, but to act on that information, but to use it, and it is known that all rights are not possible and cannot be realised. I want to take advantage of this debate here, point out something that I don't think is pointed out enough here. First of all, according to this law, which we can say that the young law, passed only at the end of 2003, was a series of activities that took place on user education, where meetings and courses were organised, where civil society was involved in developing this idea and this transparency through the public of information. This is good, and this should continue as well as the strategy, the National Strategy for the creation of an incentive environment for the development of civil society from 2007 to 2011. And that's good, and that says that the law is implemented, that the law is governed and that it is in the institute that we have installed in our right regulation, which is that the Republic of Croatia rules the fundamental human right to use body information to follow. And one more thing. We did not refer to the abuse of these possibilities of this law as well as these notes that it is necessary in three points to do this law a little bit, which is normal. The law that works, which always works, is possible to fix. And I support that I do not now read and abuse your time, I support the motion that at one point and correct the law with these very precise definitions, as the law should also be complemented in a way that, when determining the concept of the public authority, the concept is complemented by all the users of the state budget. So it's even more transparent, and now I'm not going to read the other one. And all in all, I believe that the public is well informed, that this shows how this possibility was used in all the authorities and that is why I believe that this report is acceptable and I will support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5486	Thank you. And Arsen Bauk, the esteemed representative as the last reported individual. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5487	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Secretary of State. My colleague Maric said that the material could be read on two sides, I will start at the end because I liked the point (a) of what needs to be done, because I don't think the Central State Office could have written a worse review of the work of the current administration than he wrote, but when he wrote what needs to be changed in the law, I will read what Mr. Šetic wanted to read. Therefore, the law should be complemented by a provision to determine the situation where public interest exists for the public to know certain information. The public interest in publishing information always exists where a public authority would, by denying information, enable or breach the Constitution, international contracts and conventions which the Republic of Croatia is either a party to or would conceal the misuse of budgetary resources or other funds committed by an official or body leader. So it is unthinkable for me that civil servants, or government officials in these cases, are denying information rather than by law forcing them to give it. If information is found to be denied for these reasons, the information should be removed, and not yet recognised by law, that information should be denied for these and those reasons. As a result, I have actually concluded from this report that the one who wrote the report, who provided it, in fact, doubts that the authorities are concealing information, i.e. depriving the pardon, is depriving it to cover up the violation of the Constitution, international contracts, the misuse of budgets and other means, so that this is happening and I think that such criticism of the ruling administration could not better describe the fact that the applicant of this report is thinking about how in one part that I do not generalise the functioning of the administration. So I guess if it is so that Mr. Secretary of State will have even more phone calls than those who in this way or somehow put doubt on them, that's why they deny the information. Any responsible authority would publish such things without being told by law, without being asked to have access to this law, because of course all of this as a reason for amending the law exactly what the government should do to prevent such things, even if it gives us information. The other thing is about the appeal, so I support it because this current system looks a little bit like what the cadium is saying, the cadiya is suing you, so I think it should absolutely be supported, so as far as the appeal is concerned. I also think it's too difficult to abuse your regular procedures, so it's too difficult to say that natural and legal persons are difficult cases of abuse. I think, therefore, that one who wants to and in this way speeds up his procedure to be resolved by law, and we know that we already know that some procedures are taking too long and that they are not being resolved and that yet a little excessive expression would be abuse and I would not agree that this is about abuse, because it seems to me that abuse can be done by the state towards the individual rather than by the individual to the state bodies. Also, I would not agree that this is an abuse because it turns out that 95% of these 3 thousand 670 requests have been resolved this year, so abuse can refer to these 5% where it was rejected, and I don't think they're that common cases again, so I would disagree. I would like to appeal to the secretary of state that he, as a citizen, is trying to send some request to APN for access to information to finally happen that at least one of the APNs is getting something that would respond positively to the right to access information because it seems impossible for me to have 48 requests rejected. Otherwise, there were witnesses in the media that the state's attorney's office was interested in the work of the agency, and then I had a little too much correlation to talk about the 100 percent rejection of the request. As regards the technical skills and equipment of the website, etc. It sounds amazing to me that one request has been denied because the law does not provide for the right to access information by shooting with a digital camera. Now I think in the 21st century someone else can take a camera, so you can get valid information in graphic form on a CD, so we also got a budget left on the CD, and I don't see that there's a big problem that should be the reason why someone asked to use the machine to record something, that there should be a reason to deny the information, and I don't really think that it should, that it's a little too strict or restrictive interpretation of the law. At the end of this chart, I would disagree with Mr. Hebrang when correcting Mrs. Anticevic's allegations that this shows progress, because if this were to show progress, then I would probably see progress every year, then 2006 would be much less than in 2005, so in 2007, it would be much less than in 2006, but there happened that first year people were hoping for something and then they lost hope, because otherwise it was progress, so I guess the state and the administration are progressing every year, and every year there would be visible reductions in the number of requests, and that is not the case here. So this graph actually reminds me of the speed we're moving into the European Union, so we're, it's the declared fifth gear now somewhere else with a tendency to further slow down and as time moves away, it's getting closer and closer to the conclusion that it's not the gearbox, it's the problem with the driver and the crew. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5488	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5489	Thank you very much. Well, in order not to end up with an incorrect quote, I must correct it, an esteemed colleague. So, a colleague said that the number of citizens' requests for information in 2004 was high, and in 2005, 2006 and 2007 was low because they had lost hope in confidence. No, I don't. But during 2004, all errors of the previous government were corrected from 2000 to 2003, and therefore there is no need for further information anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5490	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Secretary of State of the Central State Administration, esteemed Antun Palaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5491	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, today we heard an interesting debate and I would say that with two opposite sides of the opposite views of the report on the application of the Law on the right to access information by calling for credit when that law was passed, who passed it and for what purpose. However, for the sake of truth, I must say that the law was passed at the end of the term of last government, but obviously without the intention of applying it because the application was only delayed for. ... We know, the law was passed in 2003. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5492	Please don't throw it out of the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5493	In 2003 and has not been applied, but has just been applied in 2004, sublegal acts have been adopted, an entire system of catalogues of information has been established, officials have been set up to exercise the right to access information, etc. The law applies, the law applies well, but since 2003 much has changed in Croatia for better information, with regard to the availability of data, with regard to the openness of all public authorities, from the Croatian Parliament, the Office of the President, the Government, the Ministries. And the best results are actually achieved in the central authorities of the state, and the worst that we're going down to a lower level. We will also make further efforts in the future, increased efforts to make better use of the law at these levels where there are no complete data, but there are mechanisms by which a party that has not received the information can initiate a misdemeanour proceedings against the responsible person. That's not what happened. I remember well because I was fortunate or unhappy to establish a system of law enforcement and control how we received complaints from citizens that a single body had not given him information. And we reacted immediately. We organized the training of officials, and even HHO gave us a lecture, their representatives at the Centre for the Education of Civil Servants. And now it works well, getting better, and the system of speakers and the openness of state officials to the media, according to the public, has led to a growing number in the formal sense to appear. They call journalists, they all have our phones, they get information off the records, on the records or records or record on the tone. And we can't record it as the application of the Law on the right to access information, but they get everything they want right away. But there's always something in every country that's not public. And every government, the responsible government has the right to hold closed sessions. That's it, that's it now and that's how it's gonna be. And what's closed can't be made available to everyone. And there are people who, referring to this law, want to achieve their journalistic careers, present themselves as perhaps victims, knowing our fondness for possible victims of power. I thank everyone for supporting this report. And I thank everyone who criticized him. This indicates that in the coming year we pay more attention to certain possible imperfections. And so we will go particularly hard towards the judicial authorities and we will not let this part of the law, I am convinced that they respect the law in their own being, which is that they give citizens information, because otherwise they would know, there would be lawsuits against courts, but in part of the report, it is obvious that they did not understand their obligation enough. Finally, I am convinced that the Croatian Parliament will support this report and I am convinced that it will reject the proposed conclusions because they are absolutely unacceptable, so I would say contradictory of what is said today. In fact, the argument is that the law is inappropriate, difficult to implement, and does not fulfil its fundamental purpose at all stand. The law is increasingly applied in Croatia, the transparency of the work of the public authorities is increasing every day and the report is growing from year to year, more and more detailed. And for 2008, there will be more, the trend of improving the report will continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5494	Thank you. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. He is the first respected representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5495	Well, it's an incorrect quote from the secretary of state that journalists are being made up of the victims of power. They are victims of government because bodies with public authority obviously do not respond to their enquiries. It's also contained in your report. They obviously initiate administrative disputes, they obviously get these administrative disputes, they get judgments in court, and it's obvious that the government doesn't meet, it doesn't even act on those judgments. So they don't have to make sacrifices. They're victims.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5496	Thank you. And the correction incorrectly states the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5497	Thank you. He would have corrected two incorrect allegations. So, Mr. Secretary of State said that the proposals for conclusions are contradictory that the law is inappropriate, etc., but I think it's just the opposite that the requirement to define the law again is of public interest, that argument that I've just given confirms that this report is contradictory in that sense. Another false assumption is that many things have been getting better since 2003. So that quote isn't exactly true. And as for what Mr. Hebrang said about the last government, we are now solving the '98 problem. from Hypo Bank and who knows how much longer...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5498	You can't correct a previous correction, it doesn't work. I'm closing the debate. We will vote on this point when the necessary conditions are met. We will begin tomorrow's session according to the consolidated agenda that you will receive tomorrow morning at the table, which is the final proposal of the Law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Austria on police cooperation. I'm closing today's debate and I wish you good night. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-26-0.u5499	Report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2007. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2007. Please engage and vote. Here you go. Thank you. I find most votes with 73 votes in favour, 8 abstentions and 40 against this conclusion. The SDP representative club proposed conclusions. In view of the previously voted conclusion, the first and second proposed conclusion of the SDP's Club of Representatives is groundless. I am putting on the vote of the third draft conclusion: It is up to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to submit to the Croatian Assembly, no later than 30 June 2008, an amendment to the Law on the Rights of Access to Information that would be introduced by the Institute of Test and Public Interest, to extend through a circle of obligors to all users of the state budget, and to more precisely regulate the procedure and jurisdiction relating to the appeal of a solution to the refusal of the application. The government opposes this third conclusion. I'm putting this third conclusion to the vote. Please turn on and let's vote. Thank you. I find this conclusion not accepted. They voted 73, 45 for two abstentions. Thank you very much. Let's move on.
