ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-15-0.u24824	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 23rd session held on 15 December 2008 the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Loan No 7598 for a project to improve the emergency medical assistance of investment planning in health between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Assembly decided without debate by majority vote, 6 votes for and 3 against the vote, 3 votes abstentioned to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of a law confirming the Treaty on Loan No 7598 HR for a project to improve the emergency medical assistance of investment planning in health between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-15-0.u24825	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There isn't. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We may, ladies and gentlemen, agree to wait 15 minutes to proceed with the work of the Parliament, if there is no quorum, I shall convene a session of the Assembly tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. for a session, or an extraordinary 8th session of the Assembly on the basis of Article 197(3). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. So we'll wait another 15 minutes and we'll decide by convening the extraordinary session of the Parliament. The final proposal of the Law confirming the loan contract No 7598 HR for the emergency medical improvement project and investment planning in healthcare between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development was an emergency procedure, first and second readings, P.Z.E. number 237. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Loan No. 7598 HR for a project to improve emergency medical assistance and investment planning in healthcare between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This law was passed unanimously with 117 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-15-0.u24828	Honorable Madam Representatives and Gentlemen Representatives. Participation in international peace operations is in line with the strategic definition of the Republic of Croatia, which places the Republic of Croatia among the responsible members of the international community who are willing to take over their part of the burden of general security. The 10-year active participation in peacekeeping operations so far has contributed to the election of the Republic of Croatia as a non-permanent member of the UN Council as well as to the achievement of NATO strategic objectives, NATO and the European Union. The Republic of Croatia currently has 133 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in 11 peacekeeping missions of the United Nations, and two headquarters officers and 93 members of the UN mission at the Golan High. Since the decision of the Croatian Parliament of 18 May 2007 approving the participation of members of the Armed Forces in five UN peacekeeping missions in Nepal, Lebanon, Sierra Leone, in... in Afghanistan, valid until 31 December 2008. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to the Croatian Parliament, in accordance with the Law on Defence and the Law on the Participation of Members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, the Police, Civil Protection, civil servants and deputies in the peace mission and other activities abroad, by which members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia are directed in 2009 and 2010, with the possibility of rotation into the peace missions in Lebanon up to four members, in Borundia up to two members and Afghanistan up to two members. And in the Central African Republic... up to three members. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] By extending the participation of members of the Armed Forces in Lebanon, the Republic of Croatia would confirm its readiness to contribute to the achievement of final peace and stability within the international community in that part of the world. We propose the continuation of the participation of members of the Armed Forces in Borundi in particular in the context of the engagement of the Republic of Croatia in the Commission for the Construction of Measures. The Republic of Croatia has been offered an offer to send an officer to the post of liaison officers in Afghanistan to support the implementation of security sector reforms. Building capacity security and trust, and cooperation between Afghan and international security forces. Considering the engagement of the Republic of Croatia in Afghanistan within.... The participation of liaison officers in the mission... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It would further benefit our forces on the ground. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The UN Security Council adopted Resolution 1778 approving the establishment of a mission in Chad to the North African Republic called... A mission composed of liaison officers with the task of selecting and training honorary humanitarian protection officers and overseeing and promoting human rights. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In October 2008 The Republic of Croatia has been sent an offer to complete the duties of staff planning officers, intelligence and planning. Funding for the cost of participation in UN peacekeeping missions is secured in the state budget at the level of the Ministry of Defence. This Decision proposes to authorise the Government of the Republic of Croatia to establish for each rotation the duration of rotation, number and organisational structure of members of the Armed Forces, as well as the obligation of the Ministry of Defence to report to the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament on the rotation carried out after each rotation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-15-0.u24829	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? Yes, on behalf of the Defence Committee, the chairman of the Committee, Mr. Boris Sprem.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-15-0.u24830	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the ministry. On the basis of Article 64a of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee discussed the proposal for this decision as a parent working body. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Committee, on the proposal for a decision, also held by the previous opinion of the President of the Republic and the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. In his opening statement, he pointed out that the Republic of Croatia currently has 133 members of the Croatian Armed Forces in 11 peacekeeping missions and that the participation of the Republic of Croatia in peacekeeping missions is one of the ways in which Croatia contributes to peace and security in the world, one of the partner objectives of the Republic of Croatia as part of the accession process for NATO. The proposer suggested continuing the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the Peace Mission in Lebanon and approving the deployment of up to 4 staff officers in the said mission, as the Security Council extended their mandate by the end of August 2009. With regard to the United Nations mission in Borundi, the proposing representative stated that the government of Borundi requested full withdrawal of force and ended the mission on 31 December 2006. However, in accordance with the Security Council resolution, the UN Integration Office in Borundi was founded and it provides support to the government of Borundia in its efforts to ensure peace. The UN Peace Operation Department has requested the continued participation of Croatian officers in the Borundi mission in the context of the engagement of the Republic of Croatia in the Peace Building Commission. The UN assistance mission in Afghanistan stressed that it is the same highly civilian character and that it contains support in the reconstruction and national reconciliation processes set out in the Bologna Agreement. The mission's mandate was extended until 23 March 2009 with the aim of strengthening co-operation with the ISAF or the promotion of civil military co-operation. The Republic of Croatia has received an offer to send an officer to the peacekeeping mission in the rank of colonel on the duty of liaison officers in the framework of the military advisory department and has so far failed to realise and is of the opinion that the participation of liaison officers in the mission in Afghanistan would be used in the Croatian force on the ground. Furthermore, the proposaler's representative stated that in October 2008 an offer was submitted in the Republic of Croatia to complete the duties of staff officers: for staff planning, for intelligence and for planning in the UN peacekeeping mission in the Central African Republic and Chad. Following the opening presentation of the proposal's representatives, the debate proposed that a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces in peacekeeping missions be taken for a period of one year, not as proposed for 2009 and 2010. This is because the rotations of members of peacekeeping missions are carried out every 6 or 12 months. In a further discussion, it was pointed out that the provision of point 3 of the decision stipulating the Ministry of Defence's obligation to report to the board in each rotation, and pointed out that the rotations started in the following year, which take 12 or 15 months, cannot end in the same year in which they started already in the following year. And at the end of the debate, the board members concluded that the Ministry of Defence was obliged to submit within 30 days a report to the Committee on the functioning of the peace missions, and within the deadlines for the rotation of the peace missions of members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia. And after the debate, the board unanimously proposed that this decision be taken by the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-15-0.u24831	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the United Nations peacekeeping missions. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with Article 227. The rules of procedure for the adoption of this law require a two-thirds majority of MPs, so 102 votes. I am voting on the proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the United Nations peacekeeping missions. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The decision was made by a majority of votes, 119 votes for, nothing against and nothing abstentions. So unanimously, not with most votes. I'm getting right.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-15-0.u24834	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament MPs, respected gentlemen representatives of the humanitarian demining union who are actively participating in negotiations and agreements with the government for almost half a year. I'm really going to be brief, given your day of work, and I'm going to single out just what I keep especially important for these laws. I certainly want to tell you that in Croatia there are still mine suspected 967 square meters and that there are still about 80 thousand different anti-walking and anti-aircraft mines according to the records. So far, more than 14 thousand and 500 mine danger codes in 12 counties and 112 Croatian municipalities and cities have been placed in Croatia. A total of 25 articles are being amended here. The law came into force in 2006, with changes and additions in 2007. In addition to the application and recommendation of the Quick.sec, which simplifies the authorisation procedure for humanitarian demining operations, the procedure for granting powers to workers, pyrotechnicians and auxiliary employees is simplified, and other powers are simplified. And what was particularly important for pyrotechnicians is the possibility of conducting a medical examination in other cities. Until now, these inspections could only be carried out in the city of Zagreb. Persons who have at least 5 years of work on technical reconnaissance, search or demining and primary school will be able to establish the authority to carry out pyrotechnics’ activities, provided that they acquire medium professional training within 4 years from the date of authorisation. Most of it is about defenders who, for these very reasons, have not been able to obtain adequate expertise. What will certainly mean a lot to people living in the area next to minefields, that all the work in the whole area will no longer be repeated, that is, to the workplaces, but only within 20 metres, by manual detection, which means that demining will go faster and much less resources will be spent. The work of foreigners is also regulated. It was regulated by the new Foreign Law, which prevented the abuse of business licenses. Unfortunately, that's what happened. The issue of insurance training is also covered by increased durations, so that pyrotechnics, pyrotechnic overseers and supervisors, as well as workers of the workshop will have an 18-month period of insurance for 12 months, helpers on demining, guides of dogs, machine managers and employees of the ministry who are authorised to carry out inspection supervision will have an insurance training of 16 months in 12 months, regulation and loss of working ability or professional incompetence is extended to the consequences of professional illness, so the right to a disability pension and other rights will also have persons who have been professionally ill. I am really asking you to accept these changes in the emergency procedure, because this will primarily contribute to the demining rate under the Ottawa Convention. We're going to have to request a postponement, because we're definitely not going to be able to be demined next year. And these laws will allow demining to go faster, that people who work on these jobs are very hard and sensitive jobs have the right to have so far not primarily professional illnesses. Thank you for your concentration and attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-15-0.u24835	Thank you very much. There is one proposal from the HDZ Representatives' Club to continue, this debate first and finalises. Secondly, to vote on all other laws except to stay at the end of the Law on Golf Courses and Agricultural Land, when we will decide at the end. So let's finish what we can finish. That's me thinking a rational proposal and then there's only these two laws left that we can negotiate or see what can be done at the end of what can be done. In any case, I think we need to take the time to do what is not disputed, where there are no reasons to transfer it to an extraordinary session, we can end up during this session and eventually decide on these two laws that have caused so much controversy here and disagreement. So we would continue with: - The final proposal of the Law on humanitarian demining and the rights of pension insurance employees in demining operations and then we would vote on all other laws, except for these two that we will leave at the end. If we agree. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take a word on these two laws that are on the agenda? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Ante Kotromanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-15-0.u24836	Mr. President of the Parliament, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, fellow MPs. Today we have on the agenda the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on humanitarian demining and the Final Proposal for the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Special Rights from the Pension Insurance of Employees in Mine Action. These are two very important laws for those who deal with humanitarian demining, and you know well how the Deputy Prime Minister led us to have more than 900 square kilometers in Croatia of mine suspected and contaminated area and that this topic is very important and important for all of us and all people living in the Republic of Croatia. I will especially emphasise the importance of demining when it comes to tourism. I remind you of that unpleasant fact and what happened on Visa when a Dutch tourist lost his leg just because at the right moment we didn't recognize where the minefield was and we didn't react the right way. This Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on humanitarian demining has long been prepared and it certainly solves certain things in a good way and of course I will support it, but it offers us some ambiguities. Before I start talking about the bill, I have to refer to the 2009 State Budget proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-15-0.u24837	You can't hear Mr. Speaker from the pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-15-0.u24838	Before I start talking about the bill's proposals, I need to refer to the 2009 State budget proposal and to the funds approved for humanitarian demining. If always the appropriations are too small, they are even slightly reduced compared to last year. The approved funds are 89 million kuna 666 thousand. That only demining is planned is about 200 million kuna, while about 45 million kuna is foreseen for management and administration. The proposal for a state budget shows that all these past years the funds have mostly increased by this item of governance and administration. That Deputy Prime Minister saw well. We have only increased the governance and administration within these eight years, so now we issue about 45 million kuna for those people who are on the leading duties and who work within the demining system itself. I think it's one too many numbers and too much money, and there's got to be some rationalization and more demining resources. Today's CROMAC has become an organization with a large management structure that spends a third of the funds for its own needs. One of the future tasks should be designed and created by a new CROMAC structure which will become an operational fast body and should enable and prevent the planning and demining of the Republic of Croatia. Speaking of the Croatian Mine Action Centre, I must also comment on the government's decision to attach or join the Mungos CROMAC. For a long time, we didn't know what to do with Mungos who'd only been making us big losses for years. You're probably all headed up with the Mungos problems and the ways they've been communicating with the Parliament and with all of us these past years. A lot of incompetent administrations went through that unfortunate Mungos without being able to stabilize the company. If this decision to attach is good, we'll see about that. We'll know soon enough. The government will decide on this model, although it seems to me that it is not the happiest solution. Why do I think that? Watch out for CROMAC to open a public tender, which is attended by private companies and Mungos. CROMAC is the owner of the Mungos, so Mungos is a legal person of CROMAC, and that's consistent with the Public Procurement Act and it doesn't make sense that CROMAC with its own company goes to a public tender that he himself has called. We'll probably have problems here, and that's why I'm going to ask the Deputy Prime Minister and Mr. Buconjic to inform me, and to take a closer look at this problem to see what we can do in this context. How will CROMAC monitor its own company through its supervisors? And that's the same big problem, is it going to have the same criteria for private companies and for a company owned by it? We must certainly resolve this before we begin to function in such a way. That's why I think it's pretty clumsy. Secondly, whether Mungos will finance himself or be financed from the CROMAC budget. In the 2009 State budget itself, you saw how much money there is. If the Mungose will finance from CROMAC, I don't think the demining will leave much of the funds in this current year. Our goal was simply to raise some questions important for humanitarian demining with the hope of taking care of it. As regards these two draft laws, one sentence in the final draft of the Law in amendments and additions to the Law on Special Rights in Pension Insurance of Employees in Mine Action. The SDP club supports this bill, we appreciate that it is a good thing that pyrotechnics are given pension rights and we support it. I think we have a full consensus for that, and that's one good thing. These people have suffered a lot. These people have worked under a dozen and more years in demining. They were formerly in the army and may there be one way to enable what is proposed by amendments and additions to the law. But in this second bill of law that speaks of amendments and additions to the Law on humanitarian demining in the property of the club I have a few things to say. First, I would like to comment on Article 2. It says: "The government's obligation was to build a national mine action programme by 6 months last year." We don't have it until today. I have submitted an amendment to that article and I think maybe you should consider seeing and adopting it. Today, there is no National Mine Action Programme as the most important planning document that long-term determines the direction of action to address the mine problem. In this article, I believe that time should be clearly determined, i.e. the time limit of execution and the time limit for drawing up this proposal. Does anyone today have any idea how long we will be able to demining Croatia and during what period? I think those are very difficult answers. We had a national programme to finish demining by 2010 as you know it didn't happen and this is an important and important problem for us. And that is why we should sit down as soon as possible, make deadlines, arrange for people who will make national programmes, bring it here to the Parliament, support it all together, secure the funds and say once and for all, and finally solve the problem of demining in Croatia. Article 6 discusses how to speed up the demining system, and I think, I appreciate that we need to speed up the demining system, which is what we all want and aim at. I've had conversations with CROMAC employees these days, with several private companies asking for a conversation. Private companies support this proposal because, of course, it goes hand in hand and allows them to work quickly on the ground. A few CROMAC people were skeptical of this article because they think we're doing too much for private companies and they, here's what I'm going to do. They suggest increasing the effect of the demining machine by hand at a thousand metres, and thus we will go as far and as best as possible over that area that the pyrotechnicians have crossed. They fear that control will be affected by too little soil when that demining machine passes and when they say they're done. Also, reading the proposal to amend and supplement the law has several articles that I must comment on and which I think must be treated differently or changed in one way. Article 10 states: "The affairs of humanitarian demining are not considered search and demining operations in mined underwater areas.". It's very unclear to me, since I was a pyrotechnician myself, I worked for a year and a half at the company, I was doing underwater demining as I was a diver myself. I think that should be defined, private companies will not know whether it is a space relating to the sea, rivers, lakes or a water blue field which, in the case of a river being poured out, I think that should be defined in Article 10, too, clearly regulate what is meant. Also, in Article 36, we are talking about granting powers to the head of the employment of pyrotechnicians and assistant staff, so the ministry submits, that's fine. What I would suggest is that we have a lot of people, we have an officer, we have an inspector from the MUP who are in private companies today. They may, some may already be building leaders. I don't think it's necessary for them to go to pyrotechnics class for a year or work at a company for a year if they have a high-end professional training. The explicite here is said to have to spend a year in one of the pyrotechnics' places in order to eventually become the head of the construction site. And we have very nice guys, I know a few of them from the Croatian Army who have high professional equipment, who were commanders of the water, the company, who were working on demining, and I think maybe they should act in this context and allow them to become construction leaders without this. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following I assure you this is a very important topic and a very important topic. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Unfortunately, next year, and perhaps one to five people in Croatia will die on demining operations, making pyrotechnics a civilian and we are a little bit unserious. I'm telling you it's a very important topic. ... In an article 35 that speaks, which allows foreign citizens to work on demining operations, of course I do not oppose and I think that other people should, especially when we have donations to deal with humanitarian demining business but mine exists in fear and I also know these people so as not to use those privileges that the law allows them to eventually not be tempted to fire our pyrotechnicians. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We pyrotechnicians have about 500 to 600 in the Republic of Croatia and of course we have a fight coming next year for every job and it would be very ugly to squeeze out our pyrotechnics people who will come from other countries, of course I say I don't mind. Our pyrotechnicians work for approximately 12,000 kuna, foreign pyrotechnics, for example from Bosnia and Herzegovina for 4-5 thousand kuna. I think you should, I've made an amendment and I'd like you to consider it. Anyway, we need to protect our pyrotechnics. Also, in Article 21, which says, "Article 63 paragraphs 2 and 3 deletes the item", I am now about to convince it. So, before an inspector from the MUP, he must have the authority of a pyrotechnician to be an inspector in humanitarian demining business. And now the MUP suggests that inspectors don't have the authority of pyrotechnics. I don't think that's good. Why? Because simply when they come to the field, when they come to one of the construction heads, when they come to the space that is mined, they have to know the demining system, mainly because these inspectors have the right to take away the authority of the pyrotechnist and the builder because I don't think they're going to be competent and that they won't be able to seriously discuss demining business. I ask you to return this before the item because it seems to me that we can educate several staff, several inspectors of the MUP who could well and quality follow this demining system and which I say is particularly important to us and is very important to us. Here, I thought maybe even a little longer... But I wouldn't do it anymore. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In any case, in the end, I would ask Madam Deputy Prime Minister to consider these few things that seem to me that can improve the demining system and that through the amendments that I have submitted you to look at them and to see about doing something for now that would be very useful, effective, to do something that would speed up the demining system, which would allow for a better and better quality life for our pyrotechnicians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-15-0.u24839	Thank you very much. Does Mrs. Vice President want to conclude? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-15-0.u24840	Thank you very much. Mr. President. I am glad that the strongest opposition party also supports these draft laws. It is indeed the laws that have long been negotiated, and the truth is what MP Kotromanovic says is acceptable to both employers and trade unions. We are confident that after the application of this law, demining will go faster. I'd just like to tell you about the amendment you suggested. We can accept the first and other amendments, the third cannot because in the event of the employment of foreign employers in demining operations, the employer must not fire the citizen of the Republic of Croatia with the powers of pyrotechnicians who are working and medically capable. We cannot accept this not because we do not want to protect our citizens but because he can get fired from that place and because of some other failures in the performance of a job that can endanger his life or the lives of his colleagues, therefore because of inaccuracy but the intentions are completely clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-15-0.u24841	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate on P.Z.E. No. 234 and P.Z. 235. We'll decide when the conditions are met. Final proposals of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on humanitarian mine action. It was an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. number 234 The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee, MP Emil Tomljanovic and MP Ante Kotromanovic. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to show up on the amendments. Mr. Ivica Buconjic, State Secretary. First Legislative Committee on Article 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-15-0.u24843	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-15-0.u24844	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 2. Mr. Representative Ante Kotromanović Amendment 1 to Article 2?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-15-0.u24845	Amendment 1 is accepted as recasted in a way that is referred to in paragraph 3. the fourth paragraph is added: "The national anti-mining action programme and the plan will be drawn up within 6 months of the date of entry into force of this law".
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-15-0.u24846	Okay. Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-15-0.u24847	Thank you. Accepted in this formulation by the Secretary of State. Amendment 2 to Article 10?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-15-0.u24848	Amendment 2 is adopted in a way that reads beyond paragraph 2. adds paragraph 3 which reads: " humanitarian demining operations are not considered search and demining operations at sea, rivers, lakes and other underwater areas".
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-15-0.u24849	Mr. Ante Kotromanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-15-0.u24850	I'll take it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-15-0.u24851	It was accepted in the State Secretary's formulation. Amendment 3 to Article 15?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-15-0.u24852	Amendment 3 is not accepted because employers cannot be subject to admission and dismissal of workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-15-0.u24853	Mr. Ante Kotromanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-15-0.u24854	I'll withdraw the amendment. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-15-0.u24855	Thank you. This amendment has been withdrawn. And Amendment 4 to Article 21?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-15-0.u24856	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-15-0.u24857	This amendment becomes an integral part of the proposal. Next, the amendment to article 6 of Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-15-0.u24858	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-15-0.u24859	It becomes an integral part of the bill. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Support for Education. Amendments and additions to the Law on humanitarian demining. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This law was adopted by a majority of 116 votes in favour and one abstention. Voice along with accepted amendments. Here there is a proposal for a decision to appoint a member of the Croatian Radio Television Programme Council for the rest of the term of office, according to a member of the Croatian Radio Television Programme Council, Zvonko Bilas. Does the board president want to explain? I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting this proposal to a vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? This appointment was accepted by most votes. 111 for and abstentions 12. Thank you very much.
