ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18667	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. You have before you the proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention with Contact with Children with the Final Proposal of the Law, and I must say that this is actually an extension of the Convention of the Law of the Child which is the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, and it is very important that, given that the Republic of Croatia has become a member of the Council of Europe on 6 November 1996, it has actually agreed to promote the objectives of that international organisation and to respect its principles, and thus to promote the rights of the child. The Convention on Contact with Children, drawn up on 15 May 2003, has been signed by 16 countries of the Council of Europe, and 5 countries have ratified it and, in fact, this Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Contact with Children is foreseen under the plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the acquis of the EU under our national EU accession plan for 2008. As I said to the Convention on Contact with Children, it actually complements and discusses the way children's rights established by the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child and is in fact the aim of this Convention to recognise children's rights to encounters and association, i.e. contact with parents with whom they do not live or contact close relatives with whom they do not actually live. The Convention describes in detail the conduct of the Central Authority of the State which will actually regulate the situation under the Convention and is very attached to the Hague Convention on Civil Law aspects of international child abduction. As is known, Croatia has also recognised and ratified the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Hague Convention on the Civil and Legal aspects of international child abduction and, in fact, this Convention will take place when parents are divorced or when children separated from their family will, in fact, edit children's rights and their status. It is very important here to stress that in fact, in this Convention children's rights are spread in such a way that in certain matters the child has the right to make known, in fact he has the right to express his position which we consider to be a great incentive to strengthen the rights of children that you yourselves are witnessing that when you read both the daily press or whatever is happening in the world and in our country that often children are the victim of the divorce of parents, that often it happens that the child is kidnapped and driven to another country without the knowledge of one of the parents. Therefore, we believe that this proposal to confirm the Convention on Contact with Children will indeed be strengthened and more of an emphasis will actually be placed on children's rights. In view of the fact that the Ministry of Health and Social Care is already doing the tasks of the Central Authority under the Hague Convention on the Civil and Legal aspects of international child abduction, this law also proposed this same ministry for the functions of the central body under this Convention, with the provision of additional funds for the work of the Central Authority, which is listed here in the bill of law, which is that 650,000 kuna will be provided for next year, and later on about 300000 kuna, which is confirmed by the PFU. So, it's a form from the Ministry of Finance. I hope that you will accept this Convention and that it will be the same agreement as on committees, so unanimously, because it is practically deepening children's rights, which is in our best interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18668	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Chairman of the Health and Social Care Committee, Mr. Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18669	Dear Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. As a parent body, the Health Committee discussed the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Contact with Children with the Final Proposal for a Law. In its opening statement, the Proposer's representative pointed out that the Republic of Croatia, as a member of the Council of Europe, is obliged to promote and accept the promotion of the objectives of the international organisation, and among them one of the key is the right of the child and the Republic of Croatia to coordinate its legislative solutions with the United Nations Convention on the rights of the child and other international documents arising from it or based on it. The Convention on Contact with Children is such a document that regulates the way a child's right to contact parents with whom he does not live and with other people with whom he is in a close or family relationship. In the debate, the Committee supported the adoption of this law and the confirmation of a convention whose provisions give primary importance to the protection of the best interests of the child. The rights of the child established by the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child by applying this Convention shall be complemented, extended and the way in which they are implemented shall be discussed. It is particularly important to point out in the discussion which is more specifically arranged to establish a cross-border child contact with parents with whom he does not otherwise live. It is also important, in the opinion of the board members, to strengthen the position of the child in the procedures concerned and to establish the right for the child to express personal attitudes and wishes in connection with the contact process. Following a broad discussion, the Committee unanimously supported the adoption and proposed to the Assembly the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Contact with Children in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18670	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HSS Club, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18671	Dear Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. The Croatian Peasant Party Club will support the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Contact with Children. We often hear that our children are our greatest wealth, but on the other hand, children in today’s society are at great risk from the environment that should provide them with normal and healthy growth. A large number of children and minors around the world are daily exposed to some form of abuse, which negatively reflects their continued life. It was only in the second half of the 20th century that the World Community formally decided on the common, uniform and harmonised rights of the child and that violence of any kind was an unacceptable violation of these rights. The Convention on Contact with Children entered into force on 1 September 2005, and it complements and discusses the way in which children's rights are exercised by the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. The aim of the Convention is to recognise the right of children to meet and socialise, i.e. contact with certain persons and to facilitate the exercise of those rights. The Convention also regulates more precisely the area of establishing cross-border contacts with a parent who otherwise does not live with or with persons with whom the child is in a close family relationship which, except through meetings and association, can also be established by telephone, by letter, e-mail, by means of indirect means, by exchange of information via another person or by other means. Furthermore, more specifically, it prescribes the conduct of the central body than is regulated by the Hague Convention on the Civil-Legal aspects of international child abduction, as well as a stronger position of the child as an entity in the procedures concerned, so that the child is entitled to express views and wishes, to receive notification of the procedure, and to advice in connection with the procedure. In particular, issues of insurance and security measures taken in connection with contact shall be regulated in order to protect the achievement of this established right of the child and to ensure the return of the child to a place where he or she normally lives after a period of specific contact. We at the HSS Club have discussed this convention with two aspects, and this is about contact with parents and contacts that are made online, and often can be fatal to children. Recently, you all remember, Croatia rocked the scandal of a former ambassador whose girls live in France, which he did not want to return after visiting his mother, but hid them and did not want to give information about their residence to his former wife or to the police. The whole case against which the whole of Croatia was horrified has ended so that the girls are visibly traumatized back to their mothers, and the former ambassador married his lawyer just as if nothing had happened. This is just one example that shows that communication is particularly difficult in divorced parents. A third of all divorces are marked by a highly pronounced conflict. In 8 to 10% of parents, conflict, or a kind of communication wall, exists after divorce. After divorce in 4% of cases, children grow up in uninvolved parenting, which means that communication among divorced parents is weak. Couples with small children, families with more children were more prone to conflicts either to legal problems, or to parenting. A divorce with a lot of conflicts falls the hardest for preschool children. Parents should also pay attention to the contacts that their children make on the Internet. Of children who regularly use the Internet 10 to 17 years of age, each 5 children were exposed to inappropriate sexual offers. Most children between 10 and 13 years of age use a computer outside their home and receive sexual messages and talk to each other. It is assumed that out of the total number of these cases, only 10% are reported to the police. Unfortunately, there are many children who come out of intimate conversations with a stranger on the Internet with a sense of guilt and trauma from which they will feel the consequences of years. One of the studies conducted in Croatia confirmed world statistics that every 4th girl and 6th boy experience some form of sexual abuse. Negative content is the most exposed children of preteen and teen age from 10 to 13 because they are not yet able to define themselves or can easily distinguish between normal and unusual attitudes of other adults towards them. Parents or guardians have the highest responsibility in raising and educating the child, and the best interests of the child must be their primary concern. Individual measures against paedophilia have not yielded the desired results, but by including a wider international community from local to highest levels by adapting the law, by developing cyber police, by spreading the right social and cultural values to both the Internet and educating parents and children, it is possible to create an environment in which children will be provided with normal and healthy growth. Informing, education and finding the right access to children may still be the best way to protect them. And what I want to point out in the end on behalf of the HSS Club and tell each child that they need family activities and connections with important adults. Children need more than well-intentioned parents. They need parents who are emotionally available. It is parents who help children to create meaningful lives, emotions, and behaviors, and such life lessons are adopted when children and parents are emotionally connected. Since this convention is one of the instruments for creating that goal, the HSS Club will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18672	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Madam Representative Jeljana Kalash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18673	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, respected colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will support the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Contact with Children, with the Final Proposal for the Law. But today I want to start my presentation with one maximum I found preparing for this item of the agenda, which is quoted as saying: "A child should not be asked to face a responsibility that is not ready and should be burdened with decisions for which it is not grown up." However, on behalf of the HDZ Club, I would like to say that by passing this law, the child has the right to his position. Children are born with fundamental freedoms and rights that belong to all human beings, although physical and psychological immatureness imposes the need to highlight the child's special rights to protection that stems from this very fact. The Republic of Croatia also ratified the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Convention on the Civil Law aspects of international child abduction. The Convention on the Rights of the Child as an International Document was adopted at the UN General Assembly in 1989 and contains universal standards that the State Party to the Convention must guarantee each child. This is the first document in which a child is accessed as a rights entity, not just a person who needs special protection. 30 years ago, in 1959, the Declaration on the Rights of a Child with Moral Strength was also adopted, but yet the Convention on the Rights of the Child is a legal act that has the power of law and includes, among other things, the right to monitor the application in countries that have accepted it and ratified it. The convention is all-inclusive and the only one that provides both civil and political, both economic and social, and cultural rights of the child. However, it is important to highlight the four principles on which all these rights are based, which are the principle of non-discrimination, the right to life and development, and then to make decisions and implement procedures affecting the child must be the child's best interests, and also to enable children to participate actively in the resolution of all issues affecting their lives and allow them the freedom to express their opinions. The Convention contains 54 articles, and given the types of rights contained, they may be divided into the right of survival relating of course to living standards, development rights, protection rights and rights of participation. I think the most important thing in this House today is to say that none of us here are MPs who, by voting, will declare ourselves on this bill, nor any of the members of the state institutions, nor of course anyone whose work is part of the work aimed at protecting children's rights, are allowed to view the Convention on Contact with Children exclusively as a catalogue of child rights. It's not a catalog. It is a recognition of the right of children to meet and socialize, i.e. contact with certain persons, and to facilitate the exercise of these rights. In any case, the role of parents is not diminished, and it is their duty to decide what is the child’s best interest. I agree with the claim made by MP Petyr, who says that children need not only well-intentioned parents, they are not enough. Governments of individual signatories of the convention are obliged to provide parents with support so that they can provide care for their children. With the full reform of legislation, the Republic of Croatia is harmonising its legal solutions with the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and with international documents arising from it or based on it. One of these documents is also mentioned in the Hague Convention on the Civil Law aspects of the international abduction of children and in cases of cross-border contact with a parent with whom the child does not live. As regards the Convention on the Civil Law aspects of international child abduction, it is important to further highlight its main objectives, which is to ensure that the more urgent return of children is illegally taken or detained in a State Party and that the right to care and to see with respect to a child under the law of one Contracting State in another State is guaranteed by the signatories of this Convention. A significant addition to the Hague Convention represents this 2005 Convention with contacts with children. Since the Republic of Croatia became a member of the Council of Europe in 96, it has agreed to promote the objectives of the international organisation and to respect its principles and thus promote the rights of the child. The Convention on contacts with children we are discussing today was drawn up in Strasbourg in 2003, and signed by 16 Member States of the Council of Europe, namely Albania, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Greece, Italy, Malta, Poland, Portugal, Romania, San Marino, Turkey and Ukraine, and five countries subsequently ratified, namely: Albania, the Czech Republic, Romania, San Marino and Ukraine. The Convention entered into force on 1 September 2005, and it complements and further discusses how children's rights are exercised by the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. Today we also heard some individual cases, recent media very exposed cases, which were clearly mentioned by the distinguished representative Petyr. I think the conclusion of the public, and I believe that your representatives are the same, so for the end of my presentation, I can only say once more, that the HDZ Club will definitely support this Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Contact with Children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18674	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Ms. Brankica Crlenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18675	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The SDP representative club will support the adoption of the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Contact with Children, with the Final Proposal for a Law. The aim of the Convention is to recognise the right of children to meet and socialise, i.e. contact with certain persons and to facilitate the exercise of those rights. The Convention also regulates more precisely the area of establishing cross-border contacts with a parent who otherwise does not live with or with persons with whom the child is in a close family relationship which, except through meetings and association, can also be established by telephone, by letter, by exchange of information through another person, etc. The divorce of parents to children is a stressful experience most often accompanied by feelings of sadness, fear, uncertainty, anxiety, confusion, guilt, taking responsibility for the conflict of parents, the appearance of a conflict of loyalty. The divorce is, apart from the parents with whom the child will not live, related to a series of changes in the life of a child who makes a request for adjustment in front of a child. The divorce is often preceded by a stressful and emotionally painful experience of parental conflict, often accompanied by the involvement of others, a child of close adults, grandparents, family friends, which may further cause and deepen the feeling of uncertainty as a result of their emotional involvement in the divorce situation loses support and the support of people in whom it was most frequently found in other life circumstances. Facing and coping with a divorce can make it difficult for children to feel emotionally overwhelmed by their parents to have their own difficult and painful divorce, which puts children and their emotional needs in a completely different way in addition to all those mentioned in some families. Often in practice, we face manipulation of the child’s right to meet and associate with a parent he does not live with. In doing so, manipulation involves making it difficult or disabling the quality of the exercise of this right under various unfounded excuses and influences by the parents with whom the child is being exposed and who are being imposed on him. The parent’s behaviour, if there is no timely intervention of experts, results in the behaviour of a child manifested in the unsatisfactory and refusal to meet with a parent where the reasons for such reactions do not lie in the directly experienced experience of an unquality relationship with a parent, but are due to the exposure to negative messages and qualifications of parents with whom the child lives on a parent he does not live. In practice, we also encounter manipulation by parents with whom the child does not live, and what time specified for dating and association with the child is used to send negative messages about another parent, commenting in the negative context of the child’s educational requirements, wants to collect as much information as possible about the movement and way of life of the former partner with negative comments, which puts the child in a particularly unfavourable and demanding position and abuse of his right to meet the child. The manipulation of children also takes place through the challenge of the parent's right to go with the child to visit relatives, grandparents, the right to travel with a child outside the place of residence is disputed. It contests or prohibits the right to associate with new parents that children do not live with or even continue their education in a new, desired school. On the basis of such parent behaviour, the most frequently experienced emotional injury due to unquality marital relationship and its disappointing ending, unfinished partner relationship of parents, unresolved property-legislative relations, disagreements over certain parenting content resulting in what is used as a blackmail facility, subject to conditionality which is professionally unacceptable, and for a child extremely harmful. Meetings and association of a child with a parent with whom he does not live are extremely important for maintaining the emotional stability of a child and a quality relationship that can be achieved through encounters and association with a parent who is no longer present daily in the child’s life is a vital aspect of child’s psychophysical development. It is especially important to work to raise awareness of the responsibility of parents in meeting this child’s need, as well as parental influence and responsibility in the child’s psychophysical development process, which, unfortunately, parents rarely forget. With regard to difficulties related to the exercise of the right to meet and associate a child with a parent he does not live with, it is certainly the long-term nature of the court procedure, the adoption of a temporary measure in the divorce procedure in cases where it is clear that there is no agreement between parents and children on meetings and association. Mild or no sanctions against parents in criminal proceedings in order to prevent and non-execution of measures to protect a child or a minor, the need to be included in professional treatment with repressive measures. Unfortunately, we do not have enough counselling facilities and schools for parents to direct their parents for professional help. Lack of place and experts conducting family therapy, psychotherapy or psychiatric treatment, and where such forms of assistance exist, limited opportunities for parenting to be referred to marriage therapy due to overworking of institutions that provide such a form of assistance and help is not timely and effective. It is also extremely important to improve the integration and co-operation of all institutions involved in child protection. It is necessary to develop the cooperation of social care centres with family centres that are recognised in some areas as a place where families, parents and children can be directed for individual advisory assistance, getting professional help in achieving quality parenting and overcoming crisis family situations. In order to achieve a higher level of child protection in divorce procedures and parental care decisions, the need for more effective judicial procedures with additional sensitisation and education of judges in the field of psychosocial aspects of divorce and the specificities of psychophysical development of the child, as well as their reactions in the particularly stressful situation of divorce of parents, should be pointed out. The Convention lays down in more detail the conduct of the central body than it is governed by the Hague Convention on the Civil and Legal aspects of the International Child Kidnapping, and strengthens the position of the child as an entity in the procedures concerned, and establishes the right to express views and wishes to receive information on the procedure and on advice in connection with the procedure. In particular, issues of insurance and security measures taken in connection with contact shall be regulated in order to protect the achievement of this established right of the child and to ensure the return of the child to a place where he or she normally lives after a period of specific contact. The adoption of the Convention is certainly a step forward and the SDP club supports it sincerely, hoping that the state of children's rights and the real interests of children will be significantly improved by the adoption of this Convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18676	Thank you. Before we move to an individual debate, I am informing especially clubs that the vote will begin today at 13.00 hours, so at one o'clock. Then let's try to get the MPs together, and here's how we end this week by successfully voting the crossed agenda points. We're moving on to an individual debate. She is the first female representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18677	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Of course I support the adoption of this Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Contact with Children with the Final Proposal of the Law. However, if we have read more carefully every single provision of this convention that we will now hope to law, you will see that there is little new that is not in our legislation, not since yesterday, but almost even for decades. We must be aware that we are a country that is among the first in Europe with settled status issues. It was a few years ago, I think, in 2002, an international conference down in Dubrovnik, but that's usually a bit of a talk. Therefore, our legislation regarding not only the status and relationship of parents and children, but the relationship between marriage mates and administrative partners, not only the things being resolved before the court, but the question of the right of name. We need to know that we are the first country in Europe, which, among the first countries in Europe, has made it possible for a woman to choose the last name she wants or stay with her last name. Also to have another spouse take her last name. So we have little debate on these issues that we can really be proud of and an example of many countries in Europe, but, of course, with the case law, that is, how else do I get back to the Convention on Contact with Children, or on the proposal of this law, all of this is done in practice, we have great, huge difficulties. Back in the few years, it was not a rare case when a child’s child’s final decision was made to confide in a mate, most often when it was entrusted to a woman, that the child’s ex - mate would prevent such an execution from climbing up to the sky, to a tall building, and if it were to come to an end, he would throw himself with a child. There were no consequences of such a person. That was years ago. I hope there are no more examples like this. Every time, then, after a painful trial, the hard work would have been known, it was not a rare case of preventing a child from being traumatized in such a way. Instead of taking away parental rights immediately from such a person, but not from the duty of abstention. Thus, these bizarre and terrible examples testify to how much judicial authority, including administrative bodies, must be determined to prevent any abuse and all in the best interests of the child. What particularly grieves, that first... They can also contact children that they are mandatory contacts with grandparents. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We know how powerful emotional relationships are, but it is simply unacceptable that the government has forced, from the promised Alimentary Fund, created an alimony fund of grandparents, because... it has declared itself powerless that simply irresponsible parents are forced, and when they can, when they are healthy, when their property is even challenged, because it is publicly shown, boasting and mocking the state, it just seems like the state has capitulated there, simply forcing them to, force them to pay mandatory restraint for their children. So, we're obviously the government was going on a low-resistance line, and then on those miserable pensions are now coming to Grandma and Grandpa's. Grandmas and grandfathers, whom such parents, or children who do not want to support their children, need to be supported because their support is not enough for them to live. And by law, they're required. That's why I'm plagiarizing, here's the secretary of state, that this strange and strange provision that has entered our family law so undetected, as soon as possible in the name of social justice and the responsibilities of those who are first invited to take care of their underage children, and even of the adult if they are sick and of their old and powerless parents. Because this is simply how these old people can't understand and think it's some kind of confusion, because it's never existed in our legal system before. So, there's something urgent to do. It is good here that special attention, and that is also what we have in our law well solved, but obviously this convention warns of this, these contacts, these are those abuses when it comes to hanging out with other parents and he doesn't return the child. We here in this convention see that there are mandatory fines for such a parent. But we in our law have better things to do. Our law states that a parent who prevents contact with whom a child is entrusted and prevents contact with another parent will even be deprived of parental rights, or that the child will be taken away from him and surrender to another parent, which is perfectly normal. But here in this convention, we don't have what we also have better decided in our law, that in any case we won't allow contact with another parent because it's not just a person who's insecure, but because it can have a disastrous effect on a child, because it's not just given up on some vagrant life, but it has such vices that it doesn't stop those vices in front of its own child at all. That's not what this convention predicts, and we have it well in law solved. According to this Convention, something that we may not have had so well solved so far points to citizens who share children with our citizens, or citizens, or vice versa, and is now being asked the question of these contacts through border movements. That's never been questionable with us. That's why I don't think there's anyone here who's going to doubt that this kind of bill is to be confirmed, to be passed, to confirm the convention, to contact the children, but to note that this convention certainly shouldn't be an alibi for us to reduce those rights, to develop certain rights that a child has in our law long since been studied, rather than simply to strengthen this legislation and to apply such standards. Here's an example. For the first time, do we see here in the convention that the child has the right to say, express his position, that it must be timely informed, that it must be consulted. And for 35 years now, a 10 - year - old child has the right to express his parent’s attitude. And courts often consulted younger children about other circumstances. But after 10 years, when a child turned 10 years old, his attitude was absolutely acceptable to the bodies who decided on it whether they were once welfare centres or later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18678	Thank you. We have one, first one, one replica. Mr. Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18679	Thank you. There's no doubt normally we'll all support this, but what my colleague Ingrid said, I think she's asking us all one principle question. What about the laws that don't apply? Or what is the point of passing laws if society does not have the strength to implement them in practice and here it is a sensitive subject, above all, that I think irresponsible parents are forced to pay mandatory support for their children after divorce. If the community is not strong enough, strong enough, effective enough to force such irresponsible parents to meet their obligation, then it is really hard to solve and much harder problems that are being put before us. This question is usually a sensitive issue because of the young population, which is about underage people, and what we call demographic policy is, because in a broader sense, this must also apply to that. If we don't ensure a decent life for these young people, it seems to me that we're on our way to making social problems out of them, to introduce them into a world in which they certainly wouldn't want to be introduced, and that's a world of broke, insufficient means to live, and then such a young person is easily preyed upon by all who go outside the law. If the laws do not apply and do not ensure what is guaranteed with them, those persons are inclined to go beyond the scope of their activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18680	Thank you. Answer by Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18681	Well, here's my colleague Jurjevic, obviously, has seen this in particular from my debate, this part that really doesn't understand and well asks the question of how the state needs to be, can be reconciled with being powerless, to collect the necessary support from the irresponsible parent, the parent who manifests his appearances, the vehicles, the jeeps with which he comes to such discussions where there is nothing and where the courts are unable to determine restraint because he has nothing. And how will we deal with the mob, organized crime when we can't deal with irresponsible parents? The state can't stop there. He must seek extraordinary measures against such persons. These are dangerous social behaviors. Not only does he manifest such force and deny the law but he mocks the state. And what does the state do then? Instead of that promised alimony fund, she founded a fund of grandparents. I'm telling you, it's not rare for grandmothers and grandfathers of thousands of kuna pensions to be cut off every month to support underage children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18682	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Zeljana Kalash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18683	Thank you, Mr. President. I have the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament in front of me. I think he was also violated by honourable representative Jurjevic and distinguished representative Anticevic-Marinovic. This is an article 210 which says, "The speaker can only talk about the subject under which the agenda is being discussed." I have here a consolidated agenda and I think that I have received the same material as the distinguished representatives who are discussing some other topics and here it is debated to confirm the Convention on Contact with Children and the topics they are discussing actually there is nothing in this law. ... Thank you very much. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18684	The chairman shall determine or judge what is part of the agenda, so that if it is removed, the reminders. I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been broken here because, Mrs. Representative and Mr. Representative have remained in the context of the topic of protection in fact by confirming the Convention on Contact with Children and we can speak either one way or another but the subject is such that it can't be understood too closely and I don't think there's any reason why you should lift this table either. In any case, of course, it's good to stick to the subject as accurately as possible, but it's impossible to take it so closely. We also have a correction to the incorrect assumption. Mrs. Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18685	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I am correcting Mrs. Anticevic's incorrect quote, which states that the state is going through a line of less resistance. On the contrary, Madam MPs, because the introduction of an alimony fund on one side of the state wants to force and intends to force the debtor to legally support his underage child. On the other side of the foster family institute, if this is about the family of grandparents and on the third side, we have the introduction of a personal identification number. Also another new contribution to forcing legal abstention when it comes to a parent with whom a child does not live to meet its obligations with regard to a young child. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18686	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative's turn... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. [[Employment: Injury of the Rules of Procedure.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18687	The Member of the Commission has violated the provision of Article 209 by correcting the incorrect allegations and stating here that the state has formed an alimony fund. I don't know where it formed him. Maybe it was you who dreamed of Hebrang. .../Conversation disabled, then reactivated./... that's common knowledge. And the fact that.../The speaker is off, and then it's back on. I'm talking about irresponsible parents, and you'd put him in a foster home. What are you talking about? .../speak off, then re-enabled./... alone with herself, and didn't correct anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18688	This is a classic example of how criteria do not apply to everyone, so you will accept when a person is warned about not holding a daily or not holding a Rules of Procedure. But then you don't follow the Rules of Procedure yourself, and then it goes on forever. I beg you, let the President intervene when it comes to the breach of the Rules of Procedure and don't answer any questions. Many times we've given the possibility of correcting an incorrect allegation which is not the correcting of an incorrect allegation. But then I ask you to have the same criteria for judgment for both your representatives and those of the other party. That's the problem. So I'm aware that often it comes out of the frame of correcting an incorrect quote. I've warned it countless times, but we're setting up this thing the most estensively interpreting this institute. And please don't move for lifts, because I'm going to have to start giving warnings about incorrectly lifting the license plate around the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I ask you in some way to be just about who he is and what he did in terms of correction or something. It is Mr. Representative Stjepan Kundić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18689	Dear Mr. President, Madam Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here let me, first of all, point out colleagues Petir, Kalaš, Crljenko who are among their clubs I would say fantastically worked out this very important topic and in which practically covered everything that bothers us. So with the quality of this debate, it's very difficult to perform now. But I'm still going to stick to the legislation to underline what's important for today, even if it's been said several times already. Namely, what is the aim of the convention. First, it means recognising the right of children to meet and socialize, or contact with certain persons, and facilitating the exercise of these rights. Furthermore, it determines more precisely the area of establishing a child’s cross-border contact with parents with whom he otherwise does not live or persons with whom the child is in a close family relationship. Three, I'd say that which, apart from meeting and socializing, can be established, means by telephone, by letters, by electronic mail, by means of indirect means, by exchange of information through another person, etc. The Convention lays down in more detail the conduct of the central body than the Hague Convention on Civil-Legal Perspectives of International Children, and strengthens the position of the child as an entity in the procedures concerned, so that the child is entitled to express his position and wish to receive a notice by means of a procedure. In particular, issues of insurance measures and guarantees that are permeated in connection with contact shall be regulated in order to protect the achievement of this established right of the child and to ensure the return of the child to the place where he or she normally lives after the contact period. The General Assembly of the United Nations at the 44th meeting on 20 November 1988, as the secretary-general said, adopted the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which contains universal standards for ensuring the civil, political, economic, social, cultural rights of children. The Republic of Croatia as a party to the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Convention on the Civil-Legal aspects of international child abduction since 8 October 1991 has been among those countries that have assumed the obligation to ensure those rights. Since the Republic of Croatia became a member of the Council of Europe on 6 November 1996, it agreed to promote the objectives of the international organisation and respect its principles, thus promoting the rights of the child. The convention was signed by counterpart Kalash 16 Member States of the Council of Europe, and 5 countries ratified. It entered into force on 1 September 2005. Normally, the Croatian Democratic Community will support the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Contact with Children with the Final Proposal of the Law, and I am extremely glad that all MPs will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18690	Thank you. Ms. Representative Sunday, Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18691	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In view of the fact that the Republic of Croatia as a party to the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Convention on the Civil-Legal aspects of the International Child Kidnapping of 8 October 1991 was classified in the order of the advanced countries that took over the obligation to ensure and protect human rights and fundamental freedoms, which the task stems from our Constitution, and of achieving it depends on the well-being of today's population as well as the future generations. It is not worse to stress that the Convention is a legal act that has the power of law. And as President Kalash pointed out in the previous debate, the convention is not a catalogue of child rights, but a list of obligations that states must meet against the child. There is no hierarchy of children's rights, because they are necessary for a child to develop into a psychophysical complete personality. It's about the obligation of adults to a child. The convention doesn't violate the role of parents. However, they decide what is the best interest of the child. The main parties to the conventions are obliged to provide parents with support for as high a level of care as possible and by raising their children as well as by encouraging programmes implemented by NGOs. All citizens of the state, both children and adults must know and respect children's rights, and they must be unconditionally known and respected by those who work directly with children and live with children. So, parents, educators, and teachers. It's those who have the most powerful influence on the formation of a young personality. At the same time, children should build a view of personal responsibility to respecting each other’s rights, i.e. teach a child how to protect his own and others' rights. A significant addition to the Hague Convention on the Civil-Legal aspects of international child abduction applied and to cases of cross-border child contact with a parent with whom the child does not live is the Convention on Contact with Children. For the first time, it discusses a way to exercise the rights of the child and complements the Convention on the Rights of the Child. It recognises the right for children to meet and socialize and contact, both with parents with whom the child does not live and with persons from a narrow circle of relatives. The Convention establishes, precises the establishment of cross-border contacts, and other than meetings can also be contacted via telephone, letters, e-mail and the like. In addition, it specifically prescribes the conduct of the central bodies, strengthens the position of the child, which is very important because it determines the right to express its attitude and wishes, and in particular by guaranteeing and providing a return to the place where he normally lives after a period of specific contact. I will support the proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Contact with Children with the Final Proposal of the Law because this document has the primary importance of the best interests of the child as well as the non-recognition of parents only, but also children as rightholder. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18692	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18693	Thank you. Now I hope my colleague Kalash won't say I hurt the Rules of Procedure because I'm replicating now. It is, among other things, a final draft of the law, and I call for the sentence that counterpart Klaric said, all citizens must respect children's rights. Unfortunately, in practice in Croatia, in our society which is still largely primitive society, and let's not run away from it, these rights are not respected, such as often the right of women and still exists in the Houses of "Tarzan mentality", the Pater family who beats children, who thinks that in this way confirms their male kind of right that it gives itself or that the godless tradition of our society has given him in a primitive variant of understanding, proof of himself in the home environment, and what is the state doing to prevent it? It's a question of all of us. So when we talk about conventions and children's rights, it's up to us to mention what's going on in our society. We're all aware of that, we're all aware that there's a big problem here and we all have the same goal. And for God's sakes, is it a problem to talk about it in this House without being warned that you are allegedly in violation of the Rules of Procedure? No, it's not the Rules of Procedure that break, it's the right path.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18694	Replicate response, Ms. Representative, Sunday's Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18695	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I am correcting Mrs. Anticevic's incorrect quote, which states that the state is going through a line of less resistance. On the contrary, Madam MPs, because the introduction of an alimony fund on one side of the state wants to force and intends to force the debtor to legally support his underage child. On the other side of the foster family institute, if this is about the family of grandparents and on the third side, we have the introduction of a personal identification number. Also another new contribution to forcing legal abstention when it comes to a parent with whom a child does not live to meet its obligations with regard to a young child. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18696	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative's turn... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. [[Employment: Injury of the Rules of Procedure.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18697	The Member of the Commission has violated the provision of Article 209 by correcting the incorrect allegations and stating here that the state has formed an alimony fund. I don't know where it formed him. Maybe it was you who dreamed of Hebrang. .../Conversation disabled, then reactivated./... that's common knowledge. And the fact that.../The speaker is off, and then it's back on. I'm talking about irresponsible parents, and you'd put him in a foster home. What are you talking about? .../speak off, then re-enabled./... alone with herself, and didn't correct anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18698	This is a classic example of how criteria do not apply to everyone, so you will accept when a person is warned about not holding a daily or not holding a Rules of Procedure. But then you don't follow the Rules of Procedure yourself, and then it goes on forever. I beg you, let the President intervene when it comes to the breach of the Rules of Procedure and don't answer any questions. Many times we've given the possibility of correcting an incorrect allegation which is not the correcting of an incorrect allegation. But then I ask you to have the same criteria for judgment for both your representatives and those of the other party. That's the problem. So I'm aware that often it comes out of the frame of correcting an incorrect quote. I've warned it countless times, but we're setting up this thing the most estensively interpreting this institute. And please don't move for lifts, because I'm going to have to start giving warnings about incorrectly lifting the license plate around the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I ask you in some way to be just about who he is and what he did in terms of correction or something. It is Mr. Representative Stjepan Kundić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18699	Dear Mr. President, Madam Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here let me, first of all, point out colleagues Petir, Kalaš, Crljenko who are among their clubs I would say fantastically worked out this very important topic and in which practically covered everything that bothers us. So with the quality of this debate, it's very difficult to perform now. But I'm still going to stick to the legislation to underline what's important for today, even if it's been said several times already. Namely, what is the aim of the convention. First, it means recognising the right of children to meet and socialize, or contact with certain persons, and facilitating the exercise of these rights. Furthermore, it determines more precisely the area of establishing a child’s cross-border contact with parents with whom he otherwise does not live or persons with whom the child is in a close family relationship. Three, I'd say that which, apart from meeting and socializing, can be established, means by telephone, by letters, by electronic mail, by means of indirect means, by exchange of information through another person, etc. The Convention lays down in more detail the conduct of the central body than the Hague Convention on Civil-Legal Perspectives of International Children, and strengthens the position of the child as an entity in the procedures concerned, so that the child is entitled to express his position and wish to receive a notice by means of a procedure. In particular, issues of insurance measures and guarantees that are permeated in connection with contact shall be regulated in order to protect the achievement of this established right of the child and to ensure the return of the child to the place where he or she normally lives after the contact period. The General Assembly of the United Nations at the 44th meeting on 20 November 1988, as the secretary-general said, adopted the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which contains universal standards for ensuring the civil, political, economic, social, cultural rights of children. The Republic of Croatia as a party to the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Convention on the Civil-Legal aspects of international child abduction since 8 October 1991 has been among those countries that have assumed the obligation to ensure those rights. Since the Republic of Croatia became a member of the Council of Europe on 6 November 1996, it agreed to promote the objectives of the international organisation and respect its principles, thus promoting the rights of the child. The convention was signed by counterpart Kalash 16 Member States of the Council of Europe, and 5 countries ratified. It entered into force on 1 September 2005. Normally, the Croatian Democratic Community will support the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Contact with Children with the Final Proposal of the Law, and I am extremely glad that all MPs will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18700	Thank you. Ms. Representative Sunday, Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18701	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In view of the fact that the Republic of Croatia as a party to the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Convention on the Civil-Legal aspects of the International Child Kidnapping of 8 October 1991 was classified in the order of the advanced countries that took over the obligation to ensure and protect human rights and fundamental freedoms, which the task stems from our Constitution, and of achieving it depends on the well-being of today's population as well as the future generations. It is not worse to stress that the Convention is a legal act that has the power of law. And as President Kalash pointed out in the previous debate, the convention is not a catalogue of child rights, but a list of obligations that states must meet against the child. There is no hierarchy of children's rights, because they are necessary for a child to develop into a psychophysical complete personality. It's about the obligation of adults to a child. The convention doesn't violate the role of parents. However, they decide what is the best interest of the child. The main parties to the conventions are obliged to provide parents with support for as high a level of care as possible and by raising their children as well as by encouraging programmes implemented by NGOs. All citizens of the state, both children and adults must know and respect children's rights, and they must be unconditionally known and respected by those who work directly with children and live with children. So, parents, educators, and teachers. It's those who have the most powerful influence on the formation of a young personality. At the same time, children should build a view of personal responsibility to respecting each other’s rights, i.e. teach a child how to protect his own and others' rights. A significant addition to the Hague Convention on the Civil-Legal aspects of international child abduction applied and to cases of cross-border child contact with a parent with whom the child does not live is the Convention on Contact with Children. For the first time, it discusses a way to exercise the rights of the child and complements the Convention on the Rights of the Child. It recognises the right for children to meet and socialize and contact, both with parents with whom the child does not live and with persons from a narrow circle of relatives. The Convention establishes, precises the establishment of cross-border contacts, and other than meetings can also be contacted via telephone, letters, e-mail and the like. In addition, it specifically prescribes the conduct of the central bodies, strengthens the position of the child, which is very important because it determines the right to express its attitude and wishes, and in particular by guaranteeing and providing a return to the place where he normally lives after a period of specific contact. I will support the proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Contact with Children with the Final Proposal of the Law because this document has the primary importance of the best interests of the child as well as the non-recognition of parents only, but also children as rightholder. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18702	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18703	Thank you. Now I hope my colleague Kalash won't say I hurt the Rules of Procedure because I'm replicating now. It is, among other things, a final draft of the law, and I call for the sentence that counterpart Klaric said, all citizens must respect children's rights. Unfortunately, in practice in Croatia, in our society which is still largely primitive society, and let's not run away from it, these rights are not respected, such as often the right of women and still exists in the Houses of "Tarzan mentality", the Pater family who beats children, who thinks that in this way confirms their male kind of right that it gives itself or that the godless tradition of our society has given him in a primitive variant of understanding, proof of himself in the home environment, and what is the state doing to prevent it? It's a question of all of us. So when we talk about conventions and children's rights, it's up to us to mention what's going on in our society. We're all aware of that, we're all aware that there's a big problem here and we all have the same goal. And for God's sakes, is it a problem to talk about it in this House without being warned that you are allegedly in violation of the Rules of Procedure? No, it's not the Rules of Procedure that break, it's the right path.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18704	Replicate response, Ms. Representative, Sunday's Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18705	Here, thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm going to answer, in fact, and I need to replicate again, citing actually what this convention is intended to do. I point out once again, the primary importance is actually given to the best interests of the child. The focus of our attention is the child. In addition to that, another large actually large dimension, a wide dimension. Not only is it recognised to the right parent, but also to the child as a right holder, and as regards the syntagma, I will call her so conditionally the Pater Family, I will simply tell you that I am proud that I am personally raised and raised in a family where there was known who the head of the family, who is the responsible person in the family, with all the members of that same family, or those families equally legally involved in decisions that mattered to the whole family, always with focus and always with the best interest of the child. I hope it's intended and I'm convinced that the intention of this convention is precisely the greatest benefit for the child. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18706	And where are we going with this, these trespasses in the law? Final review, State Secretary Dorica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18707	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs. I thank you for your support, I understand that from the presentation of clubs and individual representatives and MPs, you all agree that Croatia should actually accept this Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Contact with Children. And I must point out once again, precisely because it complements the Hague Convention on, practically on civil and legal aspects of the international abduction of children with whom we as a central body in the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Health and Social We are dealing with and when we see that we are missing exactly in contact with abroad, this convention that will make it possible for us, much better as a central body, to have some rights that we are looking for as a state towards a parent who has done something that we should not have done, actually, to help us much. It is indisputable what Mrs Anticevic said that Croatia has very good legislation and that it has all these elements that we have talked about and that this convention has, but often another state that happens, for example, has no such legislation, and then we can also refer to this convention. So, we really have as far as the rights of the child are concerned, we have a well-resolved legislation, we have a good solution in all the laws that concern it. We also have a solution today, you remember that during this period, during this legislative period and changed family law regarding child restraint. I must point out that what is mentioned is that children need to be cared for by parents, of course it is a basic and basic matter and that there are obligations of grandparents in the Family Law. I'm just surprised that we've all forgotten that actually the grandparents got introduced into the former one, actually the former government introduced that rule of law, so now that there's been a new amendment to the law of the family law, there was a chance that if you noticed that you'd made that mistake yourself to correct it. We thought then that the alinea had received most of it in the former legislative period and we should leave it there. If you thought this should be changed, you could have suggested it. As far as child restraint is concerned, and as far as contact with children is concerned, all the assumptions have been made that an irresponsible parent is actually charged as much as possible at this time, so if not possible, social care centres in that area are flying in with help. As far as meeting and socializing is concerned, it is true that since 1.1.2006 it has been on the courts and on all of us, including this Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to strengthen family judges and to actually allow children and in the Republic of Croatia to have regular meetings and gatherings, but I say this convention actually helps us to be together with those parents who do not live in the Republic of Croatia. Once again, I thank all MPs and all the clubs for their support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18708	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18709	Mrs. Secretary of State incorrectly claimed that this was when it was such a family law that why we didn't react. Well, the Family Law and its changes were passed to the council majority. We have warned from the SDP club not only this thing but the whole series of illogicalities contained in this Family Law, so I'll just point out to you this illogicalness, that we have again that inconceivable assumption that the mother is always the one who gave birth to the child, and there, in challenging fatherhood and motherhood, we have the possibility that the mother of the child who gave the egg station, who was kidnapped by an egg cell to challenge motherhood to another mother. Now we have such illogicalities, and between this we have warned, and now you, you are transferring us to the Parliament. I once again plead that you choose to have the government look at it and to come up with a change in these illogicalities. ... The false assumption is that we didn't react. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18710	This is a school example of counterpart Ingrid Antičević-Marinović misusing the institute to correct the incorrect allegations high to the sky, and therefore President of the Parliament has warned you on several occasions that you do not replicate through the firm correcting incorrect allegations, you do not express your opinions. You have now stated that why the State Secretary if she felt it was necessary to change the law did not do so, among other things. What kind of correction is that? With great regret, I must give you a warning. ... I hope as it is said that pedagogical will affect you to stick to the Rules of Procedure. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here's a nice reminder, that means you're aware of everything. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18711	17. The final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Contact with Children was an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 172. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Convention on Contact with Children. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The law was passed by most votes, 112 votes for and one abstention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18712	We're going to the next point. - Final proposal of the Law on the restriction of the use of tobacco products, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 173 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate, carried out by committees on legislation, European integration, health care and social care and by the Committee on Tourism. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Health and Social Care and Representative Boro Grubisic. Proposer representative, State Secretary Ante Zvonimir Golem will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18713	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. So in March of this year, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Law on Confirmation of the World Health Organisation Framework Convention on Tobacco Control as soon as the Republic of Croatia confirmed its consistency with the active policy in the field of health protection, prevention and control of the use of tobacco smoke and tobacco products. According to the directives of 1989 and 1990, which regulated the transport of tobacco products, the Republic of Croatia already adopted the Law on the restriction of the use of tobacco products with one change in 2000, which largely regulated the scope of tobacco products and which, by Directives 2001 and 2003, the Council of Europe was in line with Directives. The Framework Convention on the Control of Tobacco Products, which was adopted in 2003 in Washington, which was signed by the Republic of Croatia and which was ratified so this year in March, has practically set further directions to strengthen the fight against the use of tobacco products. The proposed law in domestic legislation is in line with the acquis of Europe, but provisions are also introduced to ensure that, in addition to its legislative purpose, the law also has its preventive or educational purpose. The proposed law lays down measures to reduce the restrictions on the use of tobacco products. The strict codes of the harmful ingredients of cigarettes and mandatory labelling on the packaging of tobacco products and other preventive measures shall be introduced and all in order to protect the health of citizens. The proposed law reduces the permitted quantities of harmful substances in relation to the existing law and to tar, nicotine, carbon monoxide and precisely defines the form and size of the data and those warnings on the individual packaging of tobacco products. The proposed law prohibits direct and indirect promotion of tobacco products, prohibits advertising of products that are not considered tobacco products, which directly encourage the consumption of tobacco products by their form and purpose. In order to protect minors from the harmful influence of tobacco products, the sale of tobacco products is prohibited to persons under 18 years of age. It is also regulated that at all sales points where tobacco products are sold, the label on the ban on the sale of tobacco products to persons under the age of 18 must be highlighted. In relation to the existing law, the proposed law introduces a new system, a closed-space system as it regulates the ban on smoking in all public spaces, which, in the context of this proposed law, is considered spaces intended for common human beings, and includes spaces in buildings where activities are carried out in the field of health, child protection, social care, education, trade, sports, recreation, catering, tourism, culture, art, traffic, including waiting rooms, meeting rooms, all halls for gathering people, theatres, public transport, elevators, cabins, cablers, public toilets and open spaces for the maintenance of theatre, cinema-shows, school courtyards, courtyards of health institutions and other premises. Under closed public space within the meaning of the proposed law, a space with a roof and completely closed more than half of the surface of the corresponding rocks is considered. Smoking is also prohibited in rooms which are not considered closed public spaces under this law, and are functionally part of the area in which the activities of education, education and health care are carried out. Exceptionally, those prohibitions allow smoking in particular for smokers of certain accommodation areas in accordance with the rules of the catering activity, in particular for smokers of certain places in psychiatric hospitals and in particular for smokers of certain premises of other healthcare providers, mentally ill persons. The smoking space must be arranged that there is no possible air flow polluted by tobacco smoke to another space, must not be intended for transition to other spaces and must not occupy more than 20% of the total area of public space. As I stated at the beginning of the presentation, this law provides not only a legislative framework, but also a promotional framework, a framework for promoting the fight against addiction. Namely, this is also an opportunity to say a few words about tobacco harmfulness, which is surely said a great deal and is considered to be well - known, but some things may be forgotten. Smoking has, to a greater or lesser extent, been a socially acceptable norm, a norm in which, for example, it was not considered that, according to the law, two liters of air came out through a cigarette with four thousand harmful ingredients of tobacco smoke. However, in some way hiding their own consciences, smokers tend to turn to escape, flee from the truth, and say cancers of various causes can happen to nonsmokers. Although scientific achievements today have undoubtedly proved that other than those such as lung cancer that is directly related to smoking and tobacco smoke, there are a number of other malignancies that are very much talked about in this House and are looking for major preventive actions. So let's say it's one of those and breast cancers for which the National Programme for Prevention and Early Disclosure, not thinking that, say, nicotine smoke and cigarettes are also one of the cause of breast cancer. And in further research, it is possible to prove that such an increase may be directly linked to a cigarette. However, if we do not look back on malignancies, we need to look at other types of disease and today we will talk to blood vessels, but we will not talk about minor diseases, diseases that are also threatened by our research, and according to the World Health Organization's research, they are on a huge scale because smoking is also brought directly by depression. Thus, there are a number of diseases, and there is virtually no area in medicine that is not directly threatened with cigarettes or tobacco smoke. An economic aspect which, in the discussions that you will hear these days, is being conducted to some extent perhaps the justifications of a less restrictive law are also not standing. Because when you go to look on the side of the smoker himself, the average smoker per pack of cigarettes gets seven thousand kunas a day. Out of 7 thousand kuna, 1400 kuna is allocated to the state budget in the year. In 10 years of smoking, that's 14 thousand kuna. This is not even the cost of one dose of one medicine in lung cancer. This is not even 20% of the cost of treating ordinary flu, for which smokers are also much more often susceptible to getting flu. Therefore, looking at the proposal for this law that lies before you, the proposal is which should, for the purpose of all other preventive measures, expire either from this law or from this law, but also from other activities carried out in the State. One should provide clean air or reduce the risk of all of these diseases in people who do not smoke, in people who do not want to smoke, and in people who do not want to be exposed. It has been proven scientifically, in a way that appears as part of a smoker’s secretion, that a non-smoking smoker standing next to a smoker who smoked one cigarette smoked half a cigarette. And that's unequivocal. It is certain, then, that if in the room one smoker smokes a pack of cigarettes that 5, 10, or 15 people smoke half a pack of cigarettes. No doubt, if a non-smoking waiter in a coffee shop spent eight hours in one working time, the non-smoker had smoked a secure 10 cartons of cigarettes in those eight hours. This data and this data are based on restrictions which have been the subject of discussions on committees, as well as discussions in public because it should be said that no one should be discriminated against in any case. But as we fight today to find the causes of all possible health problems that arise in society, so we talk about environmentalism, we talk about clean consciousness, we talk about tobacco, we talk about smoke, we talk about everything else, and at the same time we clearly and loudly don't give smokers any warning that the first pollution is happening under their own nose. Accordingly, we believe that this House will accept this bill in this form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18714	Thank you. Legislative committees? For European integration? For health care and welfare? President of the Committee, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18715	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee discussed the draft law as a home working body and proposed three amendments. In his opening statement, the proposing representative pointed out that the Republic of Croatia confirmed the World Health Organisation Framework Convention on Tobacco Control. This is why the Republic of Croatia, given that smoking and exposure to tobacco smoke is a leading risk factor in health and promoting the objectives of the Framework Convention, confirmed the consistency of its policy in the field of health protection, prevention and control of tobacco use and tobacco products. In the discussion, the committee members supported this law, which primarily represents the protection of non-smoking health, which promotes preventive measures and affects the reduction of the number of new smokers and promotes the view that each individual is responsible for his or her health. However, regardless of the restrictiveity and uncompromising nature of this law, the importance of the preventive measures it adopts is particularly highlighted, the measures of enlightenment and education on the harmfulness of smoking, from the earliest day of kindergarten, and beyond. A particular problem is the use of tobacco in their own homes within a family where children are just gaining first knowledge of this addiction. In the context of prevention, parents for responsible parenting should also be educated in this regard. As a quality and permanent prevention requires considerable resources in the opinion of the board members, other than the state budget designated as the source of prevention funds, part of the costs of expensive promotional videos could be covered through the price of cigarettes. The opinion is also expressed that, through contracts with primary healthcare doctors, programmes such as those could be negotiated. Non-smoking school programs. In addition to these remarks, the Committee adopted and proposed three amendments. The first amendment, in Article 3, in which the words "spiritual products" are replaced by the word "cigarette" Reason. The provisions on nicotine, tar and nitrogen monoxide concentrations in this article refer to cigarettes and to the amount of tobacco in cigarettes, not other tobacco products, and should therefore be considered as cigarettes instead of tobacco products. So that's one language correction. The second amendment applies to Article 5 of Article 5 of Article 5(1) of the second subparagraph of paragraph 2. There is a definition, smoking killing/ smoking may kill. They need to be replaced by the words "smoking" kills. Explanation, Directive 2001 No 37 on advertising and sales of tobacco products makes such a recommendation in the alternative. So he suggests writing on the box either one or the other sentence, not both, so we suggest that instead of both of them taking an alternative that's closer to the truth, which is that smoking kills. And the third amendment to Article 11(6) to delete the words Rizzle and the like. Namely, this article discusses banning minors from smoking plant smokers and other smoking products and then the word rizzle is mentioned in the brackets, and the ristle is protected by the World Intellectual Property Organisation, and this name should be deleted in this provision because it remains within the other defined prohibitions. Finally, with the adoption and proposal of these amendments, the Committee proposes the adoption of the law in the form in which it was submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18716	Thank you. The Tourism Committee? The chairman of the Committee, Mr. Marin Brkaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18717	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At its 8th session held on 3 October, the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the Proposal for a Law on the Restriction of the Use of Tobacco Products by the Final Proposal of the Law submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 30 September 2008 with a proposal to comply with Article 161 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall adopt the proposed law by an urgent procedure. The tourism committee considered this legislative proposal on the basis of Article 140. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as an interested working body and, in part, pursuant to Article 1 but not to Article 3 of the same Rules of Procedure and as a home working body in the section relating to the area of hospitality and tourism and directly related activities. On behalf of the promoter, the opening statement on the reasons for the proposal of this law, by reason of certain provisions, was submitted by Anto Zvonimir Golem State Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Croatia, and pointed out in particular that the fundamental objective of the proposed law is to maintain and improve the health of the public, and not to prohibit smoking. In a general debate on the need to pass the proposed law, the Committee took the view that it should be adopted and did not object to its adoption in an urgent procedure. The debate also noted that the proposed law should give greater importance to measures and programmes of prevention and education, especially young people in educational and educational institutions, in order to prevent smoking addiction in time. In the debate in the text of the proposed law, the Committee delivered several opinions, views and remarks, and that was the case with Article 13. Article 13(4) of indent 1 lays down exceptions, i.e. the area in which smoking is allowed, in particular for smokers of certain accommodation areas, according to the rules on catering activities, in accordance with the rules in the catering activities of the "National Journal" 138/06. and corresponding sublaws. The accommodation area includes groups, hotels, campsites and other types of catering facilities. Among other things, rooms for rent, apartments, holiday homes, accommodations, resorts, hostels, mountain homes, hunting homes, pupils' dorms, dorms, etc. The types of facilities that are not accommodation facilities are classified restaurants, bars, catering, facilities and facilities of simple services which provide facilities with services for the use of drinks, drinks and food. Therefore, according to the proposed statement in Article 13 of the proposed law, there could be major ambiguities of doubts in the application of the law, and it is proposed to the proposer to explain by its amendment its intention, which includes the provision contained in Article 13(4) of the proposed law. This Regulation shall enter into Article 14(4) of the first indent provides that no food or drink can be consumed in smoking areas, it is proposed to allow for the use and consumption of drinks in those areas, which may also be used in different conflicted forms. Articles 15 to 18 prescribe high value and sophisticated technical equipment in smoking areas, ventilation system, measuring and displaying devices, air supply, etc. What all requires is significant investment and must be provided by the owner. For this reason, it is proposed to design simpler and cheaper technical devices that could also meet legal conditions. In connection with the text of the proposed law, it has been indicated that its provisions do not cover major problems of using tobacco products in families and their own homes where children gain first knowledge of this addiction. On the basis of the debate held, the Tourism Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament a law on the restriction of the use of tobacco products by majority of votes 8 for and one abstention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18718	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Ms. Mariana Petir's club of representatives of the HSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18719	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. The Croatian Peasant Party's club will support the adoption of the Law on the restriction of the use of tobacco products. Smoking isn't an "in" today, and more and more people stop with that ugly habit. Unfortunately, many die of consequences, and the tobacco industry struggles to replace all those consumers who have lost in any way. This is what big money is invested in, and largely women and young people are targeted. Although the results of the anti-smoking campaign are increasingly visible, the fight between the tobacco industry and those who stand for health remains a struggle between David and Goliath, as the tobacco industry has money, and the rest of us are mostly left with enthusiasm and bare hands. As a result of the opposition to the ban on smoking in public places, we must point out that this is not about the conflict of smokers and non-smokers because smokers also welcome the decision. This is not a law against them, but against smoking that threatens both them and non-smokers. In fact, this is very often about the resistance of the tobacco industry and a small number of those who benefit from it against all those who fight for health. Smoking causes every tenth death of adults worldwide and is the leading cause of death that can be prevented. About 10,000 people are estimated to die annually in Croatia as a result of smoking and around 5 million people are moving around the world. The Croatian Health Insurance Institute spends about 3 billion kuna per year on smoking-related diseases. So imagine how many hospitals could be built with that money but equip children’s wards where children are treated with malignancies rather than spending that money on those who are voluntarily poisoned. As for the number of smokers in Croatia today, about 30% of the adult population is mentioned. Developed countries have been systematically fighting these addictions for many years, for example, the United States has reduced the percentage from more than 50% to less than 20%. It is similar in Western Europe and Australia where the law is implemented very restrictively. There smoking is forbidden even on some beaches, so in the open area, and it is thought that cigarettes where they are sold are not in a visible place but that those looking for them are literally being removed below the counter. The proposed law restricting the use of tobacco products provides the basis for implementing systematic activities aimed at reducing and limiting the use of tobacco products to protect the health of citizens while respecting the specificity of the time and process of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union and enabling adaptation to the domestic legal legislation of the European Union in this area. Smoking has been banned by Norway, Sweden, Malta, Italy, France, Great Britain, Ireland, Finland, Slovenia, Belgium, Bulgaria, Germany, Denmark and Turkey for the time being. The law's intensity affects smokers to change their habits and protect non-smokers from the consequences of passive smoking. Since Croatia has 70% of non-smokers in this law, we want to protect most of our citizens and we consider it responsible and justified. Smoking is a hard-core addiction. It causes a series of diseases, 30 or more. Of course, the most endangered are organs and systems that are in direct contact with smoke, therefore the respiratory and cardiovascular system. Smoking is one of the main risk factors for heart attack, stroke, peripheral circulation damage, but all other organs and systems are at risk. Passive smokers are also a risky group because they breathe smoke directly from the tip of a lit cigarette but also those profiled by the smoker inhaled and exhaled. The saddest example of passive smoking is the natural intrauterine smoking of children. According to pregnant women who smoke directly harm to the health of their unborn child because all harmful ingredients get into the baby’s bloodstream and it is known that mothers who give birth prematurely during pregnancy have more spontaneous abortions and are more frequently malformations in children and lower birth weight. Some children, unfortunately, are exposed to the inhaling of tobacco smoke after birth. Studies show that such children are more often affected by respiratory diseases, middle ear inflammation, asthma, and similar diseases. In addition, since children prefer to take over what they see and not what they are told if their identification models such as parents, teachers, doctors, and the like make such behaviour desirable and acceptable to them. And today it is known that there are more than 4,000 different harmful chemicals in the smoke of cigarettes, 50 of which are carcinogenic. That the causal link between smoking and malignancies was demonstrated in the 1960s, but only when economists calculated the damage caused by smoking for the country and the economy was more serious in the fight against this addiction. For example, a major stop smoking campaign in California saved $86 billion in health in the first 15 years. The gain achieved by the campaign programme grew very quickly and its effects felt extensively. Unlike other programmes targeting the teenage population, the California programme focused on adults through an aggressive media campaign and a change in public policy, for example by promoting a non-smoking area, as this law suggests. According to the study, the programme prevented 3.6 billion cases of cigarettes from being sold over a period of 15 years, bringing $9.2 billion to the tobacco industry. There, the tobacco industry spends $13 billion a year on promotions and advertising related to smoking. Imagine what their profit is if I can invest that much in the promotion. So in the U.S., as I said in a serious struggle, it started after economic calculations. It has been found that the state actually records major economic losses due to the consequences of smoking. Taking into account all the damage to mortality, treatment, fire, accident to the environmental consequences associated with smoking, the ratio is 1:7. It's like you're putting a kuna in one pocket, and you're pulling seven out of the other. Therefore, in the European Union, cigarette prices for EURO are increasing annually. A 10% increase in cigarette prices was shown to decrease smoking by 4% in developed countries and by about 8% in undeveloped countries. In addition, an additional benefit should be added, which is a significantly smaller burden for health insurance, the treatment of diseases that are the direct consequence of smoking the Croatian Health Insurance Office stands at about 3 billion kuna and an indirect 5 billion kuna. Therefore, in the HSS, we also support the introduction of a model for increasing the price of cigarettes that should lead to a reduction in smoking because it often reacts only when someone is hit in the pocket. This law regulates the ban on smoking in all closed public spaces, excluding only psychiatric institutions. The time of adjustment for public institutions, cafes and tobacco industries is 6 months long enough for the provisions of this law on educational and health institutions to apply 8 days after its publication. The proposed solution in this law is in relation to the applicable law which does not regulate the issue of the most permitted amount of nicotine and carbon monoxide per cigarette, a large newspaper. The applicable law prohibits the production and transport of cigarettes containing more than 12 milligrams of tar per cigarette while a ban on the production and transport of cigarettes containing more than 10 milligrams of tar per cigarette is now proposed. The proposed law also specifies the content of the data as general and additional warnings that must contain each individual packaging of tobacco products, so that the individual packaging of tobacco products is no longer permitted to use terms such as small quantities of tar, light, ultra light or the like, because everyone reasonable knows that tar and nicotine are not light and that this is a classic example of the deception that the tobacco industry places. The proposed law also prohibits the sponsorship of events, activities or individuals with a goal, effect or possible effect of direct or indirect promotion of tobacco products or tobacco use, which means that we will no longer look at those famous promotional messages “Greetings from Rovinj” or various galleries where the latest exhibition of paintings of a famous artist is, and they are, by chance, located right in the place of the production of cigarettes. In order to protect minors from the harmful influence of tobacco products, the sale of tobacco products is prohibited to persons under 18 years of age and we believe that this should be put in place for sure. Penalties for violating this law for legal persons are rigorous, but on the other hand we can say justifiable. They range from 30000 to 150000 kuna, and this also applies to the non-ensuring of smoking bans in a closed public space, but also to 28 other provisions, while penalties are for natural persons from 500 to 1000 kuna. Smoking is a risk factor for health that can be avoided, and this shows that greater intensity of the prevention and control measures is needed. Penalties are certainly an integral part of it, but we in the HSS believe that education should also be stronger than it has been before. Because the number of 10,000 people who die annually in Croatia from smoking and treatment spent on 3 billion kunas, and the cause of smoking, is indeed a sign of alarm. We believe therefore that this law step forward and the HSS club will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18720	Thank you. HDZ Representatives' Club, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18721	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We are facing a long - awaited law that may be misrepresented in public sometimes as a law that will reduce the number of smokers. They will, they'll cut it down. In other countries' experience, maybe two, three, four percent. But it is also a huge reduction in the dangers of tobacco and smoking and tobacco consumption. The basic intensity of this law is, therefore, to protect at least a part of the smoker, to protect absolutely all non-smokers. In fact, the sad fact is that nicotine is the only drug, the only addiction that does not destroy and kills not only the organism that enjoys, but also the one who lives near it, in the family, in the workplace, in the public place. So this law should save 3,000 non-smoking lives annually in Croatia, and believe me, there is not one single law that can save so many lives and no other action that can save so many lives. For comparisons, these 10,000 smokers and 3,000 passive smokers or non-smoking smokers who die annually in Croatia that is 20 times the number of people killed in all traffic accidents per year. And how much we're fighting to improve traffic. How much we invest in infrastructure, road, prevention, driver education, in various actions to comply with traffic regulations. So far, have we done enough for the cause of death that kills 20 times more than traffic itself? If we're not, this law and everything behind it allows us to add it. What's sad about Croatia is that 70% of the population is in a group of passive smokers, which means. This means that in those 70% who don't smoke, but breathe in other people's smoke in various rooms in these passive smokers, the risk of heart attack or stroke is 25% higher than the risk they'd have of staying in a room with a smoker. And 30%, so a third is more likely to get malignant lung or bronch tumor compared to not sitting next to a smoker. So we're saving 25% of strokes, saving 30% more tumors with one action that has led to virtually the entire advanced world. What you need to say about tobacco is that when a man hears the data then he wonders, so what took so long to ban smoking in public spaces that this law seems to be in closed spaces that are designed for gathering more people. Well, first of all, in the first stage, these were insufficient knowledge of the harmfulness of nicotine. These findings were significantly delayed by the spread of nicotine consumption. Only in the '50s did Hill and co-workers in Germany publish the first scientific work on 40,000 doctors where a group of smokers was proven to be more often suffering from cardiovascular disease, so heart attack, brain attack and malignant tumors. Only in the 1960s in America is the spirit, the enjoyment of tobacco declared undesirable, and those 70s begin and bans in America. The World Health Organization of the 1980s declares smoking a disease. So it's a disease to smoke like any other disease and it's recorded in the World Health Organization as such and we're obliged to reduce both the consequences of severe and dangerous diseases by preventing and treating them. What's killing in a cigarette? It kills about 4,000 ingredients of chemically different ingredients, large majority of which are carcinogenic and cause cancer and to be introduced in some other way would also cause cancer. He kills a nicotine that a cigarette smoker takes between one and a half and two and a half milligrams into his bloodstream. Only comparisons for a double amount, so 5 milligrams is enough for acute poisoning, and 50 milligrams is enough to kill a man if given at once. So actually, in one pack of cigarettes, we have a lethal dose of nicotine for one man if she suddenly entered his system. Why is it so hard to quit smoking? Because there's a mechanism of addiction that, after the resorption of nicotine in the bloodstream in the brain, causes neurotransliter secretion. These are chemical ingredients that then actually affect the nervous system of the whole body. One of them is the most significant dopamine that causes this feeling of pleasure. When the blood flow falls, the concentration of nicotine smoker must raise that concentration to a higher level to satisfy that amount of dopamine and thus make its sense of pleasure also come true. Of course, it's a clean addiction mechanism, and that's why nicotine should be fought like a classic drug. As for the duration of life, today it is absolutely proven that the average is, so we do not take those individuals who are particularly resistant to nicotine because they are such genetic structures, so the lucky ones are 80 years with a cigarette, these are rarithics, but when we talk about average, then one cigarette reduces life between 8 and 14 minutes depending on studies. Every eight seconds, an average person dies in the world. As we conduct this debate on this law, several thousand smokers and passive smokers will unfortunately die in the world. My colleague Petir said, and it is absolutely right that we have done a lot in the conditions in which we have lived for the last twenty years on the number of smokers and indeed the number of smokers in Croatia has been reduced by 2 to 3% and is indeed less than the average of smokers in the European Union countries. But we have to worry about the fact that there's a growing number of kids who smoke, young people, adolescents. I'll only give you one piece of information. In the last 10 years, the number of children in first grade high school, so in the first and second grade high school, has significantly increased the number of girls in those 10 years who smoke regularly by 4%, and the number of boys in first and second grade secondary schools who regularly smoke is 5% and that is what is actually devastating because obviously our prevention measures were not sufficiently focused on this most vulnerabilable younger population, but we are more focused on adults. In adults we have achieved a certain effect, and after the adoption of this law I believe that we will all jointly focus our preventive educational measures on this younger age group because it is an age group that unfortunately will not experience the average life expectancy, only because at that early age they started to enjoy nicotine. But it should be said in the adoption of this law that this is not the first step. So we are in Croatia in the last ten, fifteen years, if we exclude the period of war. In fact, as early as 1996, practically immediately after the war ended, we introduced a very important chapter in the Labour Act, which was chapter 13 called non-smoking protection. Therefore, in this regard, the Labour Act has imposed a complete ban on working in working rooms and on working meetings a complete ban on smoking. Unfortunately, the law at the time made one exception, which is that they can determine the rooms where they will be smoked and they must be marked with the inscription "this is the smoking room". And what happened? In a large number of offices, they pulled the sign "this is a smoking room" out of the drawer and smoked in a large number of offices. All those rooms were in accordance with the law of the smoking room. So, the law was inconclusive. In 1999 we passed the Law on restricted use of tobacco products. Article 11 provides for a ban on smoking in health rooms. So nowhere in health care facilities and offices from that day forward should smoke anymore. Unfortunately, even today in our hospitals, when we walk down the hall, we feel the smell of tobacco from some rooms. Why? Article 12 prohibits smoking in educational and educational institutions, and it is largely respected, except for some higher education institutions where unfortunately we see teachers and students smoking in the rooms of their university or universities. What is particularly worrying was Article 2 which, since 1999, limited the use of tobacco products and in catering facilities. So it was then determined that one part of the restaurant or other catering area must be allocated to smokers, it is determined that it must be an organized air circulation that must suck the air out, must not go towards the smoking area, etc. In which restaurant do you see this organized ventilation, where you see our restaurant obeying that rule? I think, not to think, but I'm sure such restaurants are unfortunately exceptions. Where was the mistake in that? It was a mistake to have control of it only had a sanitary inspection. So, a few inspectors around the county. They really couldn't even theoretically, let alone practically enter every restaurant and control the implementation. This law makes a significant step for the better. One of the best, I would say the excerpts of this law is precisely that the supervision of the conduct trusts not one inspection, but even 5 inspections are involved from sanitary, health, to the State Inspectorate and that is what will actually guarantee us the implementation of this law. If there is an organized, planned action of all 5 inspectorates together, especially in the initial stages of law enforcement, then I believe in its success. The law also makes a big step in prevention. We said that no ban can affect citizens' behavior as well as timely education. Article 22 of this Act obliges the adoption of an education programme. A minister in charge of education has been appointed for the adoption of the programme, with the agreement of the health minister. The programme becomes a mandatory component of education from preschool to school and later student ages, but the programme will include adult education. In this education, the big problem is very expensive seconds of public screening of a promotional video. I remember one of our actions back in the '90s when we were if you remember that little one human being who was drawn, who smokes cigarettes turns to ashes, and then he turns into a pile of ash. That video cost so much, a few seconds of his showing that we could show it once a week. The financial display of videos on television, which is the information that is the fastest and closest to reach citizens, is actually very expensive and I use this opportunity to appeal to public television to open its doors to such humanitarian actions as a discount on videos that explain to the audience what it is smoking. So public television should have a role to play there. Of course, it cannot be prescribed by law like this, but it can make a voluntary decision, and with that I believe public television would get a lot on the ratings of those who want to live longer, and that is the vast majority of viewers and viewers. In the end, I would also like to commend the adoption of a national commission in this law. The National Commission, which actually cares about the implementation, which gives an annual report to the Minister, who oversees the work of inspections, which monitors both preventive actions and programmes, monitors developments abroad, applies positive knowledge to our country, and thus this commission becomes a key protector of non-smoking health in Croatia. It is also a quality solution and funding, so Article 24 said that all the costs of promotion, education are borne by the state budget and that is the only logical solution, because the state budget will not only protect a large number of lives, which is far more important than it will achieve with such preventive measures and huge savings. We've already heard 3 billion people pick up about excise duties on tobacco, and we spend 3 billion on the treatment of smoking patients, and we're actually zero. But the absence of a patient's job is 20% higher, the smoker is 20% higher than non-smoking, and the disability is 30% higher. Thus, the state budget will also make significant gains there. For all these reasons, we are proposing the adoption of this law and we think it is a major step in the fight for public health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18722	Thank you. HDSSB representative club, Mr. Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18723	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. I also take one to say a good example of the debate on this bill, since I come from a place where tobacco was being made from Herzegovina, is it not, and by the profession I am a doctor, so here is what gives me the right to discuss this proposal of the Law on the restriction of the use of tobacco products, with the Final Proposal of the Law, so here is the final legal procedure in connection with the use of tobacco products, or as Mr. Hrelja cigarette said at the end of the day. If we were to ask smokers and non-smokers together, I don't think there's any difference in the awareness that smoking is harmful for each other. All the harmful consequences that smoking brings, starting with lung, throat, esophageal and other organs, from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and all those diseases that Mrs Petir spoke of here, and also from fellow Hebrang, which is quite clear, what statistics and the World Health Organization and the Croatian Health Insurance Institute are talking about, therefore, about 3,000 deaths which are therefore a direct consequence of smoking, about the risk due to high pressure, heart attack, stroke and everything that has already happened here, and here I no longer have anything to add. When we ask those smokers if they're aware of it, they are. But what is it that makes them keep smoking? When you come to Germany, Austria or anywhere and you have a cigarette machine, not a single pack of cigarettes, and not even one of the cheapest ones without 5 euros being put in. 5 € that's 36 kuna. Someone here was talking about, Mrs. Petyr, one to say this repressive sentence, hitting on the pocket. 5 € is a punch in the pocket, and 2 € is not a punch in the pocket. When we have penalties in traffic offences that are truly European, we remember the Transport Safety Act that was and adopted here in this House, and when we see these penalties that are really drastic in relation to our salaries and our incomes, the salaries of the population, pensions and everything else, then when we compare those penalties with the price of cigarettes in us, if we are already norms, then here's an example of what it looks like in Europe. So when we talk about smoking, we have to say that it's really a disease of addiction like the use of intoxicating drugs and like alcoholism. What are we fighting for drug use, what are we fighting for alcoholism? And prevention, but also curative in the HZZO payment system. A long time ago, Stjepan Radic said that our schools, Croatian schools, should not only be educational institutions but primarily educational institutions. Clearly, the proposal of the Committee on Health and Social Care mentions that there is a start on education on the harmfulness of smoking at the earliest, kindergarten age, but also in schools. This education must not be one time, but must be continuous, must be permanent. It must look like a permanent, aggressive long-term anti-smoking campaign. Stjepan Radić said that the family is also the foundation of society, and then on this point it must set an example, i.e. in the family it provides an example and teaches children, i.e. it shows itself precisely in connection with this evil addiction that brings all that my predecessors have said about the state of health in humans, not only in those who smoke but also in people who are in the environment, who are non-smokers. When I'm staying recently in, so to say in the constituency I come from, and when I tell some of the smokers that the law is here on the agenda and the final bill, I can say openly and honestly that they felt discriminated, they say it's their decision. But as they feel discriminated against, so are the non-smokers who are close to them. So these are the one attitudes that I'm not going to say irreconcilable, but in any case everyone is aware of the harmful consequences of smoking. So this bill also makes it clear that the HDSSB club will support with a certain amendment that we have invested on what Mr. Secretary of State will say in the vote, which is that, here we can also say that abroad I have seen in airports and in some other places, to say sophisticated cabins that certainly satisfy the aspirations, filtration and others, are cleaning the air. ... Discriminated smokers can make their habit that they cannot give up and consume without harming their surroundings and people around them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, those in that cabin are exposed to the eyes of others, and indeed, man feels a little ashamed when he's so isolated as to know which of the rest of the world. So, this problem of smoking, which in adults slowly, I would say, is slightly stopping because adults are fully aware of all the harmfulness and then that percentage of smokers in Croatia is slightly dropping. But exactly what I was saying about schools, about kindergartens, about the educational activity of that school age, we see that there is a problem in growing the number of underage smokers. In the articles of this law, so in Chapter 4, we see that there are preventive anti-smoking measures. My predecessor, Mr. Andrija Hebrang, spoke of them, but I think, with the item he says, it's proposed that a quitting program... I was also in the previous exhibition when I was talking here about the bill in the first reading then mentioned that, and I don't think it's a problem and then introduce it, then implement, that exactly the quitting programs so I'd say some kind of quitter with smokers who have a desire, have a strong desire and awareness of the harmfulness of smoking by themselves, by their family around, that it's as simple as drug withdrawal, as well as the treatment of alcoholism simply happens and introduces into measures that can be implemented through HZZO as one curative measure. So if it's addiction, and it's addiction, as Mrs. Pettir said, it's an ugly habit, it's an ugly habit, but it's primarily an addiction to what the substances that bring addictions were spoken by my predecessor. Therefore, let those who wish to reduce the number of smokers by helping them with a legal provision that they can voluntarily, with the help of how much it costs to cost and what methods it is I would not enter here, but I can clearly put myself on the list of HZZs to reduce the number of smokers. With all this here, even though I say we had a representative of the Croatian Peasant Party, we are still, not touching as much as I see the tobacco industry, nor did we mention that there is an incentive here in our country, agricultural to tobacco farming. So if we are so successful in reducing the number of smokers and the use of tobacco products, who we encourage and who we encourage to produce tobacco in the Republic of Croatia. For export? For someone else? One small question to think about. In any case, given that this law is in line with the law of many countries in Europe, so I think it is even more restrictive than the law in other countries, and it brings and I hope that it will bring benefits, not only that money that we are talking about if we reduce the number of lung cancers and everything else, all other diseases, chronic obstructive lung disease, brain and heart attack and treatment of these diseases, but that it will in any case simply bring one proposal of the law is consistent with European laws. And there's no reason not to support this bill with these remarks I made in this presentation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18724	Thank you. HNS representative club, Mr. Representative Zeljko Vincelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18725	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The proposed law with a view to protecting the health of all citizens lays down measures to reduce and restrict the use of tobacco products, allowed quantities of tar, nicotine and carbon monoxide by cigarette, data and warnings to be found on individual packagings of tobacco products, preventive anti-smoking measures and significantly enhanced control of law enforcement. Furthermore, this proposal for a law is one of the aspects of the harmonisation of domestic legislation with the acquis of the European Union in the field of the use of tobacco products, although its members in different ways and approaches regulate the problem. It follows the need to intensify the implementation of smoking prevention and control measures as the main fugitive health risk factor. Just smoking is listed as a risk factor for three leading groups of causes of death in the Republic of Croatia. Cardiovascular disease, malignancies and respiratory disease. The risk of tobacco consumption and tobacco products for health has been scientifically demonstrated and has contributed significantly to disease and premature death from a series of diseases. As we have heard, the proposed law regulates the ban on smoking in all closed public spaces. Exceptionally, special areas for smokers who cannot occupy more than 20% of the total area can be arranged in catering facilities, but neither food nor drink can be served in them. The owners of cafes and restaurants shall be given six months from the date of its entry into force in order to comply with their operations with the provisions of the law. The smokers will drastically reduce areas where they will be able to smoke, and risk breaking the law awaits them with a fine of 1,000 kuna, and so much will the caterer have to pay, if he is allowed to smoke in an unauthorized place. The protection of citizens' health stands out as the main objective of this law, and therefore wants to reduce the use of tobacco products. But it is unlikely that due to such measures, the number of smokers will become more important, I repeat, more significant. Maybe it's just the average number of their smoked cigarettes. Still, the exposure of non-smoking smokers will be reduced. Non-smokers who wanted not to stay in smoky spaces breathe tobacco smoke, make up a group of so-called "smokers". passive smokers. They are faced with a higher risk of suffering from bronch and lung cancer, although they themselves have never lit a cigarette. There is still a relatively low awareness of the harmful effects of smoking, and there is certainly great support for the implementation of systematic activities in this regard. The measures proposed by this law would be even more acceptable to smokers themselves if that awareness was greater. When we talk about smoking, we have several participants in a number of different interests of smokers, tobacco industry, catering sector, state, non-smoking. Smokers, smoking is a matter of personal choice and human attitude. It can choose whether it will do so and whether it will bear the risks of health disorder or even death by smoking, hardly any anti-smoking measures will have an impact on a significant reduction in the number of smoke addicts. Smoking is not only a habit, passion, addiction, smoking is a scientifically-verified disease with severe consequences for smokers, but also non-smokers and the entire health system. The tobacco industry, satisfied with a profitable one, is not overly burdened by the fact that they are not smoked by the part of the public, because neither anti-propagandic anti-smoking activities, nor additional taxations, nor judgments against them reduce the significant percentage of cigarette users and the profits of the tobacco industry on that human addiction or passion, or disease. Their product is sold well without propaganda, even with a severe antipropaganda. The lack of cigarettes sold will make up for the higher price. The catering sector, most of the problems in law enforcement are expected here. Therefore, it would be appropriate to consider the experiences of other countries and the observations and suggestions made by our host companies in order to prevent economic damage to their business, but also what is likely to happen if nothing changes in the legal proposal, which is to raise the price of catering services. The coffee shop owners say, more often our visitors are smokers. How about coffee without a cigarette? Coffee and cigarettes are like fingers and nails. Croatian hosts themselves say they will not stand in the way of adopting European trends. On the other hand, as the ban on smoking is most likely to damage the catering sector, they seek to fight for a longer transition period and also for the possibility of profiling cafes only for smokers or non-smokers. This suggests that the owners of the cafe up to about 50 square meters would be legally allowed to choose for themselves whether the cafe will be intended for smokers or non-smokers. The example of Germany is given in this regard. In Germany, the law on a complete ban on smoking fell to the Constitutional Court in a section relating to cafes, since the owners of smaller cafes up to 75 square meters are in a discriminatory position towards owners of large-square objects that can certainly adapt and fence for the purposes of smokers and non-smokers. Did the legislator make sure that our caterers could go into a legal battle with the same ending? On the other hand, the argument is that the caterers will have enough time to adjust their facilities to new working conditions, as the smoking ban should take effect sometime in the spring at a time when the terraces on which to be able to smoke are opened. But our continental guests believe that the Dalmatians are in advantage here, because the start and end of their terrace sitting season can't be measured with the one at sea. The caterers believe that the legal solution in which smokers will be in separate boxes where they can only smoke but not consume food and drink will turn them into second-class citizens who will smoke and can stare at the wall dullly. The aim of the law is to protect smoke from those who don't smoke, and non-smokers from them. It's their will and choice they'll give in the smoking room and eat and drink. Smokers have human rights just like non-smokers. Of course the state wants and needs to protect non-smoking rights, but if they are physically separated from smokers, then their rights are not violated. They feel that the law could also encourage the tobacco industry to invest in, for example, closed heated terraces of catering facilities intended for smokers but of course provided they can be eaten and drunk. We are also talking about elite tourism in Croatia. Someone finishes a large and expensive dinner after which they would drink both cognac and smoke a cigar, and then the waiter will tell him, please go out and smoke on the road or into a smoking booth in a restaurant where they can stare at the wall bluntly. The solutions are therefore separate special restaurants for smokers who can enjoy eating, drinking and tobacco. For small cafes, their own decision will be whether the cafe will be for smokers or non-smokers, and for those cafes that have enough room for adjustment and smokers and non-smokers, to allow that food and drink can also be consumed in the smoking section. These legal adjustments would allow all hosts to assess on their own which option they will choose. Although some facilities will be safely closed then because new investments will not be paid. She's justified and apprehensive about their punishment if someone's going to break the Smoking Act. How can a caterer remove an undisciplined guest? He can tell him, don't smoke or please come out. And what if he doesn't want to. Does a caterer have to hire a bouncer if he doesn't want to pay a thousand kuna for every law enforcement officer? It's really not right for a caterer to let anyone in, and then be punished if a guest breaks the rules. The state plays a triple role in which the interests of non-smokers and non-smokers are constantly balanced as well as smokers. She is interested in people smoking because taxation of tobacco products is one of the most significant state revenues of which she does not wish to give up any authority let's be honest. It should also be of interest to her that people don't smoke because the result of smoking cures health care, so she loses the state's register. The role of the state is to protect the interest of its citizens, so those two-thirds who do not smoke and who want repressive measures against smokers in protecting their health and pleasant feeling. But also those one-third who smoke, who want to meet their need, who pay the taxes of the state and who are also voters in the elections, right? Finally, there are those for whom this law is passed by non-smokers. Fortunately, they are still the social majority and the state, regardless of the balance between the tax revenues from smoking and health expenditure due to the disease from smoking, must protect their interest in the public places in the closed areas where they move do not suffer the consequences of someone’s addiction to tobacco. Smoking is not good, smoking is not healthy, smoking is harmful. Everyone knows that, but no country forbids to grow and sell tobacco. We even have incentives. So as long as it benefits it more than damage and so as long as 30 percent of citizens want to smoke a law like this on smoking bans or if you want to do a controlled smoking minimum, the state has to do what it does to protect the interests and health of the majority of its non-smoking population. This law says to smokers: Try hard if you want but at home in your room or in the fresh air, not in closed public spaces where those who do not want to smoke from your cigarette are staying. We fully support this intensities with the request that the proposing be incorporated into the law of provisions that will reconcile the interests of non-smokers, as well as smokers and caterers.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18726	Thank you. SDP representative club Mr Rajko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18727	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues are before us a law that undoubtedly improves the health of our citizens, and therefore, of course, the Club of Representatives of the SDP will support any law of the current government that improves the health of our citizens. But waiting, delaying the past few years has led us to this situation relatively rapid. The predecessor spoke perhaps even hasty decisions. Two, three, two, three versions of the law until we finally got to the Assembly Health Committee last night. Well, there were mistakes. And there was "if," "maybe" like smoking can kill. Our amendment is the Secretary of State, the Government has accepted. Smoking kills and that's a fact. Not "can"; smoking kills. So we won't be hypocritical. Perhaps we can be hypocritical and live in a country that simultaneously grants a subsidy to tobacco farming, which we will talk about later but smoking definitely kills, smoking is harmful and therefore the SDP Club will support all laws that improve the health of these citizens, our citizens. Although we can't change the past, we don't have to go back long, but we remember the good and the bad. What were the good sides? 1974. The Republic of Croatia was the first country, one of the first countries in Europe, a republic in Europe where a smoking ban law was passed. In 1986, the World Non-Smoking School was brought in. Zagreb Non-Smoking School, which has become a global brand. In 1996, counterpart Hebrang said, he was a health minister when he revitalised those actions, again passed the Law on smoking bans at work. But for the last five years, nothing. Nothing. Waiting, delaying and nothing. And that's not good. And that's why I had a young pregnant woman in my office three days ago 18 and a half years ago, and she's healthy, and she's healthy. For 18 and a half years, she came for nausea, you know what "Emesis gravidarum" is. She came to me for nausea, for pregnancy, and she told me in her history when I saw that she was healthy. I ask her habits, and habits are harmful habits: alcohol, smoking cigarettes and so on, right? She says, "Yes, I smoke." 18 and a half years pregnant. I say, "Well, do you know the harmfulness of smoking?" "Well, you know smoking is a lifestyle." "And do you know about the harmfulness of smoking?" And then I told her everything that could happen to the child. Her conclusion disappointed me, surprised me not, but disappointed me. "Hm, on the other hand great. That way, I won't have a big belly and I won't get a stretcher." Because I said to her, "The child will lag behind in growth. She will be a small child." She is a girl, 18 and a half years old. She said to me: “Great. That way I won't have a big belly and I won't get a stretcher." It's all our fault. It's the state's fault because there's no education. There's no health care. We don't go to school, we don't go to colleges, we don't go to colleges, we don't go to colleges, we don't go to colleges, we don't go to colleges, we don't go to colleges, we And that's why she started smoking when she was 15. He's 18 and a half now. Unbelievable! In fact, it's amazing that in the 21st century I hear such a response from a healthy woman. Or I heard yesterday on the board the old one: "Yo, I have a doo who smoked and experienced 100th." So this is a very clear defense mechanism, irrational rationalization to use medical concepts that is familiar. All those who are in some way addicts and smoking is by international classification addiction. They have defense mechanisms. That's why, on Monday, this pregnant woman of mine came to me because she hadn't heard anything for the last five years. I've Googled what's been the last five years, and the last five years have, of course, been celebrated five times World Non-Smoking Day and there have been 10 more round tables and symposiums that lasted one to two actions. We had public health actions. My colleague Hebrang spoke on the videos, but you had a great opportunity. Unfortunately, there is no Minister of our Milinovic, and he and his predecessor had a great opportunity to continue those actions from 2002, 2003. Remember those videos on public television and other TVs. All of those and perhaps harsh initially harsh displays of diseases that may have initially scared our people but eventually understood what it was about. But no! You didn't want it, you didn't know. There was money, there was money. The state budget has been growing for the last five years extremely much. More than we want. So, about the money, I think there was money. Well, maybe you didn't want to, maybe you didn't stop, and about the interesting lobbyes, I hope there wasn't a clue. And so I insist and please continue, or revitalize the public health actions we had five, six years ago, so that pregnant women from 18 and a half years ago don't come into our offices and give our doctors answers like the lady told me five days ago. So, how small our education is and how small our citizens' awareness may be, perhaps, speak only two, the next two figures. A survey of 11 European countries. Even 96% of Croatian citizens who smoke believe smoking is a lifestyle and habit. So life styles, not addiction, and that's basically... The disease, i.e. every third high school student, in the Republic of Croatia smokes and colleague Hebrang said that this increase in the last 5 years is amazing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 4% more girls smoke 5% of boys. I, as a scientist, draw the conclusion why? Was it an action? Did you stop in 2003? You've continued one great opportunity. She came to you, she was served. All you had to do was keep going. And don't let that percentage happen to every third citizen, a high school student, smoke. Please introduce a final health education. If you don't have a program, and... You probably don't have it. Take ours. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I didn't ask President Milanovic, but we'll give you our security program. Security is a 9-letter word, 9-letter nine wholes. Every letter, one whole. And they're habits. So, a program that points to high school and elementary school that is harmful to habits. Which means drinking alcohol, which means smoking too much. The letter “S” is traffic safety, and the letter “S”, the second letter “S” is sexual education. A pregnant woman five days ago, so she didn't know what harmful habits were. She gave me the answer she gave, and for the last four years she's been in high school five years ago in eighth grade. She didn't hear, because there's no health care, no sexual education, no safety. I'm not talking about security now, what's been going on the last few days on Croatian streets, months. I am talking about security, because the Croatian Parliament and the Government must take care of the safety of our citizens and of our health. The fact is, I'm going to quote to my colleague Hebrang again that every eight seconds a person dies from smoking-related diseases all over the world. But it's worse for me, worse for me, the next fact that every eight seconds, one new person burns a cigarette for the first time in his life. Every eight seconds we have a new potential smoker. It's amazing, and we live in a country where there's no health care, that we're not talking about the harmfulness of smoking, where there's not a single public-health action except for a dozen of them when it's celebrating World Non-Smoking Day like it was World Hand Laundering Day 3 days ago. Irrelevant. Five experts, 10 experts. But you have to go to the citizens of the government, you have to go through public schools and teachers via electronic or written media to send a message, not a ban, because it is the easiest thing to forbid, but to educate, enlighten our citizens, not to prohibit something, but to point out the harmfulness of something so that they can draw conclusions. That's the point of the administration. So every eight seconds, one person burns a cigarette for the first time in his life. So, any better education, if we continued and didn't pick up where we started seven, eight years ago today, there would undoubtedly be less morbidity, less mortality and less disability for our citizens due to smoking-related diseases. A colleague, Petir, compared, said accurate data that countries that banned smoking, or better to say, indicated the harmfulness of smoking, shows that all the diseases leading to smoking changed believe or not, changed the pathology of some diseases. In other words, some diseases have completely disappeared or disappeared. Unfortunately, some others have come. In the '80s, America and we began in the same positions. Remember, I said a little while ago. We introduced the first Zagreb school of non-smoking. They may even have accepted me not to guarantee it, but they continued for 20 years there in their school of bans, i.e. indications of harmfulness. Unfortunately not today, and I'm a gastroenterologist of the following situation. The secretary of state is my colleague with Rebra and the surgeon, and we're dealing with the same diseases, so he knows very well. Today is the next situation with oesophageal cancer. In Croatia 90% of citizens with oesophageal cancer have so-called plano cellular cancer, cancer associated with smoking and harmful habits, 90%. In the U.S., the plan of the cellulary was almost gone, below 20%. So, one public-health action, enlightenment, continuous and permanent education like Blair said education, education, education, some diseases are gone. We don't need new CTs, magnets, linear accelerators. They don't need to, but the cause, the trigger, the incentive to create these diseases disappeared by a simple public-health action. And that's why there's no such disease today, they're gone, plano cellular oesophageal cancer. We have each of the 190. While in regulated countries, and as you know that Croatia should finally become an orderly state and that we belong to the countries of the European Union there are no more diseases, and today in Croatia colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, today in Zagreb 10 million cigarettes will be smoked, today in Zagreb, 10, I see that the change, 10 million cigarettes will be smoked today from which 140 kg of tar will be created, which is 51 tonnes of tar from which exactly 400 square meters of asphalt road can be made. So, colleagues and colleagues, state secretary, the SDP club will also support this law because it improves the health of our citizens. We urge you to enter the schools with health care. If you do not have prepared programs we are standing a security program where it indicates, among other things, harmful habits are available to you. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18728	Thank you. Yeah, well, if that were the case, a lot of health workers wouldn't smoke and smoke, and he knows what it is. So a little education, a little ban, that's the only thing that's effective. We're moving on with the club debate. On behalf of the IDS club, distinguished representative Marin Brkarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18729	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the IDS Club, I will say that we will support this bill which is before us as much as it is based on the law that passed this Croatian Parliament unanimously in March of the month on the confirmation of the World Convention of the World Health Organization, and all in order to protect health and prevention, i.e. to combat the use of tobacco and tobacco products. Certainly what has already been said, this is also the operationalisation of the European Parliament's directive and it is clear that, to say the same thing, we are obliged to pass one such law. But what I would personally like to say is, first of all, what Dr. Ostojić said before me, preventive measures against smoking. Here, as can be seen from this proposal for a preventive measure, are at the end of the law under point 4, meaning before the criminal provisions themselves, and I personally think it would be necessary and necessary for the prevention to be said in the very opening part of the law, because the fact is that this prevention regulated by the law is only regulated by 3 articles and that, above all, measures will be taken to promote the use of tobacco products in educational, educational, or educational institutions and will be subsequently appointed by the National Anti-Smoking Commission. I think it would be necessary for prevention to be in itself, so to speak to the opening part of the law itself, and to point to all the harmfulities and risks of smoking, i.e. the dependence on tobacco products, to this intensity of young people in educational institutions. So I still believe that this draft law, which is in an emergency procedure, can be partially updated, upgraded, and precisely by measures, or articles of the law that will be more precise, more qualitatively talked about public health measures that are necessary, I would say in educational and educational institutions in our system in order to point to the very youngest of all the harmfulities of smoking, and thus certainly contribute to a more quality life, i.e. the health of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. What I would like to add is that we have certainly received proposals from the Chamber of craftsmen, which are also addressed to the President of the Assembly and the chairmans of the Committee for a different approach, i.e. to postpone the deadline provided for in this law of 6 months for the harmonisation of the terms themselves, means the space where tobacco products can be consumed, so that, here, it would also be worth considering the solutions that are here, so to say based on the experiences of other European countries from Germany, Spain and others that have imposed a ban on smoking and taxation, so that we may also have cheaper and more quality ways and technical separation and other opportunities that would not discriminate against objects, because it is certainly clear that up to 50 square meters if they are working in cafes, they will not be able to meet the condition that they have 20% of space that they will be closed with all the necessary systems that are legally provided and possibly be used as a means for smoking. Here, therefore, on the one hand, I advocate a prevention that should be more significantly highlighted in this law and certainly I would place it at the beginning of the law itself in front of the ban. First of all, I would point to prevention, and on the other hand, I would certainly consider these opportunities based on the experience of other European countries in terms of the area intended for smokers in catering facilities, and on the other hand on those catering facilities that have smaller squares to find ways to do not, so to say discriminate against the owners of these facilities, I say everything in the interest above all and the protection of non-smokers. Here are some suggestions that we will adopt the law, and I believe that in some part, it will still improve until the vote itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18730	Thank you. And I shall inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure expired time to report a debate of 10 minutes at 12 hours and 1 minute. We're done discussing clubs. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is the distinguished representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18731	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. After reading the bill and all arguments of arguments and data given in it as well as these discussions, I asked myself why do we not introduce complete tobacco prohibition in Croatia? All the arguments that have been made are correct, I'm not contesting, I'm not going into debate whether enough has been done in education so far. I belong to that group of citizens of this country who are not sufficiently educated, so I am a smoker and the state is sending a message that it wants to worry about the health of its citizens. It sends a message of smoking to contain, reduce, ban. Whether smokers or not, smoke or not for ultrasound tests will still wait 2, 3, 4 months, where. Magnetic resonance of 6, 7, 8 months, CT 4, 5, and there are clinical laboratories where they are waiting for 2, 3 and 4 months, especially if there are no similar reagents. So when we talk about state speed, about the health of the nation, then it's not enough to talk about just that part of one harmful habit, but as a whole about the health system, and we're going to continue with the practice that medical mistakes will be only further complications and nothing else. But is the proposer of this bill sincere in the claim that he wants to curb tobacco use? The first dilemma that made me think about this is also the fact that according to the information from the reply I received from the competent minister, last year from the state tobacco growing budget, there was an incentive for 1426 agricultural economies of 71 million. How come we encourage tobacco production from the state budget with as much as 71 million kunas, which on the same day or second day, or when it comes from the field to the factory and to the citizens, we declare such a great evil. Does this bill mean that the Ministry of Health will appeal to the Minister of Agriculture to lift incentives for tobacco production or that they will eventually remain but only for quantities of exports and tobacco exporting producers. As long as the state encourages tobacco production through a state budget, I cannot and do not want to believe the sincere intentions of fighting for the reduction or eradication of smoking habits and tobacco use. The second dilemma is also related to the official data that last year, and it was given to me by the finance minister, from the title of special taxes on tobacco products, for the state budget of 2 billion 943 million kunas, so 3 billion. If the correct information is that health care also has a spending of 3 billion to treat the disease as a result of smoking, then it turns out that smokers still finance themselves in the treatment. Obviously, someone knew that, so he set the tax policy to make as much income as the cost, but there's another problem. In the light of the law in the section, the financial means necessary for its implementation states that 240 thousand are provided in the budget for this 2008 and that the next 2009 budget for the purpose of implementing this law will be 260 thousand, the purpose of which is a little more sought but from the budget of 260 thousand. If, therefore, the aim of the law is to reduce the use of tobacco and the number of smokers, I suppose then the revenue side of the specific tax budget will be less, that there will be no more 3 billion than that. But we'll see soon enough when the draft state budget comes next year, whether Minister Shucker plans to cut revenue from tobacco tax or remains the same. It will be a confession that the effects of this law will not be. If there are going to be effects, then that item must be smaller or answer the question of where the difference of those funds will be raised. If the number of smokers decreases to 15% of the population, this means that a billion and a half annually will be less revenue from that title. I will support this bill not because I believe that the bans and sanctions provided for in it will give effect but only because of the part that put smokers in the protection of non-smokers from us, although I am convinced that there will still be a lot of smokers who are educated and conscious, who will continue to enter the smoking areas. Indeed, non-smokers have the right to receive state protection to protect them from tobacco smoke and smoke in public rooms, public services, health institutions, and all others where they by nature must be protected from tobacco smoke and smokers. But this does not mean that we must and the government must remain deaf to warnings that a large part of the economic activity depends on it and accept the solutions that some countries had to make after the rulings of constitutional courts, so that they do not discriminate on economic operators in catering and tourism and allow them, but also the guests to choose. If someone wants to get into a bar or a restaurant where smoking is allowed, it's his choice. If the bar door says it's for non-smoking people only, that's where the smoker won't go in. If it says it's for smokers, then smokers will go in there, especially if the owner works in that cafe or the facility, and there are no employees, which is the problem. So, in the exaggerated desire to prove the follow-up of European trends again, we want to be more papal than the Pope and introduce more rigorous provisions than those that exist in Europe, for which there is no reason or justification, and you will see that in a few months, this law will also have to experience certain changes in terms of liberating restrictions as it was with 0.0 prominence. But I repeat, in the desire that citizens who do not smoke, who do not want to be exposed to the risk of smoking and tobacco smoke, we provide such protection, I will vote for this law against my own interest if I can say it personally, but the results will not be as far as in America are not from what the representatives of the government and also from fellow Hebrang here declared. The Americans themselves acknowledge how much they have saved to treat the effects of tobacco, twice as much as they are now using or spending on the treatment of obesity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18732	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18733	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. My dear colleague, I have a replica of your exposure. I absolutely agree with your view that the ban on smoking as proposed by this law will certainly not contribute to that goal that has been introduced into the law and passed, and that this will be a concern for the better health of all our citizens. I agree that, and don't worry, the ban won't affect, not a single ban, and neither will this one affect the reduction of tobacco consumption and the lack of money in the budget. The money will still be, that's what I'm telling you. And I agree with you that it would be necessary to take care of 40%, not 30%, 40% of Croatian citizens still smoke and they should also be taken care of, so I agree with you that it would be necessary in cafes, in restaurants to place a brand for smokers, and the non-smokers should then be tolerated so that they do not enter those smoky areas. And when we talk about public health care or health care, it is also necessary to ban perhaps a refinery in Sisak, because there we breathe bad air that is bad air for everyone, not just for smokers and non-smokers. But that hasn't occurred to us yet, because we don't worry about that segment very much. So I think that this law is too radical and that 40% of those Croatian citizens who smoke and smoke should be respected anyway. I assure you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18734	Thank you. Just to clarify, there are very strict rules for air cleanness that are measured and monitored so that there is a certain concern about air cleanness, and so in this sense it should continue. We have a response to the replica. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18735	Comrade Denon, we really agree, and in time we warn that using pre-radical methods and even for reasons of honesty, if we believe in this moment, there will be no effects that the Government in the explanation and these discussions indicate and that it will actually return to the situation that we will normally have a rigorous protection of non-smokers from smokers, and in life is a different situation but with economic consequences. Therefore, and it is not too late, I appeal to the promoters to really understand that the possibility of selecting and protecting non-smokings from smokers exists in a way that especially in the hospitality of locals and spaces declares themselves to be whose and which function of purpose they are. And believe me, there is no government in any country that can care more about human health than I am human. Therefore, even this ban message does not make sense if at least the money envisaged for the implementation of this law in a triple amount will not be used for the system of education in the school system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18736	Thank you. It is Mr. Representative Stjepan Kundić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18737	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I'm one of those 70% lucky people who doesn't smoke. I think I'm proud of my status, but I'd rather be part of my family that's not exactly in the same situation as I'm looking at this transmission, not because of me, but because of the extraordinary exposure of my colleagues, Professor Hebrang, Ostojić and other and quality discussions and Mr. Secretary, who pointed out these harmfulities. Namely, Directive 2001/37 of the European Parliament and of the Council proposed by law prohibits the production and transport of cigarettes containing more than 10 milligrams of tar per cigarette, 1 milligrams of nicotine per cigarette, 10 milligrams of carbon monoxide per cigarette. Furthermore, under Directive 2001/37, the proposed law specifies the content of the data and general and additional warnings which must contain each individual packaging of the tobacco product. Since no one has said anything about it today, somehow I feel the need to fill this debate with this very legal technical moment that will have to be respected. So, every single package of tobacco products in traffic, other than tobacco for oral use and other non-smoking tobacco products, must have printed one of the following warnings: "Smoking kills", "Smoking seriously harms you and others around you". The general warning must be printed on the front of the individual pack of tobacco products and must cover at least 30% of the outer surface of the individual packaging. Any individual packaging of tobacco products in transport, other than tobacco for oral use and other non-smoking tobacco products, must be printed with one of the following warnings. I think it's good to repeat them: "Smokers die younger", "Smoking causes an artery blockage, causes a heart attack", "Smoking causes lung cancer", "Smoking in pregnancy hurts your child", "Protect children from the breath of your cigarette smoke", "Your doctor and pharmacist can help you stop smoking", "Smoking creates a marked addiction, don't even start", "Smoking reduces the risk of death or pulmonary disease", "Smoking can cause slow and painful death", "Smoking can cause slow and painful death", "Search for help to stop smoking, advise with your doctor", "Smoking can slow down blood flow and cause impotence", "Smoking can cause skin ageing", "Smoking can damage sperm and reduce fertility, these contain benzene, nitrosamines, formide and carbon dioxide." The additional warning shall cover at least 40% of the outer surface of the rear of the individual packaging of the tobacco product. Thus, this law also proposes sponsoring events, activities or individuals with the aim and effect or possible impact of direct or indirect promotion of tobacco products and tobacco use. We had an extensive debate that lasted almost an hour and a half on the Health Committee where a television show was highlighted that I'm not going to print a commercial now, which really shows that these people living in a closed area and smoking, which is certainly unacceptable. All that is said, what has been said about organ damage, I think it is necessary to accept and say in the end only that 240 thousand 380 kuna has been provided for the implementation of the proposed law in the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008. In order to carry out the activities in 2009 and 2010, it is necessary to provide for a million kuna, of which 260 thousand from the state budget and the rest from income to happiness. Thank you very much. HDZ will support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18738	Thank you. Mrs. Brankica Crlenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18739	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Smoking, which is nicotine, is not just the pleasure and attitude of free choice because nicotine is sophisticated and the most powerful of all drugs. It's addictive. Smoking is a disease, and smokers are addicts. Today, 75 different diseases that occur as a result of the use of nicotine have been demonstrated and described, not just in the old age, which is a false belief. Young people and women are getting more and more hurt. Even lighter or passive smokers cheat if they think they are not threatened because smoking does not hurt, and they consider it a pleasure. The tobacco industry has supplied a cigarette with nicotine at an exact dose of 1 milligram, and that when you light a cigarette, the desire goes away, but after a while it grows again when the levels of nicotine in the blood fall and thus keeps you dependent permanently. That's why you can't stop. In history after Columbus brought tobacco from America's tobacco facility to Europe, it was forbidden to use it. So is Pope Urban VIII. Sentencing smokers by excommunication, Murat IV. He threatened smokers with death penalty, and Louis XIII threatened smokers with death penalty. In France, he banned smoking, and he configured the property for smokers. However, despite all the bans and measures, smoking continued. The ban measures have proved unsuccessful. How to launch its own forces when, for centuries, the fight against smoking has been fought with the same passion that people smoke and the decision to stop smoking is determined and permanent. It's certainly the most important decision of the smokers. The master of his will is also the master of his health. It's the only way to stop smoking with drinking water instead of cigarettes. And it's never too late. And after a few months of stopping, the organism recovers as if you've never smoked. Statistics show that smoking starts at school age, and the question is, why do young people smoke? Most often, they start smoking by imitating older ones and adults, and they are the ones who should be an example to their children. Parents are very important in the lives of young ones as their breeders or at least experienced people to learn about the trials that today provides for us. Many parents do not know what is happening to their adolescent because of jobs that require absence from home or family. Don’t have more time or time for conversations, changes in everyday experiences, but give your dear and obedient child a allowance or any form of monetary compensation that it will invest in various harmful means most often not knowing enough about their destructive properties. After that, the parent himself wondered, what he was wrong, that his child had failed or had no questions, because the parent was not familiar with the life and events of his child. In order to avoid further increase in the number of adolescents smokers, different home bans and similar strict measures and pressures, no key solutions are needed. A parent’s presence in bringing up frequent conversations will be much more effective, for this is how we direct a child into real life, not by straining him, but by directing him into life. In most developed and highly civilized countries, it is forbidden to sell cigarettes to children and adolescents as well as alcoholic beverages. So in Croatia, but it is a questionable exercise. Therefore, one of the important tasks in us is to introduce an energetic ban on selling cigarettes to children and adolescents as well as to develop a system of sanctions in the event of violations of these provisions. The purpose of the proposed law is to establish measures to reduce and limit the use of tobacco products, harmful ingredients of cigarettes and mandatory labelling on tobacco packaging, as well as preventive anti-smoking measures, in order to protect citizens' health. Smoking peer pressure has been identified as an important factor affecting the creation of smoking habits among young people. Risky groups to start smoking are especially children who feel insecure, unacceptable, insolent in a parent home. So the child eagerly accepts every opportunity to make a close friendship with someone who understands him. If that someone is a smoker, then there's a good chance they'll blow it too. Young people who smoke usually do so with friends and smoking for them is a social desirable activity. On the other hand, most young people who do not smoke have the most friends among non - smokers. That is why young people need to be helped to develop self - confidence and gain a sense of personal value and self - respect, and to teach them how to resist peer pressure. That's where parents come in first and foremost. However, parents often confuse their children, acting in one way, such as smoking, and requiring different behavior from children. Then it's a double message the child receives and which child confuses. Family school influences more than any subsequent school, since in a family school, a child learns at the earliest age, acquires knowledge, creates habits and attitudes toward health. Young people who do not smoke believe that smoking bothers them and negatively affects their health. Studies have shown that young people who smoke almost know nothing about health risks of smoking or do not associate them with themselves and their smoking. Hence, it is important to emphasize constantly among young people, not only the effects of smoking, but also the benefits of non - smoking. And who else will, if not parents, raisers, teachers and social workers, whose influence is most important. After all the aspects listed, we can conclude that everything depends on man himself, his attitude, his society, his parents, or his breeders. It is necessary to practice a conversation with the child, not a child’s response. Many parents have failed to master the skills of listening to a child. They think they're there to talk, and the child is what needs to be heard. Because of such procedures, I must stress very primitive in principle children do not have the sufficient personal value needed to resist the pressures imposed on them by society. And in the end, everything actually depends on the rest of the non-smokers or those who care, and it must be important to all of us, to think of young people, to raise non-smokers, and I will certainly support the adoption of this law in addition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18740	Thank you very much. We have one replica of Mr. Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18741	Thank you. If it is concluded from most of the discussions so far, everyone is pushing for a healthy life, clean air, healthy air, and it is said that smokers pollute the air, so suffer passive smokers etc. And can anyone, in the context of these facts, explain this absurdity to me? Gas cars pollute the air six times less, but that's why they pay for the registration of 500 kuna more. How do you explain that? In the context of this whole public appeal for health, for clean air, and now we punish those who, for example, have gas cars. It would be the same as introducing a non-smoking tax, and we're talking anti-smoking.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18742	It's good. Well, then we'll have to stand up and make it right. Thank you very much. It's Mr. Boris Kunst's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18743	The Honorable President, State Secretary, fellow MPs, and the proposed law is in any case positive and should be supported in any case. Not only do we support him, but we are aware that the harmfulness of smoking is great, but also because of our future. Because of new generations that shouldn't be poisoned by anything that unfortunately we are already today. I believe you know that by international classification smoking is a disease that is classified in the category of mental disorders. If that's what to believe, if that's what it is, then today in Croatia about 1.2 million are mentally disturbed because so many people smoke and a quarter of them live in Zagreb. In addition to people’s threatened health and diseases caused by smoking, not to mention the mortality that is moving somewhere around 10 to 11 thousand people a year, smoking also significantly damages Croatia’s economy. At an annual level of about 6 and a half billion kuna from Croatia, it goes into smoke or rather smoke from Croatia. And our tax-based budget on tobacco processing picks up nearly 3 billion kuna. The amount of damage done to the economy simply comes from those 1.2 million smokers, as much as it is registered in Croatia today, Circa 500, 550 thousand people smoke and according to statistical indicators, they spend an average of 34 days a year, which is lost at an annual level of around 19.2 million working days. In Croatia today, it smokes 34% of men and 26.6% of women, which must be devastating, and in particular I think of women. Although I don't normally approve of men smoking. The fact is that we smoke less than in Hungary where 53% of men smoke and 30.4% of women or Russia where 63% of men and 9.7% of women smoke, which certainly cannot be our comfort. I therefore welcome the insistence of this law that will certainly affect the reduction of the number of smokers and the launch of the quitting action, especially the protection of children, youth, women, in view of the consequences and the interesting information of the University of Pittsburgh, which I was thinking earlier that women are much harder to quit than men because they are more sensitive to smoking incentives. And the health of women especially pregnant must be more fragile than men. I think there's been a lot of talk about that. So once again, I support this law, and we must all contribute together that our future means our children commit themselves to a healthy life, not to lose their health by smoking and using drugs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18744	Thank you very much. Mrs. Representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18745	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Nicotine is the number one drug in Croatia right now. Why drugs? Because the biggest delusion of smokers is that smoking can be controlled at will, so stop smoking without a problem. You can't. The addiction to nicotine is extremely strong, and by intensity, it's only slightly weaker than heroin addiction. And why did I say that nicotine's drug was number one? Because on 4 and a half million inhabitants in Croatia, we have almost 1 and a half million tobacco addicts, with about 36% of men and 32% of women. It worries that the percentage of smokers in Croatia does not decrease as is the case in other more developed countries where actually smokers become second-class citizens. In Croatia, the percentage of smokers grow especially women, we have heard this already so that they are almost equal with men. But certainly what is most dramatic throughout this story is that in Croatia it starts smoking all the sooner and later, then, at the younger age of life. Tobacco addicts usually stop smoking when they experience a heart attack, stroke, lung cancer or very often death because smoking is a risk factor for three leading death groups in Croatia. So cardiovascular diseases, malignancies and respiratory system diseases, and in total mortality, participate with more than 80%, and that took more than 200 thousand years of life too early. Croatia is in an infamous high place, i.e. at the top of the world and by the consumption of tobacco. Namely, every Croatian citizen and smoker and that theoretical non-smoker on average smokes about 105 packs of cigarettes annually, and that is indeed what we will say under quotes a respectable figure. If we multiply these 105 cartons of cigarettes with 4 and a half million inhabitants and the average price of the box, we get to end up in a toxic smoke of about a billion kuna. Imagine how many school buildings, gyms, new hospital beds and so on. Unfortunately, that's not the scariest thing. The worst part is that some 14,000 people die annually as a result of nicotine, and that is one smaller, whole smaller city. Tobacco smoke is the second most common cause of exposure to carcinogens. The first is as we know the sun's radiation. Sadly, it is not only harmful to smokers but also to non - smokers or passive smokers. Non-smoking people who live with smokers, for example, have a 20% to 30% higher risk of lung cancer, a double risk of loss of vision at an older age, and the risk of heart disease is only slightly lower than that of smokers. Incomparably, the state's higher spending on its citizens' long-term income from tobacco tax has been incomparable, and Professor Hebrang spoke of it very clearly. There are also damages from fires in forests, in apartments, in public spaces caused by reckless smokers. Do you know that 19% of all major fires in Croatia are caused by cigarette fires. There they were both killed and injured, as well as material damage in car accidents, as smokers cause twice as many non-smoking accidents. Finally, the anti-demographic effect of smoking should not be ignored. Smoking negatively affects reproductive health, both men and women. With home, the main point of exposure to the harmful influence of tobacco smoke is the workplace and then the public spaces. The illustrations for example, the quadruple exposure to smoke in the discotheque is as if you lived with a smoker for a month. The purpose of this legislative proposal is to set out measures to reduce and limit the use of tobacco products, harmful ingredients of cigarettes and mandatory labelling on the packaging of tobacco products, as well as preventive anti-smoking measures, and to welcome the establishment of the National Anti-Smoking Commission, with a view to protecting the health of Croatian citizens, so above all, non-smokers. It is obvious that just believing that smoking is harmful ceases to be productive and that is what my colleague Ostojić spoke of very nicely. The most correct path is to educate with objective data on proven effects of smoking. So, education in the family is best with a positive example of parents, kindergarten and school education, at all levels of regular education. Because the most important thing is not to start smoking. In one word, therefore, education in the function of prevention and therefore preventive anti-smoking measures are, in fact, the best part of this bill is the more planned and concrete resources in the state budget for their implementation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18746	Thank you. Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18747	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. In March of this year, when we discussed the confirmation of the World Health Organization Convention, of course and legally confirmed, then we heard as much as today the devastating data about smoking that is necessary for this occasion to be repeated and which many have repeated today, but in any case 5 million died annually in the world due to the consequences of smoking. In our country, 13,000, out of 10,000 active smokers, 3,000 passive smokers. 3 billion costs in the health system would really help to consolidate the health system. Furthermore, 10% higher use of smoker disease. And that's an important moment, because in that part too, we're one of the stronger ones in Europe. And those two liters of tobacco smoke that are created when each cigarette is smoked, with 4,000 chemical elements of which are the most famous nitrogen and carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, those that cause bronch cancer, since the frequency of bronch cancer is mentioned today in smokers is pronounced and large. Of course, the passive smoking mentioned. So 30% can also be more exposed to bronch cancer by passive smokers who do not wish for themselves are in such a situation and cardiovascular broncho obstructive. Furthermore, small children, also mentioned today, have more frequent pneumonia, respiratory diseases and broncho obstructive etc. and inflammation of the ear and all that and of course the pregnant women who were speaking to the fellow Ostojić. Indeed, in these circumstances, it is especially necessary to welcome the enthusiasm of many people who are making unmistakable efforts to educate people in order to help them in this area, so let us mention the school of folk health of Andrija Stampar, who these days celebrate the honorable jubilee that the school of non-smoking has formed. A number of instructors at that non-smoking school came out. But here, this percentage is 27 and a half percent hard to go down. Of course, there's been a legal attempt in that section since '96. This labour law where smoking is banned in the workplace. In '99, 2000, all of this was said today not to repeat and, of course, to confirm this framework convention, so in March this year, where it is said that, with regard to restricting the use of tobacco products, a law must be passed that will limit it. And here's this law before us that will certainly improve that area with all the measures that have been said. So, general those warnings, extra warnings, no smoking. But the public's particular attention is certainly focused that this law will only determine that the smoking ban is being regulated in all closed public spaces, and under public spaces means space intended for a common stay, and even the courtyards of schools and courtyards of hospitals, etc. All of this proposal is set out. So this law will create one framework, but of course you need to make it operational, and in that part we need all of us. We all need help. Of course, there will be an inspection that needs to be mentioned. So far, sanitary inspectors have only been able to do that part of the job. Now there will be five inspectors who will be able to monitor that part and I certainly believe it will contribute, but of course with the support of all of us. Well, here we are today, in some ways regretting that some of our colleagues are in this House of Highs, in some ways, advocacy. But here in that part I believe that surely this law will contribute to the improvement of health and what its purpose is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18748	Thank you. We have one replica, Mrs. Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18749	Dear Mr. President, dear colleague Milinkovic. I absolutely agree with the great majority of your discussion, especially the intensity you wanted to say in your discussion. But I want to take this opportunity to say one thing so I don't get the wrong impression here. An absolute ban on smoking in schools, in health institutions, as well as in schoolyards, health institutions. There has been a ban on the sale of cigarettes in the workplaces, tobacco products to minors so far, a warning on cigarettes boxes and things like that. So it's not that the law will solve anything. He brings here a new detail relating to cafes, these catering facilities, and if we had a certain regulation that was not respected at all. So, besides these measures of education in some way and enlightenment, I think you'll have to do a lot more by, so not just sanitary inspections but all of these other services. Because here, personally, I had opportunities a few years ago to ask a representative question and ask how many people were punished for selling cigarettes to minors. No one in the state, and the law has been in force for ten years. So I think we need to be aware of that when we pass this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18750	Thank you. Mr. Milinkovic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18751	Mr. President, I'd like to agree with my colleague for the most part, of course, on education, etc. But I was saying under public space are considered spaces you and you. I wasn't talking about an absolute ban. So, absolutely in that part I want to replicate to my colleague. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18752	Thank you. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18753	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, there's a lot of hypocrisy in this proposed law. The speakers so far have mostly talked about tobacco harmfulness, and these discussions are as accurate, as missed by the law in question. Does smoking hurt? It hurts, so we all know that. Is there any use for smoking? Is smoking any use? No, but nothing at all. Is that an ugly and completely unnecessary habit? Yes, it is. Well, that's what we all agree on. But is smoking just a habit, an ugly habit, or is it smoking and a disease? There, Dr. Hebrang says the World Health Organization has defined smoking as a disease. It's an addiction and it's a very strong addiction. There's a lot of smokers who want to get rid of smoking and they'd be happy to do it, but I can't. Addiction is stronger than they are, than their will to stop that habit. They don't make it. We have treatment programs for addictions and drugs, the treatment of alcoholism. I'm asking if we have a serious medical program to treat this addiction? Not that I know of. Do we have a specialized facility? We don't. In this area, various charlatans who then take money from smokers because of some alleged hypnosis, I don't know what helps them get rid of smoking. In his discussion, Dr. Hebrang explained about how this system of addiction works, that there is a brain center that encourages the secretion of dopamine, which once again creates a sense of pleasure in smokers, and that is why a somatic disorder is his medical explanation. I have heard that in America they have produced a medicine that works on that receptor in the brain and that then and after taking nicotine prevents the secretion of dopamine and prevents that feeling of comfort and thus significantly helps smokers to... /The speaker is turned off and turned back on./... I ask if HZZO will classify this drug? Will he get it? Will he be included in one of his lists and thus encourage a therapeutic approach to this problem if we agree that it is a disease rather than just an ugly habit? Because look, if it's a disease, then it's very difficult to stop the disease from being banned. And obesity causes, excessive body weight causes a whole series of cardiovascular diseases, strokes, brain, heart rate, right? So will we, as we have here in this case, experience that the producers of the dried-meat product on bacon write "salt kills"? Because logic is the same. And there's spending money to treat the effects of excessive weight. We say you need to protect non-smokings from smokers and that's justified. This is justified because non-smokers must not suffer because part of the citizens, their citizens, have created this ugly and dangerous habit. But wouldn't we do so in this law if, as some have suggested, that catering facilities, owners of catering facilities themselves decide whether these facilities will be for non-smoking or for smokers? To ban smokers from entering non-smoking catering facilities and, of course, smoking there? People could define themselves and non-smokings would be protected. So it can be determined that those who are for smokers pay higher taxes. Why not? So let the smokers finance it. But I don't think this ban is supposed to lead to another one, but your smokers will stop going to restaurants and cafes. They won't stop smoking. They'll just stop going to those restaurants because they won't care anymore. It would be a segregation of smokers in some way, a separation from non-smoking populations. But also respecting that it's about addiction, about a disease that's not so easy and not so easy to get rid of. I'm saying there's a lot of hypocrisy here because now, because on a pack of cigarettes, that's what it's been up to now, it says how many milligrams of monoxide in each cigarette. How many monoxides are there in the exhaust gases of a liter of burned gasoline? Where does that say? Where does that come from? Why would one monoxide be more harmful now than another monoxide? Or what Jurjevic warned about, and why do those who drive on gas pay more than those who drive on gasoline registration, 500 kn, and less poison the air than those who drive on gasoline? There's a lot of hypocrisy, and in what we say, it's going to say, "Smoking kills." Indeed, if it is true that smoking kills, then it is necessary to prohibit the production and sale of tobacco products because it is only logical and consequential. Well, that nicotine to be like the other one, you can get it on an illegal market, but you can't buy it in public. Yeah, well, then you can't make one killer and sell it legally. Yeah, but look, it's not in the state's interest. It is in the interest of the State to take taxes from the tobacco industry, to take taxes from the sale of tobacco products, and to act extremely hypocritically. I think the biggest problem is adolescents. This information that Dr. Hebrang presented is startling. That 5% of adolescent boys and 4% of adolescent girls smoke more over the last 5 years. That's a really scary piece of information. And is this law a good means to change that? The tax is collected 3 billion kuna, we heard from the tobacco industry. And why isn't that 3 billion kuna heading towards education? You know how he's educated in elementary school against all addictions, alcoholism, drugs, tobacco? Half a page of the textbook in one hour. I think it's in the fifth grade of elementary school. One class. Why don't we have health care? Why don't we educate on all eight years of primary school, all four classes of high school? Because then we would have the right to say that we care that adolescents do not create an ugly and dangerous habit. But as long as it's gone, and it's gone, then it's hypocritical to think and interpret that we're going to reduce that phenomenon in adolescents by law like this. That's not true first. And secondly, we wash our hands like Pilate. We've passed the law, and, dear God, now that young people are smoking more and more, and what we can do now, we've passed the law. This law will not fulfill that purpose, and this purpose should be our first goal, to prevent new smokers from being created in young people, not making it difficult, to make life worse for old smokers. It's all that's gonna be done by this law and nothing else. And in this, a missed means of achieving a goal of praise and of which we should work first and foremost the Government, much more seriously than it has done so far and what it does with the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18754	Thank you. Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18755	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm going to start by asking why when all the HDZ deputies come, there's nothing in this room. Can you introduce...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18756	It's not just them, unfortunately, but others, but I'm ringing.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18757	I can't hear you, Mr. President, that's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18758	I was gonna say it like this. Unfortunately, it's not just HDZ, but I keep ringing no matter whose trait it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18759	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The harmful consequences of the use of tobacco products almost everyone knows, there have been a lot of words about them today, can be seen from different aspects, from the aspect of health protection, the promotion of healthy lifestyles, from the economic aspect as well. We have heard here today how much state currently has an economic interest in raising money from smokers, so we have heard how much loss could be if we approach this problem differently, but we have not heard what actually enjoying tobacco products means for the home budgets of our citizens. A family where there are two smokers, spend big money a month on that form of addiction. So we heard that smoking is a fatal form of addiction that in many cases and in large percentages leads to very harmful consequences, above all, to the direct threat to health not only of those who consume tobacco but also of those who are in their society. That is why it is of great importance to this problem, which is not a Croatian problem, it is a global problem, to approach sober but also comprehensively and not to try to create a false impression that one law will solve this problem because no problem in society like this has ever been solved by one law. Unfortunately, in recent months, since information has been launched that the Government's proposal to deal with smokers is about to come before this House of Commons, a false impression is just being made that we are going to make a lot of negative experiences that this society has with the consumption of tobacco products, and where it is fortunate that this is the case. Some have already said, and this should be repeated, this is not the first regulation that has limited access to smoking. Croatia has so far had good laws in the area, but they have not been implemented. In this sense, this law does not bring much news, it is somewhat more restrictive in its criminal provisions towards the level of punishment, it is something that is more relevant to the services or inspections that can, that is, have the right under this law to monitor its implementation, but in fact, this law does not bring anything new that we have not already had in previous regulations because it has never been allowed to smoke in hospitals, schools, hospitals, hospitals, universities, in colleges, in trams, in buses, in airplanes, all of this has been banned so far. Even so far, it has not been possible to smoke in entire catering restaurants but only in specially marked areas and so far it has been prescribed to protect the health of smokers, i.e. to give them the option of choosing whether they want to share areas in which smokers were allowed access or not. What my colleague Stazic mentioned here, I want to repeat. The problem is actually in the hypocrisy that we feed this approach primarily in the hypocrisy of the state, or government that is responsible. What exactly is that looking at? I am interested in what this law is, since we know what the health resort, i.e. Minister Milinovic, think about what Ministers Pankretic and Suker think about the law. In fact, tobacco is the only agricultural culture in the Republic of Croatia that has been guaranteed the buy-in several years in advance. Tobacco is a agricultural culture paid by the Ministry of Agriculture for very abundant subsidies and incentives. Furthermore, which means actually, which is the message. The Ministry of Agriculture, therefore Minister Pankretic orders growers to plant as much as possible and will make it even more worth your while. I suppose the Ministry of Finance doesn't mind the revenue collected from the consumption of tobacco products as much as possible, but the Ministry of Health has a completely different approach. I would like our government to harmonize this approach and it to reflect one comprehensive concern and one responsible behavior in problems like this when it is necessary to identify all those elements that result in adverse consequences. Furthermore, I will set up how it is possible that no one in this country has ever responded because of the case in Istria in the warehouse of a tobacco factory where I will not mention the name, customs control found a million and 700 thousand stamps with the same serial number printed so that it is exports to Montenegro. Not only has nothing happened to anyone, but within the customs administration in Pula, a misdemeanor has been suspended, and the prosecution has never begun. It's just the tip of the ice dream. In fact, such treatment stimulates smuggling which is very devastating because lower prices on the black market attract more and more new smokers, or the state directly loses control. I would therefore advocate a comprehensive approach that would include first education programmes through health education, but also other education programmes that are not only intended for school children but also for adults. Also, I'd be willing to help smokers actively. Rarely a smoker doesn't want to become a smoker. What my colleague Stazic said, it's a strong addiction and it's not easy. It can be helped through various forms whether non-smoking school, rehab school, make it easier for people to make and maintain that decision. Furthermore, I advocate that non-smokers should be protected in all public places and that they should be given the choice whether they want to stay in the same room with smokers or not, because that is their elemental right. But it doesn't come solely by a restrictive law like this and bans. Furthermore, I ask that tobacco production in the Republic of Croatia be stopped and that tobacco growers and producers be given an alternative opportunity to be stimulated to move them to another form of profitable agricultural or other production, so as not to lose income or their jobs, but to do so in the roots. Furthermore, I also ask and propose that specific fees be introduced which will increase the price of tobacco products, but these would be fees that will go directly to finance education programmes and quitting programmes. Compensation is a means. Furthermore, I support all actions that reduce the availability of tobacco products not only for minors but in general. But I also suggest that the state is determined to prosecute tobacco smuggling because what's happening now, that so-called. The king of tobacco smuggling was arrested for the 15th time, in fact a testimony to the state's inability or unwillingness to deal with this type of crime. How is it possible for someone to get caught 10 or 12 times in a crime like that and still be a respectable citizen? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18760	Thank you. Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18761	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's what I'm going to do to minimise my debate since it's more or less said in favor of this law, as well as the shortcomings that are generally present in our society in order to combat smoking. So I would just suggest two things that I think are crucial that this law in general in the social atmosphere would create conditions to start smoking less in Croatia, with an emphasis that we all agreed that smokers are actually sick people and should be helped. I would therefore appeal to the Secretary of State that the Ministry of Health prepares by the end of the year a full project of non-smoking schools in family medicine, in cooperation with the National Health School "Andrija Stampar" to conduct the education of family medicine doctors and to provide them with additional funding in the budget for the following year in order for their work to be additionally rewarded. And another proposal, that finally the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education create a quality health education programme that would enter all schools and allow children to develop healthy habits of life not only for non-smoking but also for all other problems that later give birth to disease, such as unhealthy diet, unhealthy behavior. And I think only then will this law make sense and bring a long-term goal that everyone would like, and that is to live in Croatia more quality, longer and better. Here, I shortened my hearing as much as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18762	Thank you very much, very much. A good example of how you can speak contentally and briefly. Mr. Kresimir Gulic, who will consider these circumstances.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18763	Your Honor, I'll be very brief. I am unfortunately among those 30% smokers in the Republic of Croatia. I'm just going to say something, that I was encouraged by Professor Hebrang's argument to do a little bit of calculating how much smokers have damaged me here most to myself and my families, so I came up with the devastating data and that's... I'm like a smoker who smokes for 25 years according to statistics and an analysis that's proven that a cigarette reduces life from 8 to 14 minutes, I took an average of 10 minutes. I smoke 30 cigarettes a day, so a month 900, a year 11 grand, and when I summed up 25 years times 11 grand, I got to 75 thousand smoked cigarettes times 10 minutes, that's 2 million 750 thousand minutes, i.e. I'm... I think it's important for smokers. [[Intruder: Clinically dead.]] I smoked or smoked for five years and two months of my life. Five years and two months of my life I've smoked. What I'd like to say financially is, it might hit the most because we're all healthy and we're all getting on genes, so we're gonna live, but financially when I count on how much I smoked and smoked, I've smoked 275,000 cigarettes or 13 grand and 750 boxes. And when I recalculated it with 15 kunas, it's an average price of some kind, it's not 20 or 10, then it turns out I've clogged 206,000 and 255 kuna or 29 thousand euros. Unfortunately, I smoked here, so I recommend to everyone that here's the reason I've made them stop smoking, and I'll do the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18764	Thank you very much. Final Secretary of State Mr. Ante Zvonimir Golem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18765	Here, Mr. President, thank you all for your discussion. Let me just finally give a direct answer to the question of the President of the Tourism Committee. Article 13(3) of the Law lists accommodation areas for guests, which implies by the law of hotel rooms and other rooms, apartments, and not facilities that are by law hotel, motel so that they will not be in the application of the law of this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18766	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, we're going to vote. The final proposal of the Law on the restriction of the use of tobacco products is an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 173. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Health and Social Care Committee, MP Boro Grubisic and the HSLS Club HSU. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to show up on the amendments. The first is the amendment of the Committee on Health and Social Care.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18768	The amendments are accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18769	Amendment number one to Article 3 is accepted, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18770	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18771	Okay. Amendment 2 to Article 5
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18772	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18773	I Amendment 3 to Article 11.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18774	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18775	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the bill. Mr Bora Grubisic's representative on Article 14.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18776	The amendment shall not be accepted for the reasons that the amendment, as it has been stated, fully unclearly defines subparagraph 2 of paragraph 1, so that no, the argument simply does not responds and it was not clear what was meant to be said, and contrary to Article 15.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18777	Thank you. Mr. Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18778	Therefore, in paragraph 2 of this amendment, it is proposed that, in closed spaces, I also said in my debate, that there are highly sophisticated cabins in which the quality of air is, after all technological innovations, filtration, aspirations and the rest, almost more conduced than in a non-smoking area. That's why in restaurants less than 50m2 of these smokers' cabins that aren't closed to understanding each other,... and in accordance with the overall and positive legal provisions, they must be incorporated into the law. [[You don't understand.]] That's what this is about, isn't it? Then I'm asking for a vote, aren't I?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18779	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. and amendment of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and HSU to Article 14.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18780	The amendment is not accepted, because in the context of this proposal, the smoking space is intended only for smoking so that it is not part of a catering facility where it could be served or where it could be consumed
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18781	Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18782	I think the promoter missed an extraordinary opportunity to respect this amendment and to give up extreme sayings in this law because the essence of it is the separation of smokers and non-smokers. I don't see any logic about anyone having a 100-square-square-square catering facility, which makes 20-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-scet-square-sup-the-scet-scet-the-scet-the-scene-the-scene-scene-scenes-in-the-the-scens-the-the-the-scenes-the-the-the-scenes-the-the-sceles-the-the-sceles-the-the-sceles-the-the-sceles-the-the-sceles-the-sceles-the-the-sceles-the-the-the-the-sceles-the-the-sceles-the-the-the-the-sceles-the-sce-the-the-sce-the-the-the-sce-sce-sce-the-s-the-the-the-the-sce. So I don't have logic here, and besides, it's very harmful for the caterer's profession. It is therefore unacceptable for us to make this statement of the law. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-17-0.u18783	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you very much. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the restriction of the use of tobacco products. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. The law was passed by a majority of votes, 96 votes in favour, 10 abstentions and 3 votes against, together with the amendments adopted.
