ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9772	Thank you very much. Dear President, State Secretary and fellow MPs, I believe that we all know that the Republic of Croatia is a member of the International Labour Organisation and that, in fact, the International Labour Organisation is a specialized agency of the United Nations, whose members we are since 22 May 1992. And the aim of the International Labour Organisation is to promote social justice and internationally recognised human and labour rights. The International Labour Organisation formulates international labour standards in the form of conventions and recommendations setting minimum labour law standards, freedom of association, the right to organise, collective bargaining, abolishing forced labour and equal chances and treatment. The General Labour Conference, i.e. the General Assembly of Representatives of the Member States, composed of two representatives of the Government, one representative of employers and one representative of the Syndicate, adopted an instrument to amend and supplement the Statute of the International Labour Organisation in Geneva in June 1997. Article 19 governing the procedure for the adoption of conventions and recommendations and obligations of Members after adoption. The adopted instrument abolishes the legal effects of the Convention on Member States declared obsolete. It shall cease the obligation of a Member State to report to the Administrative Council of the International Labour Organisation on the application of the Convention. It shall cease the possibility of an appeal procedure for failure to comply with the obligations laid down in the Convention. And the obligation to publish the text of the Convention ceases. However, the members of the International Labour Organisation undertake to implement the Convention or to inform the Director-General of the International Labour Organisation of the measures taken by the member no later than 18 months after the meeting of the Conference is closed. In order for the instrument for amending and supplementing the Statute of the International Labour Organisation to take effect, it must be accepted by 2/3 of the Member States of the International Labour Organisation, i.e. of a total of 181 Member States must adopt this Convention 121 Member States of which 5 must be of great industrial importance. So far, by 29 February this year, it has been accepted by a total of 104 Member States, including 6 of the great industrial importance, and 17 more Member States are missing confirmation or acceptance for its entry into force. As a member, the Republic of Croatia considers that all legal effects of the Convention considered to be obsolete international labour standards should be abolished. For this reason, the Croatian Democratic Community Club proposes that the Croatian Parliament support this proposal for a law on the validation of instruments for the amendment and addition of the International Labour Organisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9773	Thank you. SDP representative club, Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9774	The colleagues and colleagues, of course, and the Social Democratic Party club will support the validation of this instrument for one simple reason, because of the organization that records, I think next year's 90th anniversary of its existence, and which during almost that entire century has brought dozens, hundreds and thousands of different recommendations, conventions and resolutions, and quite certain that a good part of them have managed to withstand the time test. But many of these conventions, and it is even rapidly losing it to its actuality, to its relevance. That is why it is meaningful and justified for the ILO, so to the International Labour Organization as the only tripartite body of the world organisation, it is possible for me to say so to correct myself in my annual assemblies that are held as I remember in June of every year. So, back it up. What is more important is the reason for changing or accepting all those instruments and forms that will help the International Labour Organisation to qualify as much as possible for the responsibility resulting from its mission. The international organisation of work is therefore the only institution of international character that integrates, connects and represents that part of the world's population that does not connect or network by the nature of things. It's about the other side of the labour and capital conflict. And if it is perfectly clear that over the past two decades they have marked in this struggle of labour and capital that has lasted for centuries the apparent predominance of capital over work, the search for instruments and the possibility of also solidarity being insisted between the rest and the church and solidarity globalized, it seems to me that the key imperative question of our answers to the future of society at global world level is in the future. What's been happening so dramatically for, say, the past 20 years and not leaving anyone intact. Neither of us in Croatia are concerned about the events that occur in an environment such as no economy, no society in the world. Well, we've been here for the past few years like everyone else is facing dramatic pressures from two species. One pressure is to train ourselves as a society, as a country and as an economy, to be competitive, to be able to respond to this global market of everything and everything, to respond in an adequate and quality way, and, on the other hand, to exert strong pressure on those who are on the side of the work in a globalised, open, deregulated world process and system. And that's all the dramatics actually I'd say the modernity is just looking at that fact of that conflict between labour and capital. What's going on dramatically? People who deal with scenarios of possible events for the next 10, 20, 30 or 50 years predict that precisely demographic movements will have one of the crucial roles that the world of work we have known in the past, that it is fundamentally changing. A whole series of trends, trends that we have marked in the 20th century will become irrelevant or go into another plan. The fact is that what is called a demographic transition in the world will end in about 10 or 20 years even in that most underdeveloped country of Africa. So there will be some kind of nivelling, or stopping the world’s population, the growth of the world’s population. It will thus come to the need to seek new sources of labour where it is now possible, but it will not be possible in the future. Therefore, there will be no possible shortage of labour to compensate for imports from cheap markets, cheap countries, etc. with a large population boom, and certainly this will lead to major shifts in the employment structure itself from the fact that more and more women will be employed, that people with disabilities, persons with disabilities, elderly people, etc. There will also be large movements, so within that process that is already happening, so intercontinental spillovers to say so, but also capital that is already doing so in such a way that China has actually become a bigger problem for Croatian production but not only for Croatian, but also for American and German and each other, but rather for organising production in Čakovec or I don't know Osijek or Sisak. So, the very fact that in global frameworks, therefore, in a situation where capital, when it has globally exceeded all possible limits, is that there are no universal and unique standards, even though there is an ILO as an international organisation that sets those standards and in some way takes care of the implementation of these standards, but things are not as idyllic as they could be done from the very fact that there is such an organization. Today, only 15%, 15% of the global population enjoys the benefits of what we call Western civilization and Western culture in terms of own home, electricity, water, sewerage, drinking water, etc. Things get worse every year. So, it does not reduce the level of general poverty, misery, inequalities at global level, but against, it deepens, while at the same time increasing the extreme wealth of a small number of people, and that is now reaching the proportions that were previously unimaginable. Four of the richest men in the world, four individuals have more wealth than 47 of the poorest countries in the world, than their gross social product. Four men in the world. So I could give you a whole series of parameters that contribute to the need for globalisation which is a kind of opportunity and for the establishment of global democratic standards to pose a serious threat, and at global level, you have to look for answers to these threats. National legislation will not be able to respond, so on its own to these serious threats challenges. We faced in Croatia ten years ago, so after the end of these war events, the first transition we had, with dramatic dilemmas and doubts about how to ensure that the level of social rights achieved, labour rights which in some segments in socialist times were as high as in other post-Communist states, how to maintain these rights at as high levels as possible, and on the other hand, both in the social dumping situation and ruthless competition in the countries of the environment, how to find some balance, some balance. There's nothing on one side of the pressure to touch anything, everything has to stay the way it was. And the cancellation period of 6 months and the severances that will be at a level of 10 or 20 times greater or unknown in any other European country and that has been declared, so if you went to these severances and those cancelled deadlines as 2 institutes that have been reduced, and 55 new protection institutes for workers have been taken as some big step backwards, but Croatia had to regulate in that sense in a legislative sense and place itself at the highest European level, but not more than that because it was counterproductive. In the situation where we recorded, let's say 8 years ago, 500 thousand unemployed, then it was a matter of priority choosing whether you would secure the right to work, because in short of that right is the biggest violation of labour rights, or you're going to safeguard a formal level of some social security that could not be implemented and which could not be carried out daily, so to say at the expense of that right. That doubt exists now, there is and not only with us, it is, I would say a general question and a general doubt in all other post-communist or post-transition countries. In this sense, what can the world organization, or the International Labour Organization, do in this sense? And it can do so, it can do so to increase the level of control of the implementation of individual institutes, individual declarations, resolutions and conclusions it brings. This can be ensured not only if individual countries and countries as members of the United Nations accept the obligations resulting from this, but also if they create a kind of international pressure on those countries that violate these fundamental human rights in the field of work. There is no reason that at the world level it does not react to those countries that are still ruthlessly exploiting child labor. A few years ago, there was a debate about whether to buy for the World Cup of Balls produced by 7 or 8-year-olds in Pakistan or, I don't know, Bangladesh where this child labour has reached enormous proportions that are unbearable. National legislation can also be sanctioned, but international pressure can be created to eliminate this type of exploitation. Therefore, mechanisms are not yet sufficiently developed, but the ILO as an International Labour Organisation has the opportunity to develop and implement them, but it must become a serious commitment of each Member State and signatories to the Charter of the United Nations. So, if anything happened, here's the news yesterday. For the first time in history, a transcontinental union is being created. The British Union, I think Unita's name is and the American Great Union is joining together. This is the beginning of the creation of this global network of working solidarity, which is obviously not a thing of the pasture, then it is not just the age of the 20th century, but it is an imperative for some new forms of threat to labour and human rights that appear on a global scale. And that's why every form of support to the International Labour Organisation is welcome on our part and that's why we're going to support this instrument.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9775	Thank you. The HSS Club, Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9776	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary. Let me also join you on behalf of the club and, together with colleagues who have previously cited some facts, I also support the reminder that the International Labour Organization is a specialized United Nations agency that promotes social justice internationally recognised human and labour rights founded in 1919 and as we are told, here next year we will mark the anniversary. In fact, it became the first specialized agency of the United Nations in 1946. As we have heard about its activities, which relate to international standards adopted in the form of conventions and recommendations as well as the setting of a minimum standard of labour law, it also provides technical assistance in certain vocational education, vocational rehabilitation, employment policy management, certain statistics related to work, as well as certain safety and safety measures at work, which I particularly wish to point out here to this last measure, means safety and safety at work. Today, when our jobs, our rights and our living conditions as well as our communities are shaken by the unprecedented association of corporate power on a global stage, we must point to insecure jobs that often cause injuries, diseases, and death diseases. That's why every instrument we bring in, which goes to protect workers, we at the HSS Club think it's welcome. And that there are certain examples for that, I'm going to give you an example of the workers in agriculture who are the most affected, and we have a principle record that tells us that somewhere around 170 thousand deaths have been recorded annually in the workplace according to the International Labour Organisation. Those who mean food to the world have twice as many chances of being killed at work as workers in most other sectors. Food workers face various risks and are often asked to perform tasks with a large number of repetitions of the same movements as quickly and as quickly as possible. And yet there is no global statistics that could work this out in detail so that we can take certain measures and procedures that would tell us about injuries and deaths in this sector, which is an indication of how low the level of importance is to protect safety at work. In a number of countries, injuries with persistent severe consequences resulting from a large number of the same movements are not even classified as a professional disease. We also point to accidents at the workplace and long-term illnesses in the service sector. For millions of workers, safe working conditions remain as unattainable as we did a hundred years ago when we were just beginning to mobilize was an unattainable 8-hour working day. Death cases, injuries and accidents can be avoided, they are also caused by crime, not just because of accidents when greed becomes more important than basic human rights. We know how to work safely, what machines are dangerous, and what measures should be taken to manage them safely. We know which chemicals can have fatal consequences, we know how much rest it takes to avoid fatigue in the workplace and we know the ergonomic standards that are needed to avoid accidents in the workplace. We also know what happens when workers are neglected, when jobs are rented, and employers are allowed to give up certain responsibilities for the physical well-being of the people they hire. The instrument for amending and supplementing the Statute of the International Labour Organisation authorises the General Conference of the International Labour Organisation to, as a tripartite supreme and legislative body in a more restrictive procedure than the adoption of the Convention, abolish all legal effects of conventions on Member States by declaring the Convention obsolete because it has lost its purpose or no longer contributes to a significant achievement of the objectives of the International Labour Organisation. The instrument has not yet entered into force because by 29 February 2008, it was confirmed and accepted by a total of 104 Member States, which means that there are 17 more Member States missing certificates or acceptances. The entry into force of the instrument will provide a legal basis for the conduct of a general conference of the representatives of the Member States of the international organisation of work which may end all legal effects of conventions which it considers to be obsolete international labour standards and which the applicant considers to be in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. Given that the obligation to report on the application of such a Convention will cease as well as the possibility to initiate appeal proceedings against the Republic of Croatia for non-compliance with the provisions of such Convention. Croatia is actively involved in modernising the international labour standards it implements in its national legislation and therefore this is the fundamental reason why the HSS club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9777	Thank you. Individual debate, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9778	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This law should indeed be supported in Parliament because it is simply a matter of work and of the fact that the International Labour Organisation has clearly noticed that, as in the European Community, the Union should be cleaned and abolished or put out of force the regulations that have been passed and time has run over or have been replaced by new conventions or recommendations. I want to believe that after Croatia, 16 more states will ratify these amendments to the statutes so that they can enter into force. However, given that this law stipulates to be published in the "National Journal", and also by way of effect later when conditions under the Law on the conclusion of international contracts are obtained, I would use the presence of the State Secretary for one warning and a request. Namely, Croatia took over most of the International Labour Organisation Conventions in 1991. By reviewing these conventions that we then assumed in the legal system of the Republic of Croatia, I came to the conclusion or counted several significant conventions that have never been published in the "National Journal", international contracts, which form a legal part of the Republic of Croatia system. So I would kindly ask you to check that my data is correct and make efforts to finally publish these conventions in the "National Journal" in Croatian because part of these conventions has never been published in Croatian. For example, Convention No. 24, the last and only announcements I found were the 1930s Official Journal of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. Convention No. 90th, 119th, 121th and 136ths, this particular no. 136 I am apostrophe because it is a convention that speaks of professional risks for workers who work with carcinogenic substances. They were published in the official ballots of the former state when it was also called FNRJ, between 1957 and 1977. However, convention No. In 143 which speaks of migrant workers, 148th protection of workers from professional risks caused by air, noise and vibration, 158th termination of relations, working relationship to employer's initiative, have also not been published according to my data so far. Which 158 is not a party, which makes me sadder. Excuse me. So also recommendation 172, that I hope we are a party, about the safety and use of asbestos. So it's also not published in the People's Newspaper. So, because of possible misunderstandings, translations or anything, I hope it's not too much of a cost for the state to publish these conventions, as well as the others that we're party to in the People's News. And since I really didn't know we were a party for 158, I'm going to make an effort to be a party, to ratify that convention, although I know that the government will again as part of the union will be against, as were the ratifications of the Convention on Encouragement to collective negotiations, so that today we can use it as an argument to bring some questions and regulate laws, not through collective agreements. So, it's my appeal for the Conventions of the International Labour Organisation, which we all swear is welcome, that we should also celebrate the 90th anniversary of a draft, yet we publish its most important acts in our official journals, not the documents of the former ex-states whose history we once shared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9779	Thank you. Mr. Representative Tomislav Vrdoljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9780	Thank you, well-respected Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretary of state, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. The international organisation of work is a specialized agency of the United Nations that promotes social justice and internationally recognised human and labour rights. The International Labour Organisation formulates international labour standards in the form of conventions and recommendations that represent minimum labour law standards, such as the freedom of association, the right to organise, collective bargaining, the abolition of forced labour, equal chances and equal treatment and other standards governing conditions throughout the range of work-related issues. This proposal confirms the instrument for amending and supplementing the International Labour Organisation's 1997 statutes in order to make its provisions within the meaning of Article 140. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia has become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia, creating assumptions for its entry into force, as well as the conditions for direct application of the international obligations of the Republic of Croatia arising from membership in the International Labour Organisation. The entry into force of this instrument for amending and supplementing the Statutes will provide a legal basis for the conduct of a general conference of representatives of the Member States of the International Labour Organization which may abolish all legal effects of conventions which it considers to be obsolete international labour standards, and which we consider to be in the interest of the Republic of Croatia as a member, since it will cease reporting obligations on the application of such Convention and the possibility of launching an appeal procedure against the Republic of Croatia in order to disregard the provisions of such Convention. In fact, co-operation with the International Labour Organisation is a continuous process of implementing the international obligations that the Republic of Croatia has undertaken with membership and in which it plays an active role, and the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional resources in the state budget. It is estimated that there is an interest of the Republic of Croatia as members of the International Labour Organisation to create the assumptions necessary for the entry into force of the instrument for the amendment and addition of the statutes of the International Labour Organisation. After a sufficient number of confirmations, the Republic of Croatia actively participates in modernising the international labour standards it implements in national legislation. Because of the importance of this organization, and because Croatia is part of this organisation, I will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9781	Thank you. One notice. The meeting of the Committee on Economy will take place today 27:00 at 14.45 am in the hall "Stepan Radic" 133/1, chairman of the Committee Dragan Kovacevic. Ms. Representative Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9782	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Republic of Croatia has been a member of the International Labour Organisation since 1992 when it informed the Director-General of the International Labour Office of formal acceptance of the obligations arising from the Statute of the International Labour Organisation. In accordance with the provisions of the Statutes, Member States are obliged to submit to the relevant authorities conventions and recommendations adopted by the General Labour Conference in order to confirm them, or to take measures necessary for their application, and to report on the implementation of those acts in the periods set by the Administrative Council of the International Labour Organisation. In addition to the reporting procedures, the Statute of the International Labour Organisation also provided for the possibility to initiate an appeal procedure against a Member State which does not fulfil the obligations laid down in the Convention and as a form of supervision of the application of conventions and recommendations. The General Conference adopted an instrument for amending and supplementing the Statutes, i.e. amending and supplementing Article 19 of the Statute governing the procedure for the adoption of the Convention and the recommendations as well as the obligations of the Member States after adoption. The Instrument amending and supplementing the statutes empowers the General Conference of the International Labour Organisation to abolish all legal effects of conventions in relation to Member States by declaring the Convention obsolete because it has lost its summit or no longer contributes to the achievement of the objectives of the International Labour Organisation. If the Convention is declared obsolete or all legal effects of the Convention have been abolished in relation to Member States according to the International Labour Organisation, it means that the obligations of a Member State to report on the application of the Convention shall cease, and the obligation to publish the Convention shall cease. In order for the instrument to enter into force, 121 Member States of a total of 181 are required to accept it, i.e. two thirds of the Member States of the International Labour Organisation. By the end of February this year, the instrument was adopted by a total of 104 Member States, including 6 Member States of great industrial importance and 17 other Member States need to be confirmed for the entry into force of the instruments. The adoption of this law for the Republic of Croatia is extremely important because it allows the provisions of the Statute of the International Labour Organisation to become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia, thus creating assumptions for its entry into force as well as the conditions for direct application of the international obligations of the Republic of Croatia arising from membership in the International Labour Organisation. What is extremely significant is that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional resources in the state budget because cooperation with the International Labour Organisation is a continuous process of carrying out the international obligations arising from and which the state of Croatia has taken over from membership in which it plays an active role. By adopting this law, the Republic of Croatia actively participates in modernising international labour standards which apply to national legislation. For all of this, I personally support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9783	Thank you. State Secretary? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9784	We are going to the Final Proposal for a law on the validation of instruments for the amendment and addition of the Statute of the International Labour Organisation. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 75. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get involved and vote. What's the score? This law was passed unanimously with 120 votes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9785	We're going to the next point. - Final bill amending and supplementing the Explosives Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 79 The legislator is the Government. The debate was conducted by committees on European integration, legislation, internal policy and national security. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary at the Interior Ministry Ivica Buconjic will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9786	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President. You have before you a proposal to amend and supplement the Explosive Substances Act. In these changes and additions we proposed we set off for two reasons. One reason is to comply with European Directive 2007/23 which was adopted in the European Parliament after the adoption of our Explosive Substances Act. And the second reason is to remove certain shortcomings that we have seen in applying the law in everyday life. Therefore, the new Directive 2007/23 concerning the placing on the market of pyrotechnic means has established age limits for the sale of these products to consumers, then persons who can handle different categories of pyrotechnic means as well as time for their use and transport. This law is also harmonised with the newspapers set up in this Directive. The paper in this law also excludes the purchase of a license for explosive substances or for the supply of explosive substances no longer requires special authorisation. Namely, the police administration or the Ministry of the Interior has already issued an authorisation in the previous procedure for the import, production, placing on the market of explosive substances so that it has full control and control over the traffic of these explosive substances, so we do not consider it necessary to double the issue of a special authorisation once more. It is then more precise to define the concept of a manual storage facility in such a way as to allow the storage of pyrotechnic means of up to 60 kilograms of net pyrotechnic mixture. So far, this was in the gross amount of 150kg, so the provision was rather vague since there were doubts about how much packaging, how much pyrotechnic mixture itself is. And we have defined this new article precisely what this manual warehouse refers to. It is then prescribed that the circle of persons considered qualified to work with explosive substances and to be subject to additional training. In accordance with Directive 2007/23, a good limit has been reduced from 18 to 16 years for the purchase of pyrotechnic assets for class 2 and the purchase of pyrotechnic assets of Class 3, T1 and P1 only for persons older than 18 years is allowed, in accordance with the Directive. I would just like to point out here that the directive provides that people over the age of 12 can also buy a 1st grade pyrotechnics, but the government has remained under the provision for safety reasons that only 14-year-olds and older ones can buy pyrotechnics because of frequent incidents with pyrotechnics around New Year's and Christmas holidays. A clearer way is also defined and the procedure for carrying out a loud shot because the provisions so far have caused some confusion and there have been problems and misunderstandings in the execution of loud shots in certain local areas. It is prescribed when no approval is required to perform a loud shot, i.e. when a loud shot is carried out by means of 1st class start-up ammunition and pyrotechnic means. Finally, it is arranged to set up portable tanks for the storage of explosive substances, which will make it significantly easier for companies that carry out primarily road construction work so that they can store, in accordance with the law, the pyrotechnics needed to perform works in manual or portable containers for the storage of explosive substances. Finally, we believe that this new law will provide for a higher level of protection for human health and public security and, on the other hand, we will precisely prescribe a way of using and transporting pyrotechnic means. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9787	Thank you. The committees? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. HDZ Representatives' Club, Mr. Representative Branko Boxti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9788	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Explosive Substances Act was passed in December 2004. The addition of the Explosive Substances Act came into force in November 2007. Since those laws have entered into force, Directive 2007/23 of the European Parliament and of the Council since 23 May 2007 must be brought into line with legislation, i.e. the acquis of the European Union. This bill defines more precisely the concept of pyrotechnic means, regulates the categorisation and transport of pyrotechnic means, new categorisation of pyrotechnics according to the level of dangers is designed to ensure a high level of protection of human health and public safety. In accordance with that Directive, age limits have been established for the sale of these products to consumers, persons who can handle different categories of pyrotechnic means as well as time for their use and transport. In the area of pyrotechnics, European standards are adopted, and compliance other than this law is checked based on other regulations. This Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Explosive Substances allows a medical examination for the purposes of determining the ability to handle explosive substances to be carried out no longer exclusively under the rules relating to the Arms Act. Since the rules in the field of protection at work and the rules on humanitarian demining are laid down in a procedure laying down the ability of persons to handle explosive substances in mining in the holding or handling explosive substances in the conduct of humanitarian demining operations. More precisely defined term storage in such a way as to allow the storage of pyrotechnic assets of a maximum amount of 60 kilograms of net pyrotechnic mixture, depending on the size of the manual warehouse, which is in accordance with the provisions of the Arms Act. The concept of pyrotechnics is also more precisely defined. The paper of this law is the abolition of the purchase licence for explosive substances, i.e. the purchase of explosive substances no longer requires the approval of the competent police authority. This is due to the establishment of an authorisation for imports, production, placing on the market of explosive substances and authorisation for use, mining, execution of loud, firing, fireworks, which are required in accordance with the law. Sufficient control of the monitoring of explosive substances as well as of the entities they use. This reduces the red tape procedure without reducing the control of the explosive substances and the entities using them. Nor does it reduce the level of protection of human health and public security. It is also made mandatory for legal persons or craftsmen who use explosive substances to report on the place and time and the amount of explosive substances to the police administration according to which explosives are used no later than 24 hours before the start of use. The applicable Explosive Substances Act divides pyrotechnic agents into Class 1, Class 2, Class 3, Class 4, Class T1 and T2. While this proposal for a law has allocated pyrotechnic assets to Class 1-4, Class T1, T2, Class P1, P2, in accordance with Directive 2007/23 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 May 2007. In order to fully comply with the Directive, the rules on technical requirements for pyrotechnics should be amended. In accordance with this proposal, this law has been given by the power of the Minister of the Interior to adopt that regulation. The rules are laid down which persons are considered qualified to work with explosive substances and which need to carry out additional training. The age limit has been reduced from 18 to 16 years for the purchase of Class 2 pyrotechnics is allowed to purchase pyrotechnic assets of grade 3, T1 and P1 only for persons older than 18 years. In accordance with Article 3(1) of Article 7 of the basic Regulation, the Commission notes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, The directive that we mentioned earlier, and the more clearly defined procedure and way of carrying out a loud shot. The relevant provisions stipulate that a legal person or craftsman engaged in the performance of a loud shot must have a storage capacity for the storage of explosive substances, which is a significant financial expense in the activities of a legal person or craftsman engaged in a loud fire. Furthermore, the law did not define which explosive substances could be used without the approval to carry out a loud shot, and therefore the new paragraph that it provides is added. The current provision of Article 42(3) did not make it clear that, for each place, a loud shot should be carried out, the approval of the police authority responsible for the place of the loud fire should be established. This amendment stipulates that a loud shot by a seaman from a police administration who is locally competent towards the place where he intends to carry out a loud shot, will result in approval to approve the place where and the time at which the loud shot will take place. It also made a commitment to the applicant to obtain consent from the body of the unit of local self-government to perform a loud shooting in the week, certain days, such as Marking of the day, etc.. For this reason, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9789	Thank you. HNS Club, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9790	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Vice-President, we have before us a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Explosive Substances Act, which is more specifically arranged and defined by a whole series of issues that have been discussed by fellow Boxes. In fact, in line with the standards set by the European Union by Directive No 23 of 2007 we practically novelize the 2004 Law in a way that we have categorized the pyrotechnic means and transport more precisely, that we have defined the concept of pyrotechnic means. This categorization aims to protect human health and public security, the purchase license is lifted. It is considered that the authorisation for imports, production and transport constitutes sufficient control. It is then defined as a manual storage facility for explosive substances. It is prescribed that persons are deemed to be qualified to work with explosive substances and that the exact powers of the inspector are listed in the control of the application of this law and the regulations which will subsequently be adopted by the Ministry. The HNS Club will certainly support amendments and additions to this law, but we would like to take advantage of this opportunity first of all to address several questions and one proposal. First question. When proposing laws that go according to an emergency procedure due to their European omen or compliance with the acquis, the Government of the Republic of Croatia fully implements the European Union Directives in its legislative proposals. In the case of this law, but also when it comes to age limits and certain age rights, do you think the European Union would mind if we in our legislation tightened the criteria. We are witnessing numerous accidents of young people and this student of primary schools in the handling of pyrotechnic means, and it seems to us that the age limit in this regard should be lowered. Second question. Article 18, which is otherwise amended in Article 50 of the existing law, shall first specify the powers of the inspector. These are the right to review documents relating to explosive substances, to review documents on the professional competence of persons and so on. And then the same article says that legal and physical persons are obliged to provide inspectors with the requested documentation and to provide the necessary information and so on. Isn't this an unnecessary repeat of the same content in two ways? I'd like it otherwise if my HDZ colleagues wouldn't mind Secretary of State Buconjic because I'm asking him right now. Thank you very much. Furthermore, Article 9 amending Article 28 of the existing law says that the interior minister will prescribe security requirements that must be met by pyrotechnic means. What exactly is meant by that? There's one provision missing here that would explain it. And Article 14 which otherwise amends paragraph 41 of the existing law states that the approval to carry out a loud shot is not necessary if loud fire is carried out with first class pyrotechnics. Since we know which funds are included in the first class and that experience tells us that mostly the second and third grade funds are being used, and especially in certain holidays, do you really believe that there will be no violations of the law or what will be done otherwise? We suggest that some of the elements of the directive that are here be incorporated into us. It is said that some of the details that are otherwise covered by the directive will be regulated by sublegal acts or other acts, however, we propose that when it comes to the proposal for a law that we comply with the European acquis that all regulations and regulations be therefore sublegal acts adopted at Ministry level, signed by the Minister as soon as they adopt instructions on knowledge and parent committees in the Assembly, the Committee on European Integration or the National Committee, because it would be good for our working bodies in the Croatian Parliament to monitor what intensity they are meeting: Under the first legal obligations. Under the 2nd obligation to adapt to the European acquis. And whether they are brought forward, they are adopted in accordance with the plan which the Government has substantiated and concerning the adoption of laws and adaptations to the provisions of the legal property of the European Union. That's how much I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9791	Thank you. The HSS club, Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9792	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of my debate, I would like to say that the Croatian Peasants' Party Club will support the text in question, as it does, in addition to harmonising Croatian legislation with the legal gains of the European Union, is also qualitatively improving existing solutions and whose shortcomings are ahead of and during the current application of this law. In addition to the objectives of foreign policy, as well as the objectives at national level on the issue of security measures, technical requirements, handling, storage and other issues which ensure a high level of protection of human health and public security, we will support the proposal for a law to be discussed and adopted by an urgent procedure. In short, we will explain the reasons why we support the text in question, but we also want to point to perhaps one open question about this issue. The reasons for which we support are as follows: first of all, because of the attached material which explains the assessment of the situation and the fundamental issues that the law needs to regulate and the consequences that the law will require are visible: This proposal better regulates the categorisation and transport of pyrotechnic means, establishing age limits for the sale of these products to consumers. Persons who can handle different categories of pyrotechnic means as well as time for their use and transport. In addition to those mentioned in the field of pyrotechnics, European standards are adopted and compliance with this law is checked with other basic legal rules. More precisely, the concepts are defined: a manual storage facility and a pyrotechnic agent. The change is, the change is the age limit for the purchase of pyrotechnic assets and is more clearly defined by the procedure and the way in which the loud fire is performed. I therefore believe that the proposal for a law has been written in order and with an emphasis on increasing the preservation of human health and public security more than it has ever been, and thus a legal framework is being established to enable more quality control operations to be carried out. Analysing the proposed solutions, the information from the terrain that comes to us says that the bill is very solid but that because of the urgency and quality of time in their design, a quality debate with experts at lower levels within the MUP and outside the MUP may not be sufficiently relevant or necessary in view of the importance of the problem. I also point to perhaps an open question that we hope the competent institutions will take all the necessary actions and measures to make there as little trouble in its implementation as possible, which will not affect the effectiveness of protecting human health and the lives of people, their property and the environment, and public security. In addition, we are of the opinion that there is room for individual specific issues of the law to be quality-edited and procedurally and simpler sublaws which are within the power of the Minister of the Interior. No matter what these little details we think we need to do, we point out at the HSS Club that we're going to support this proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9793	Thank you. Individual debate, Mr. Representative Shimo Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9794	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. We have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Explosive Substances Act. Ladies and gentlemen, the Explosive Substances Act entered into force on 24 December 2004 in order to endure its amendments and enter into force on 1 November 2007. Following those laws, Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 May 2007 also came into force, and it was therefore necessary to bring Croatian legislation in line with the acquiss of the European Union. This is also a harmonisation of the technical legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the technical legislation of the European Union. This bill confirms certain facts, which is the categorisation and transport of pyrotechnic means, new categorisation according to the level of danger, higher level of protection of human health and public security. People who can handle various explosive things and their age, abolishing the purchase license issued by county authorities depending on their jurisdiction and arranged imports, production, placing on the market and use, and in particular on the fact that I look forward to the storage of explosive devices and funds as my predecessors have said no more than 60 kg. Because of this law, this bill of law has arranged three important things for me, which are traffic, storage, explosive handling, the ability of people who handle explosive devices and substances, and one essential component. It is that it has been so far, but it is an increased monitoring of both storage and traffic and handling of explosives. In this legislative proposal, there is nothing in my opinion that is questionable, so I think it should be accepted in an emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9795	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9796	We are going to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Explosive Substances Act. It was an emergency procedure. P.Z.E. No. 79. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get involved and vote. ... Then we'll do it again. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Explosive Substances Act. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 79. The debate is closed. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This law was passed unanimously with 121 votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9797	We move to the next item of the agenda - Final draft law amending the Health Insurance Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 72 The legislator is the Government. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Legislative, European Integration, Labour and Social Partnership, Health and Social Care. You received the reports at the session. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Care Ante Zvonimir Golem will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9798	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished MPs and MPs. The International Labour Organisation adopted Convention No 155 on Health and Safety, which is in line with the global plan of the World Health Organization on the protection of health at work and which makes workers' health and safety at work indivisible for the purpose of ensuring the health of workers from the adverse impact of jobs and the environment. During the alignment with the legal acquis of the European Union, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Health Insurance and Health Protection Act in 2006 which defines the responsibilities of the Croatian Labour Medical Institute in the part of the protection of workers' health. The Croatian Institute of Labour Medicine was established in accordance with the Health Protection Act, however, part of the responsibility is an integral part of the Department of Protection at the work of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, although it must be recognised that the Labour Protection Act defines the establishment of the Department for Protection at Work, which has not been done so far. That is why it is under negotiating Chapter 19. – Social policy and employment developed an action plan under which it is one of the measures to establish a new institution that will unite work medicine and protection at work for the sake of full access to health of workers. The seriousness of access to workers' health is reflected at European Union level in the establishment of the European Agency for Safety and Safety at Work as well as the obligation for Member States to adapt at national level, to adapt to a single organisation in order to set up workers as a centre protection facility. The amendments adopted in this proposal are the basis for the establishment of a health and safety care institution at work, and will be joined by the establishment of the same after the adoption of the law in a way that unites the Croatian Institute for Labour Medicine and the Department of Protection in the work of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. It is clear that further amendments to some of the laws such as the Health Protection Act will follow, as planned in the third quarter of this year, in accordance with the National Agenda for Accession of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9799	Thank you. The committees? For legislation, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, the Committee on Health and Social Care, the Chairman of the Committee, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9800	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State. At its 4th session, the Committee on Legislative and Social Care discussed the Proposal for a Law amending the Health Insurance Act on Health at Work, with the Final Proposal for this Law, and the Committee discussed this issue as a parent body in accordance with Article 76. The Rules of Procedure of this Parliament. The opening argument was submitted by the applicant representative. In the discussion, the committee members supported the draft Law amending the Health Insurance and Health Protection Act with the Final Bill. The Action Plan to bring together the legislation of the Government of Croatia provides for the establishment of a new institution that will integrate health protection on work and safety in the work of uniting jobs in the Croatian Institute for Labour Medicine and Activities of the Department of Protection in the work of the Ministry of Economy and Entrepreneurship. Health and safety at work is an inseparable part of protecting workers' health from the adverse effects of workplaces and the working environment. They therefore hold a better solution that part of the protection at work is not within the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, but in a new institution that will be responsible for both health protection and job safety. As regards the system that is developing, the overall system of workplace protection and workplace health protection, the systems further developed, in the opinion of the Committee members and this proposal for legislation, will contribute to its improvement and establish full protection of workers' health. However, it is pointed out in the application of the Health Security and Health Insurance Act at work and the functioning of the competent institution, certain additional measures should be taken to further improve the system. It is necessary to insist on the obligation of the employer to implement measures on protection at work, improve and improve coordination between doctors of medical work, primary healthcare doctors and employers, create conditions for medical work to become an attractive specialisation for doctors, etc. On the basis of the debate, the committee members unanimously decided to support the proposal and to propose to the Croatian Parliament for the adoption of the Law amending the Health Insurance Act on Health Protection of Health at Work in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9801	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9802	Mr. Vice President and Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a law amending the Health Insurance Act for Health at Work with the Final Proposal for the Law is one of the P.Z.E. The law in which the legislation of the Republic of Croatia is aligned with the legislation of the European Union and the HDZ Club will support it. But it is also necessary to say here, as in the case of other P.Z.E. The law that, if we use this football dictionary these days, the field is well covered. It is necessary to mention that we have a 2006 health insurance law on health protection at work adopted on 13 July 2006, which entered into force on 3 August 2006. The same law regulates the system of compulsory health protection at work, the holder of compulsory work protection, the scope of the right to health care and other rights of insured persons on that basis, the conditions and manner of their achievement and financing, as well as the rights and obligations of the holder of compulsory health insurance at work, including the rights and obligations of contract entities. It is implemented by the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance at Work, and the health insurance officer shall be provided at work with the first measures to prevent injuries to work and measures to prevent and detect occupational diseases in accordance with the Health Protection Act and the rules adopted under that law. It's what's known in public as specific health care. We all know that much better. And secondly, labour injury rights and professional illness. In fact, this specific health care of workers includes the following. First medical examinations and diagnostic procedures in order to determine the ability to work, monitor the health of workers, preventative examinations of workers in terms of gender, age and working conditions, and the occurrence of occupational illness and occupational injury, giving advice on the health of the organisation of work and protective means, organising the first aid of emergency medical interventions at the place of work, monitoring and analysis of improvements from work-based injuries and occupational diseases, constant care about better working conditions including time, modes and conditions of work, participation in information, vocational training and education and health care, safety at work and work organisation, assessment of working conditions in a particular workplace to protect workers from work injuries and occupational diseases in relation to work, promotion of health and health education, participation in professional rehabilitation measures of workers, the management of medical care procedures. So each of these moments mentioned is certainly important, but lately especially the eyes of the public are against, I would say under this point 6. – Monitoring and analysis of the pain, therefore from the basis of injuries to work, professional illnesses and others. Of course, but let's concentrate on this particular part of work injury and professional illness. In fact, we are certainly witnessing high these rates of illness and we are certainly eager to reduce everyone, and I believe that in this part, it is certainly now the responsibility of professional illnesses and occupational injuries in the jurisdiction of a specialist in medical work, so I believe that this part will certainly contribute, therefore, to reducing that rate that burdens us, as well as, of course, labour efficiency and, of course, economic growth. So, to expect that all these measures, called natural abilities, will reduce those rates, but this law and our legal framework cover a fairly wide area of health protection at work and occupational diseases, but why not improve it. Well, here's the law in question will certainly contribute to that part, and in the framework of pre-accession activities for the entry of the Republic of Croatia into equal membership of the European Union, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a new action plan for the harmonisation of legislation and the creation of necessary administrative capacities for the adoption and implementation of the legal property of the European Union in the negotiating area of Chapter 19. – Social policy and employment in order to fully meet the additional criteria for opening negotiations in this chapter. The action plan, as Mr. Secretary of State said, envisions the establishment of a new institution that will integrate health protection and safety at work, bringing together Croatian Institute of Medicine and part of the activities of the Department of Protection in the work of the Ministry of Economy and Entrepreneurship. This merger is in line with the Convention 155 of the International Organisation of Health and Safety Work on the work of the World Health Organization global plan for the period 2007 to 2013 on health protection at work. It should also be noted that Council Regulation (EU) No 2000 62/94 of 18 July 1994 governing the establishment of a European Agency for Protection and Safety at Work of a Member State is to ensure effective monitoring of the safety and protection of workers at work and on the same reporting by the European Agency for Safety and Safety at Work. So, in these circumstances, in respect of all these moments, we adopt this law, and in particular the following. The present proposal provides for the establishment of a new institution to integrate health protection and safety at work. By unifying business, namely the mentioned Croatian Institute of Labour Medicine and part of the activities of the Department of Protection at the work of the Ministry of Economy and Entrepreneurship, which is also in line with the provisions of Regulation 2 thousand 62/94. The normative part is the next part. The applicable law is amended in the section relating to the name of the Croatian Institute for Labour Medicine at the Institute for Health Protection and Safety at Work. It is noted, as Mr. Secretary of State said, that the amendment to the name of the Croatian Institute of Medicine will be determined by amendments to the Health Protection Act, since the law established the Croatian Institute of Medicine. So, what is important in particular, everything is pretty clear to us, but this amendment would worry about the protection of health at work and safety at work, which would certainly be a quality solution, and so far it has been, therefore, safety at work within the Ministry of Economy and we believe that surely these amendments and this law will improve and contribute to a more complete monitoring of safety and health protection at work and I believe that all of them will accept it by consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9803	Thank you. SDP club, Mr. Representative Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9804	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal to amend the law and create a new institution from two institutions is not something that is unusual and the unification of the service of protection at work has otherwise been illogical for the protection of work to be in the Ministry of Labour, it is as if you were giving the wolf to guard the sheep. It is therefore logical to separate it from the Ministry of Labour and go to the Ministry of Health. However, I would return to something else, on the eve of this, which is that in July 2006, the Health Insurance Act on Health Insurance of Health at Work was published, so almost two years ago, and it envisioned the establishment of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. In 23.11.2006, the Government of the Republic of Croatia established an institution, and in 15.2.2007 a temporary director was appointed and only 29.8.2007 was published the statute. So it took this government over a year to establish an institution that is very important in protecting workers. As time was wasted, and apparently the matter burned to the nail then started to speed up during the 5.12.2007, four regulations were published, and 14.12. begins the competition with an 8-day deadline all in the desire to implement the Health Insurance Act at work as soon as possible, and that the Croatian Institute is formed as soon as possible and that the office works, that the protection of the health of workers in Croatia is guaranteed. So the specialists of medical work that we have completely destroyed from 95 to today and sent them to primary health care, means in general medicine, de facto at this point no fellow health care has been ready to take over the medicine again, they simply forgot it because they didn't particularly do what the medical work itself is based on prevention and not just on curatives. So fellow medical colleagues on 14.12 had to sign contracts with the office within 8 days and had to have 4.5 thousand employees in their office. Just to improve the idea of what was going on in Croatia there are about a million and a half workers working in more than 20,000 companies and from them they should have chosen their specialist in medicine work, and as an average there are 100 employees in the company, so each workmate should have found at least 45 companies with which he signed the contract. Nor would that be a problem if in Croatia the network published in the "National Journal" along with this extremely high standard that crosses all international standards to a maximum of 8 thousand workers per specialist in medicine work, so in Croatia 192 specialists in medicine work are needed, and after all possible additional competitions there have been 148 specialists in medical work for over 532 thousand employees, which means that each of our colleagues in labor medicine has 10 thousand 300 employees per team. You can imagine what a colleague can do with 10,000 employees gravitating into his office. It was also illogical in the very conduct and work of the institution itself so that practically the employers did not know who to negotiate with, who to make contracts with. So, for example, there have been several clinics of working medicine, there have been duplications, there have been cases that I hope will never happen again in Croatia, which is that what we say is that we are a social state and we are, that health insurance in the United States is not social, so there may happen, for example, that you come to a hospital with a appendicitis and you are told that you have no insurance, here you have ice, put ice on your appendix and go to a hospital where you want to operate because you do not belong to us. It also happened here that our patients who had an injury to work simply came to a fellow medical work and they said listen it's not ours, go to your specialist who may be a few hundred kilometers away from the nearest office. We hope it won't happen like that anymore, and that's the reason why it was quick to form an institution itself and to ensure health protection at work even though, as I said at the beginning, we had two years to form the law on our own. Since prevention is one of the important things about working medicine then the work of colleagues in labor requires laboratory examination, psychological processing, and this is still not resolved, the question of who pays these bills and who deals with these laboratories, whether the Croatian Institute for Health Protection at Work or someone else. The issue of preventive checks is also raised which, according to one decision, preventive checks were to be paid by employers, and then refunded through the Croatian Institute for Health Protection at Work, and the decision was abolished. So there is still a great wandering in the implementation of the work of the Croatian Institute for Health Protection at Work. As it is a serious reform in the health system that has been imposed by tendering, it remains so that colleagues in labor medicine go to that parallel as you know it, so they started working without instructions and without valid regulations, not to say that by the day of today some medical work has not been received by the Croatian Institute for Health Protection at work, which only says that if we continue to do so, they will probably have to close their offices and go somewhere else, or to arrange some other health care, that we do not say that it started with the same rhythm, so they are limited number of instructions. So colleagues have to program this goal of providing services which, naturally, is not the same as in ordinary that so-called. common medicine, so in primary health care because in medicine sometimes there are some things, they are not predictable and you can't program them. And all the other documents they were supposed to have, from signs of sick leave to orthopaedic aids, etc., were not obtained but could be seen on the website of the Croatian Institute on which he wrote the press, so here's so much about so-called. e-Croatian and electronic health systems. Employers are not self-involved in all changes and competences of labour specialists, so there is a lack of campaign, there is no advertising, there is no meeting of employers and there is no way of sending them to a new state, and since medical specialists are mah private or in the lease that have their own regular obligations, what I have previously stated to be non-payment within four months, but as long as it is already going on, it opens up a number of negatives. All this is good enough for us in Croatia at this time to have an explosion of sickness, that our disease rate is one of the largest in Europe, that we try to solve it in a variety of ways, but that we do not solve it in the way it should be, and that means that we provide health care at their workplace and prevent professional diseases, especially by shutting down the medicine work and pushing medicine into the seal. At this point, we are not aware of the size of professional diseases, and one example is the Salonite everyone is talking about these days. "Salonite" has not been since yesterday, "Salonite" lasts for years and in "Salonite" so far there has been asbestos, there will be asbestos, but not only in "Salonite" because I must remind you that, except for "Salonite" asbestos, there are also in shipyards and construction sites, and there remains a problem with the resolution, removal and decommissioning of these buildings in construction or shipbuilding. And according to the official data that we have to trust, we have only 340 workers who have registered asbestos-related diseases in shipyards and dumps, plus 225 in "Salonite", and according to just what our colleagues at the Department of Medicine have told us, all of them are not registered, which is clearly the result of the fragmentation, of collecting data which we hope the unification of these two institutions avoid. What about asbestos and asbestos? This is something that is a burning problem in Croatia at the moment, because asbestos is not only in Vranjica, asbestos is plenty in Croatia, there are other places that are still undiscovered because asbestos has been put off and asbestos products in the whole of Croatia. What's to recommend? It is recommended that we move towards prevention and to turn the medical work towards prevention, and not only towards curatives, and that the competent ministry and the Croatian Institute of Health at Work begin to do their job, which is to ensure primary health care and prevention of workers so as not to have another "Solonit" happen and that workers who generate income to this country be adequately protected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9805	Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9806	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, he did not state exactly when he said that since 1995 we have completely destroyed medicine. We didn't destroy it, it was destroyed by war, and it was destroyed by economic transition, because in these conditions the medical work had to be solved, but at that time we didn't think much about the protection and working conditions, but we were thinking more about protecting it from projectile explosive devices. That's why the medicine work was destroyed, not organized. Another thing he said incorrectly, poor working conditions are the reason we have the highest rate of sick leave in Europe probably. And that's not true, because we don't have the highest rate of sick leave in production, but in administration, in state-owned companies, in local government-owned companies and self-government. This disease rate is not due to poor working conditions, poor job protection or poor job control, but to poor rules that allow marketing without any sanctions. Therefore, the arrows are pointed at the wrong place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9807	An individual debate. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. He's gone. He's losing his word. Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9808	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, the proposed amendments to the law are without any dilemma very high quality, and they allow us to achieve what we want in the SDP, which is that every patient is at the heart of the health system, and in this case the workers are at the centre of the system that will take care of them. In the conditions in which we live in Croatia in such inflation, the only thing that can save us is higher wages. Greater wages will be possible if it is a larger gross domestic product. Gross domestic product will be able to increase if there is more production, more exports, so if there are more employees. And if they are busy and healthy and have secured health care and safety at work, then we have created a prerequisite for living better in Croatia. However, when we put aside the quality of this law that solves the future, we need to ask ourselves what fellow Mrsic was talking about, that in these four months, one system that had already been destroyed, that I am not going in at all now why it was destroyed but was destroyed, was further brought into a chaotic situation where neither doctors nor victims nor employers were able to cope. Therefore, we have a very important task ahead of us, and with this task we also agreed on the Committee on Health, to try to initiate that, based on this four-month experience, we should say what we need to do to ensure that this law can be applied in practice and that workers in their workplace are truly protected and secured. We must answer the question of who will take care of the workers in the area where the doctor’s medical work is missing, we heard about 48 doctors are missing if I’m not mistaken. The second question is how to finance the services of a general family doctor, who will care for workers in case of work injury and inaccessibility of medical professionals. The third question is whether hospitals will be paid services related to the treatment of work-related injuries and occupational diseases or whether it enters the hospital's limit or will be paid from the institution's funds. We've heard how important preventive medicine is, especially in the case of medical work. I have information that during the past period, the prevention of medical work activities have been used by only 15 to 20% of employers. At the same time, the records were catastrophic, and financial expenditure on health care at work shows that records were not well kept, so according to data available for 2006 there were millions of days lost based on work injuries, about 25 thousand injuries and about 100 professional diseases, which is too little. Therefore, the record will just allow us to run quality medical work right out of prevention. I therefore believe that another task must be solved. If he was accidentally solved, I'd be glad to, but I doubt it. Here, I have in front of me the central information health system of Croatia where doctors of primary health care are networked. I don't think that medical specialists are networked and that this is the first task to be done because networking of medical specialists in the primary health care system will allow for this health protection in the work of professional diseases to be done in a far better way. So we have a law that gives us a basis for the health of workers to be better quality. Now it's important to make it happen in practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9809	Thank you. Replica Mrs. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9810	... This is exactly the way you completed your speech to your colleague, so it is not only a matter of regulation but a question in practice whether our doctors are going to be given medical specialists the same way that it happens with inspectors at work, no matter how much they can and can and will have the will and political will and also the political climate in which it will take place to visit companies in which workers, for example, work for 12 hours and where the consequences of such diseases will be seen after a few or ten years. [[The speech room is turned on afterwards, you can't hear it.]] So, it's also a matter of medical specialists who don't have enough work as well as an inspector at work. And the question is the luxury of even protecting people from talking to specialists, reporting injuries, reporting fatigue if they can't even get paid. Today, it is not a rare thing in Croatia to regret working without getting paid and not complaining about it because it is in such a position that it cannot seek its rights. The International Labour Organisation also warns about how much work is done in Croatia for so few rights. There, that's the key question. Now it depends on all of us how political will will be to bring these good legal solutions to life.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9811	Reply to the replica Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9812	Thank you very much. A colleague, Ingrid Anticevic, has just said a key word about the lack of an inspector’s work that leads to the lack of a doctor’s medical work because if you have 10 and a half thousand insurance companies you need to worry about clearly that you will not be able to do this job quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9813	Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9814	Honorable Vice President, fellow MPs, State Secretary. So in any case, this bill that will normally connect and it has already been resolved and turned into a new institution for the institution responsible for the protection of health and safety at work. I believe that it will have one more quality and that it will better monitor, update and analyse the causes and consequences of the injuries at work so that the more effective impact and impact on even greater safety of workers can be affected. Such unification is in line with the 155 Convention of the International Labour Organisation, as well as the 121 Convention, which defines labour injuries resulting from work or on the road with or on the road to work as well as the scale of professional diseases. According to the results of research by the Croatian Institute of Medicine carried out on the present risk of job damage in large, small and medium-sized enterprises from 2005 to 2007 in Croatia, health risks are greater in large numbers than in small companies. The results are analytically processed and show that companies that number more than 50 employees present have more health risks than companies with less than 50 employees. This result could be interpreted as a better application of safeguard measures, although it should be pointed out that there is insufficient knowledge of risks and lack of interest in the use of safeguards in the same way. According to statistics, seven out of ten workers were at risk of handling tools, machines, and means of transmission. A significant risk of injury is also present due to the declines. Physical impairments are significantly represented in the economy. Every third worker in Croatia is exposed to adverse climate conditions such as heat, cold, humidity or wind. The fact is that the impact of these pests can be tackled by technical and organisational measures so that it is inappropriate and sad that such a large number of workers are exposed to damage or permanent loss of health. Furthermore, a large percentage of workers in Croatia are exposed to statodynamic and psychophysiological efforts. Statodynamic efforts contribute to the development of bone marrow disease and static effort means long-term sitting as individuals sit in our Assembly cafe, standing, non-physiological position, work in inadequate space while in the Republic of Croatia 51.1% of workers are exposed as much as in the European Union where 45% of workers work in a tiring position. Dynamic efforts include repetitive movements with and without the use of force, carrying, lifting heavy loads, pushing etc. In the Republic of Croatia, 28.2% of workers are exposed to this effort. Psychological efforts include different working conditions that may result in stress reactions and consequent illnesses. Even 82.8% of workers in Croatia are exposed to some of the stressful working conditions. It is not unusual, therefore, that the fact that in Croatia the most important thing is that it is dying of heart disease and chemical heart disease. The inevitable problem in Croatia is that 15% of workers work in shift and night work. In the European Union countries, this percentage is significantly lower, except in the newly admitted countries of Eastern Europe, where even more than in us is around 25%. Finally, the survey showed which dangers, efforts and pests are most often exposed to workers in the Croatian economy. In the first place are psychophysiological efforts and most often in the activities of the processing industry, education, transport and communication, mining and construction. Then there is a statodynamic effort in the above mentioned activities, and we can only add that this is also a problem for shopkeepers. Then follow mechanical dangers, falls and collapses, and harmfulness, climate conditions and noise. Why did I bring all this up? So because I just believe that this new institution responsible for health and safety at work will primarily level the risk assessment criteria, and including bonus-malus, health insurance system from health damage caused by work, and by its work, politics will have a significant impact on future prevention of accidents and injuries at work. And provide greater care for what is most valuable to us and that is our health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9815	Thank you. Mr. Representative Andrew Hebrang, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9816	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. There has been a lot of talk about the news introduced by this amendment and the addition of the law that is not yet final, because it will be surrounded by the actual adoption of the health care law provided for in the third quarter of this year, which the ministry's resolution is certainly taking into account. So I would say only at the beginning that this is one step in the development of a general system of protection at work, both health and general, simply put, a system that is so complex and depends on so many factors that they haven't solved even the countries that are far, far ahead of us have started to solve this problem. So just a few words about the past. In 1996, therefore, before the end of the war aggression on Croatia, in the Health Protection Act, we solved this issue without adopting... Because it was an assessment that the time had not matured for a special law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The time had not matured because it was still a time of war, which ended only two years later. The time has not matured because the restructuring of our economy unfortunately had a bad impact on the general working conditions in many production areas. That is why in 96 C.E. we founded the Croatian Institute of Medicine and then in 96 C.E. gave him certain tasks that he had done for 10 years. How? It's the subject of a naturally critical debate. But in any case, he took care of the protection of health at work. Because this Institute, the Croatian Institute of Medicine under the 96th Law, was responsible for statistical research, which was done relatively badly because there was no information system. He proposed a programme of protection measures because he pooled the profession that could do so, planned, proposed and implemented measures to preserve and improve health at work, formed doctrines and standards in collaboration with international institutions, carried out evaluations of health skills and monitoring of the health status of employees, conducted a register of professional diseases, repeated with the absence of any information network, studied the causes of labour injuries and their consequences, made recommendations on their reduction, conducted additional education, therefore further professional training of all those involved in the medicine of work, performed skills and conducted second-degree procedures under special regulations. So, for 10 years, the Croatian Institute of Medicine has successfully mastered this period of adaptation to normal living conditions. Ten years later, in 2006, we finally started a complete reconstruction of the entire system because then the time had matured. And that's when we passed the Health Insurance and Health Protection Act at work that changed both the way the funding and the organisation and the way the profession participates in this complex problem with the aim of improving the conditions and approaching the world standards spoken of by counterpart Boris Kunst. Of course, this institution will be very slow to change the whole system, it is inert because it participates, I underline all employees in the Croatian state, all employers, all healthcare professionals and a whole series of other structures. That's why it's very difficult and long-term to smooth out such an orchestra, and we all need to be able to help together on this trip. What is lacking in this law, and what must we change? What we are changing is not the proposal's fault because in 2006 still European guidelines did not point to what they point to today. I would like to stress that this law has been laid down in its Chapter II. specific health care of workers, but only health care without including other working conditions and work protection, in a whole series of elements that Dr Milinkovic spoke of on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, so I will not repeat. This law is in III. head, regulates injuries at work, but again as a second head did not regulate the overall protection at work but only this health care and one related to injuries. Meanwhile, when the law was passed two years ago, three very important international provisions came into force that forced legislators to amend the recently passed law. Those three specifics are as follows. First, an action plan with the European Union in Chapter 19. Social policy and employment determines that the protection of health at work, injuries to the work of unity with general protection at work. Secondly, the International Labour Organisation ILO adopted its 155th Convention last year, which also requires the unification of protection at work with health protection and prevention of occupational injuries. And thirdly, the World Health Organization has adopted its global action plan in these last two years, which refers to the period 2007 to 2013, so it was adopted a year after the law that is now being amended. And in all three documents, the denominator is common that institutions that care for health protection and injury at work, professional diseases on the one hand and institutions that care about protection on the other hand must be united. I must stress that we had such an intention in 19996 as the SDP colleagues pointed out perfectly correct, it is not right that those who care about the development of the economy, this is the Ministry of Economy to worry about working conditions also because they come into conflict of interest. That's why we asked for it to be singled out into a special health resort that would take care of overall health and overall protection, but the time was not easy for that to mature, the echoes of such demands did not fall on fertile soil. Now thanks to our alignment with European documents, we are somehow forced to make that good step. And therefore this proposal to unite the Croatian Labour Protection Institute on the one hand and on the other hand the department located in the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, which is concerned about the protection of work, represents the achievement of those plans that we have outlined in 19996 because the time for this has now matured. And I think that from these discussions that were here, we too, on the Committee, have adopted such a conclusion in discussions with all segments of society that, and all segments of interested parties involved in solving this complex problem, we will find the best solutions and, in cooperation with colleagues from the opposition, make a joint meeting to which we will invite all interested and show that we can jointly achieve the objectives that are of general national interest. That is why I believe that this law which I say should be completed only in the next quarter when the Croatian Institute of Medicine will change its name, change its activity probably to the Croatian Institute for Labour Medicine and Protection, which will finally result in the quality working conditions that a Croatian worker deserves. That is why I support and recommend that the good work of all these institutions involved in it be monitored in order to correct errors in time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9817	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect alleged Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9818	I'm correcting my colleague Hebrang's incorrect allegations that the 155 convention was passed last year. It was brought on June 3, 1981. Convention 155. Convention 155. International Labour Organizations, you said it was last year. Not in 1981, but in 2003. On June 10th, it was brought by the Minister of Then Work and Social Care. 2003. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9819	Replica Mr. Mirando Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9820	Well, first of all, I disagree that it takes us so long to pass the law, so we can implant it to mature the time. Before Phoenix landed on Mars, we managed to put this law into operation. That's one thing. Secondly, we can talk about maturing, about growing apples, pears and grapes, but Croatia has always had good medicine. She's always had good prevention. Back in 30 years, it was going well, and we knew which branches, which groups of workers were affected. We had good prevention. In 1995, we said it now because of the war conditions, but we did nothing for 10 years to try to bring it back and return the good liquid of Croatian medicine, which is the medical work to the track in which it was until then. On the other hand, we simply forced our fellow medical workers into primary health care so that some of them forgot what they used to do because they hadn’t renewed their medical skills for 10 years. Here's so much for maturation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9821	The second replica of Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9822	Yes, says counterpart Mrsic, now apostrophe, a colleague of Hebrang has repeatedly justified himself that there was no time, there was no mature time to protect workers in his workplace. He says it was too soon when the missiles were flying, but here for privatisation was when time matured. But it seems to me, here I am not repeating what my colleague Miranda Mrsic said, I would like to point out that with this proposal for the Law amending the Health Insurance Act, the criminal provisions have not changed, because they have already been ignored here since they have been set too low. So if we look at the provision of Article 69 of the current Law, then a provision that unfortunately does not change, then we will see that these provisions are almost ridiculous today. Five thousand kuna, ten thousand kuna for a legal person who doesn't report a worker injured at work. Therefore, it seems to me that there is no such optimism, and there is no one will to truly, with full power, with the full will of life of this provision that is changing in the existing law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9823	The answer to the line, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9824	Thank you very much. Well, I can't agree with my colleague Mršić's statement, which he said was a well-leaded protection at work for 30 years. What we inherited in the field of protection at work, I'm talking about medical protection at work because the others here are not discussed. It will only be when we unite these two departments, or institutes. What we inherited in 1990 was the disaster of counterpart Mršić. First of all, there's no record of anything. We've had a number of injuries in the workplace smaller than the worst-organized country at the time. Why? Because the injuries in the workplace, as well as professional diseases, were recorded on the burden of general insurance. It was of no interest to separate it and to show it properly. So the situation was catastrophic. Second, they grow apples and pears but mature and opposition. I believe you'll mature and realize that it wasn't possible at the time of the war to protect the amount of ozone in the workplace where the grenade exploded because it wasn't up to us. You will realize that in this maturation, the first thing to do was to raise money for weapons, to reject the Serb aggressor, to free jobs from explosive devices and missiles to protect against what we can do today, therefore, from the gas toxic substances and so on. This maturation of colleagues is maturation but not pears and apples, but maturation of the opposition who will realize that that time was the wrong time and that that is why the people brought it down. But not to politicize things. Let's hand in hand as we set out on our committee and make a joint thematic session and positions and opposition and all interested, erase all political interests and misunderstandings and make a truly solid whole. If we work together like that, we'll need to mature for at least another 10 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9825	Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9826	The colleagues and colleagues of the Law or an institutional solution proposed by this law to unite jobs that took place on the one hand at the Institute of Health Protection and were under the authority and in the resolution of the Ministry of Health and Social Care, and on the other hand the work related to the protection of the Ministry of Labour, Economy and Entrepreneurship, as it is not already called, can be part of a job that will guarantee better safety and protection of people at work but necessarily and not necessarily. And that's what it would be good to keep in mind when we're discussing this law so that it doesn't become an alibi for the law to do what we should do in this important area. Even if I didn't get into the controversy with my colleague Hebrang about whether we had or didn't have time, whether we missed or didn't miss out in a decade behind us more seriously commit ourselves to protecting people who work because the ozone wasn't compromised in Chakovec or Pula or Umag, etc. and there was no reason not to respect, within that free part of Croatia, all possible regulations, conventions that were known, which were therefore no reason not to apply in those parts of Croatia. I'd go according to what I think is the measure of this law. Convention 155. The international organisation of the work that we ratified and took over as an integral part of our legal system was adopted in Croatia in 2003 and became binding for us as a country, as a country. Indeed, in one place, it provides for the unification of jobs, the unification of work protection and health protection, so safety at work and health protection, which are in no way identical. It seems to me that it would be very important for this new institution or this new roof institution to be immediately defined not only as the one that will worry about health and health protection, because in this case it is necessary to start from the definition of the World Organisation by which health is not only the absence of disease, but it is a general and psychological and mental and therefore the well-being of individuals. So it's not just about how we're curatively going to say so to protect and treat those who are sick at work. This is about much more complex protection for people who work, even those who don't work, but whose diseases may be associated with the fact that they may not rightly work or work part-time at home, etc. There are some completely new situations that would be very good anti-dumping and when defining the meaning of the field of work and covering what this new institution will be dealing with. In fact, when I say that it is a much more complex business and a question than just protecting health in the narrow sense of that word, I mean the fact that according to this Convention 155 protection at work and the working environment extends or covers issues that have nothing to do with this. This means design, testing, selection, replacement, installation, accommodation, use and maintenance of material elements of work. So, workplace, work environment, machines, equipment, chemical, physiological, biological matter. The work process, it is a vast, wide and large area that only covers this aspect of designing technology itself and what is part of the work process in a narrow sense. Another important component is the relationship between the material elements of work and the persons who perform or oversee work. So it's about adapting equipment, working space, time, work organisation, physical and mental abilities of workers, and it's not always the same. These aren't timeless categories. Standards are being set there and all essays could be written about how, for example, saving space can put a machine that will endanger the health of a worker, etc. But these standards of the serious state also account for the design of these elements. The third aspect that is unusually important concerns education of special professional qualifications, motivation of people who participate in any capacity to ensure safety and health. Often it happens because people don't know, not because they won't or because some employer is bad in himself, but people don't know what it is and how health can be threatened. The fourth aspect is communication and cooperation at the level of some working group, so within the company itself and companies as a whole with all relevant levels at national level. In Croatia, we do not have a national plan or a National Health Protection Action Plan that would cover all these aspects. And of course, this is the first condition that any institution would be within this resistor or that resistor to perform its function in a sufficiently high-quality manner. I remind myself, not to accuse here, I remind myself of a truly scandalous decision made by the Minister of Health who, on a proposal from the Minister of Labour and Entrepreneurship only two years ago, I think it was a February 2006 regulation, or by his signature, that the production of, say, "Solonit" continues and that it is not a harmful process for human health. It was only two years ago. Minister Vukelic asked, Minister Ljubicic signed approval for the continuation of the production. We're talking about it now. For 50 years, it has been known that asbestos is highly carcinogenic matter and that this is not just about the few hundred people who worked there, but that it is about 200000 people in an environment that are directly threatened. But we have obviously reacted not by the principles of what we advocate by passing this law, but by some other priorities and some other criteria. I would like to say, this support to this single institutional framework and body, but above all a unique and joint action programme, one policy that will agree with fellow Hebrang to transform then both governments and call individual parliaments and which will gather is probably a first-class national priority. Today in the world dies, killing 200,000 people in the workplace. That's the official data. And in Croatia, we have no idea what some already call us a practical nation, how many people are mentally ill because of insecure working conditions, and it does not mean just breaking a leg or maiming yourself in a workplace. People suffer in other ways, and we also need to start thinking about it when we pass laws like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9827	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Rajko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9828	Thank you very much. Mr Davorko Vidovic expanded the problem, not just the working atmosphere, but the atmosphere of life, and astounded me with the problem that is amazing. So, three or five decades or '96 should not be returned, but in 2006, the current health minister will enter history. Croatia in the 21st century, we join the European Union, and by its sublegal act, by its regulation, it allowed asbestos production by its signature. In Croatia, a country with a thousand islands and unlike the ordered states where all institutions where citizens often stay, for example hospitals, schools, museums, so where asbestos is located, each institution has a plaque in which it is said to warn citizens in hospitals, schools, museums, hotels, this building has 20% asbestos, beware. One guy at the end, if you come to the time of the decorated states of the West, America, if you come to the time of the season and come to a hotel that has this guy, you can sleep for 50 to 100 kuna if you're a good negotiator. In other words, unfortunately, the then health minister entered the world paradox. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9829	Mr. Representative Bruno Kurelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9830	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The essence of the Proposal for a Law amending the Health Insurance Act at Work is an action plan that provides for the establishment of a new institution that will integrate health protection and safety at work by uniting the work of the Croatian Institute for Labour Medicine and Part of the activities of the Department of Protection at the work of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, and since and health and safety at work with its logically inseparable part in the protection of workers' health, the usefulness of this solution should be evident and therefore I will support this bill. But allow me a few words about the problem of work protection. If the problem of labour protection is analysed in general, we can very often say that basic protection is primarily humanity, and for these reasons concerns the social community for the health of employees. This is, of course, just one factor that cannot be proved to be absolutely dominant in one society, because on the other hand, it is very easy to prove that work protection is an economic category that is interesting for the employer and the state and, personally, for the employee and his family. The suffering and occupational diseases of employees do multiple damage. First, the employer is reducing efficiency, questioning the organisation of the job, additional cost of growth. The social community is burdened by social and pension funds, additional employment and healthcare. Thirdly, the employee and his family as they reduce social security in the family, psychological stability can be disrupted, the general state of the individual and family. But now a little something for joy. According to available data in Croatia, about 25,000 workers are injured annually. Almost every week, one worker gets killed, and 15 people get hurt hard. Due to injuries at work, almost a million working days were lost in 2006 alone. But are these numbers alarming and where are we actually in relation to the European Union in this regard? And now look, according to the available data from the annual reports of the State Inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia from the statistical data of the European Commission EUROSTAT, the following parameters are calculated specifically. One worker in the European Union loses almost three times as many working days as the worker in Croatia due to labour injury, and the number of injuries compared to the number of employees in the European Union is three times higher than in Croatia. Looking at these indicators, we could conclude more than satisfactorily that our work protection status is almost ideal. But we mustn't fool ourselves too much. It is justified to assume that the actual number of injuries at work in the Republic of Croatia is greater than the official data because one part of the injury is not reported. It is no secret that employers do not knowingly fulfil the obligations arising from the Labour Protection and Savings Act, mainly do not want to report injuries at work at the Croatian Health Insurance Institute in fear of inspection of labour protection and high fines. We know ourselves that injured workers are afraid to quit, accidents with such employers are being treated on the burden of basic health insurance. It should also be borne in mind that black work is still largely present, especially in construction, forestry, and other sectors that are involved in risky activities. As a result, many conclude that our official data on the number of injuries are not fully credible and can therefore not make a proper conclusion on the state of protection at work in Croatia compared to the European Union. It is estimated that we only report 1/3 of the actual number of cases of work injuries, but now we come to the truth, but regardless, the dead cannot hide, and the number of deaths in work in Croatia is identical to the number of employees with the European Union. Thus, it can be concluded that the state of protection at work in our country in view of all the problems that are mentioned here today and that we face, however, is not bad as many people experience it. Since 2 August 2006, a package of health laws has been in place, including the Law on Health Insurance of Health Care at Work. But it is the same as the colleagues used to say here, in fact, his operationality came into life on January 1st of this year. Meanwhile, insurance solutions in case of work injury, but also professional illnesses have not yielded the expected results. On the basis of this knowledge, this law has been passed which I fully regulate the system of compulsory health insurance, health protection at work through the formation of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. The Act on this health insurance of health care at work also makes a great commitment to the employer, the employer is obliged to provide workers with a healthy job, is responsible for health safety at the workplace, and must make a risk assessment at work. And now for the end, how it now works at this point. From the knowledge available to the public, I can tell you how well it is known in the drafting of the Labour Health Protection Act were representatives of employers, employers' associations, union representatives and representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The law, although I repeat, was passed in August 2006, and it came into effect only in January of this year, but in our good old custom, it is likely that participants in its creation expected information to be done, or done by someone else, and at the beginning of the operation of this law a good number of employers and workers were not familiar with the law which resulted in a good delay in choosing a specialist in medical work in gravity areas. Since it is almost a million-and-a-half active working population of this country and the legal changes resulting from the need for a healthy team of Croatian societies, I can say here that the public media have not shown too much interest in these changes, and they are very important to the people who work within the system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9831	Thank you. Final review, Secretary of State Ante Zvonimir Golem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9832	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I thank you for today's discussion, but there have been some questions that have arisen, so here, perhaps just a brief explanation. The Environment Protection Committee was held in this House yesterday with the thematic session "Azbest". This committee ended with a number of conclusions I'm sure you've received or will be informed of, but while holding the board before the presentation of all things, something has become evident. The quality of medical work in the Republic of Croatia 30 years ago was excellent, which means doctors recorded professional diseases, and employers kept them secret. It's a complaint from a record worker, it's an objection from a salon worker. So they were recorded and never shown. It's just that if something like that didn't happen, there's a system like this to record it now. And as far as asbestos is concerned, as far as the asbestos is concerned, and as far as asbestos is concerned, I think the conclusions of yesterday's committee will speak for themselves. What needs to be said clearly, loudly, so this is about one side of the nomotechnical change which, after this whole debate, should only be said to change the essence of what is called in this law as an institution that will deal with these affairs, but it is also a key change so that it will not happen again that the data on professional illnesses are being kept secret at certain levels as it has been in history. As regards the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance and Health Protection at Work, it was clear when the possibility of passing laws was opened that expectations were diverse from various groups. So the expectations that were in each section fulfilled certain parts, certain parts did not meet. However, within a year, the Institute was established, the Institute worked, it had labor problems that were discussed on the home Committee on Legislatives, and we absolutely agree on behalf of the promoters that there was also one thematic session at which, as it was finally done yesterday, what was happening in Vranjica, what was happening in Ploča, would come out of the truth so that there would be no flat-rate assessments of how the system is at this point in chaos, how it was not paid to the medics, how workers do not have existing protection or how that institution does not work. The simple conclusions of these committees could give. The amendment of the Committee on Legislatives on behalf of the Government shall be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9833	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing at 15.00 hours with point 5 – Final proposal of the Act on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to Articles 25 and 26. Conventions on the protection and use of cross-border waters and international lakes.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9834	Let's move on. Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Insurance Act for Health at Work, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 72. The debate is closed. The legislator adopted the amendment of the Legislative Committee and they became an integral part of the final draft law and are not voted on. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The law was passed by a majority of votes, 120 votes for and one abstention. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs will continue to work. We move on to: - Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to Articles 25 and 26. Conventions on the protection and use of cross-border waterways and international lakes, emergency procedure, first and second reading. P.Z. No. 70. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Mr. Zdravko Krmek, State Secretary at the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9836	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here, let me begin by giving an introductory explanation for the draft Law on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements Articles 25 and 26. Conventions on the protection and use of cross-border waterways and international lakes with a draft final draft law. As is known, the 1992 Convention on the Protection and Use of Cross-border Waterways and International Lakes was adopted in Helsinki in 1992. I would also like to say that this Convention on Waters has received its approval in the Croatian Parliament in 1996 and thus the Republic of Croatia has become a full party to this Convention. I would also like to say that, as the Republic of Croatia or as a party to the 2006 Water Convention, we have also confirmed the Protocol on Water and Health. The reason why we are going to these amendments and additions to these Articles 25 and 26 is that in 2003 in Geneva the parties to the Convention, including the Republic of Croatia, adopted these amendments and complements on a proposal from the Government of the Swiss Confederation, on the condition that these amendments and additions are made to allow countries outside the region, which includes the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe, etc. The UN-EC shall also become parties to this Convention. Here we would like to say that within this region there are other conventions, such as the Archeological Convention, the Convention on Access to Information, the ESPO Convention, the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment across state borders, and also the Protocol on Civil Responsibility and Compensation of damage caused by cross-border effects of industrial accidents on cross-border waters. I would especially like to point out here that we as the Republic of Croatia have exceptional cooperation between coastal states, especially on cross-border waterways and international lakes. And here I would especially point out the Sava Commission, the Danube Commission and also the International Commission for the Protection of the Danube River. Here I would also like to add something important to the Republic of Croatia, which means that by accepting this final bill, we will make it possible, among other things, and in a legal sense, to resolve the issue and the above horizons in BiH and for reasons why BiH is not a signator of the ESPO Convention. And in the talks we had through the Water Economy Commission with BiH colleagues, they had no basis for doing impact studies, i.e. to see the impact of certain activities in BiH, which has its consequences in other countries, neighbouring countries. As is known, the example of the upper horizons has led to the taking of water from the left side of the Neretva cca. 22 cubic meters per second, there was a reduction in the entry of sweet waters into the Adriatic Sea area and for this reason there was also a breakthrough of the sea upstream towards BiH and as a consequence we had the meaning of the deforestation of the river Neretva, and also all that was the consequence, and that means soiling, inability to work on agricultural surfaces and destroying the river flora and fauna. I would add here, at the very end of this opening part, that by adopting this final draft of the law, all those countries that are not members of these conventions that I initially cited, and in particular the ESPO Convention, which is important for the water economy, will no longer be able to participate in issues that are relevant to the water economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9837	Thank you. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Ms. Mirela Holly. Here you go. She's gone, she's losing her right. On behalf of HDZ, Ms. Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9838	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to Articles 25 and 26. Convention on the Protection and Use of Cross-border Waterways and International Lakes, with the Final Proposal for a Law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by act of 15.5.2008, with a proposal for the proposed law to be adopted by an urgent procedure. The Convention on the Protection and Use of Cross-border Waterways and International Lakes was adopted as the State Secretary said in 1992 in Helsinki and the Croatian Parliament confirmed it in 1996. The Republic of Croatia passed the acceptance order on 8 June 1996. The convention came into force on 6.10.1996. As a party to the Convention on Water, the Republic of Croatia also confirmed the Protocol on Water and Health with the 1992 Convention on the Protection and Use of Cross-border Water and International Lakes, which was drawn up in London in 1999, which entered into force in 2005. The Republic of Croatia has passed its acceptance regulation in 2006 and for the Republic of Croatia the protocol came into force after 90 days. I will remind you briefly in the follow-up of the content of the adopted Convention. The Parties to the Convention knowing that the protection and use of cross-border waterways and international lakes are important and urgent tasks whose effective implementation can only be achieved through enhanced cooperation but also concerned about the existence of dangers of adverse consequences to the environment of the economy and the well-being of the member states of the Economic Commission for Europe. Then, stressing the need for enhanced national and international measures to protect the marine environment, it is particularly taking place from sources on land and supporting already undertaken efforts by the Governments of the countries of the Economic Commission for Europe and reminding many of the responsible provisions, declarations and charters relating to prevention, control, reduction of pollution of cross-border waters and their rational use, principles and decisions of the Economic Commission for Europe, and stressing that cooperation between Member States must be achieved in the first place by drawing up agreements between countries bordering the same waters agreed on the signing of this Convention. So the convention followed all the above mentioned above. The General Provisions of this Convention shall be binding on all parties to take all necessary measures to prevent, control and reduce cross-border consequences, in particular pollution and control of waters caused by cross-border consequences. Then, to use cross-border waters for the purpose of environmental safety and rational and fair water management, then to restore the eco-systems and measures to prevent pollution control at the source of origin and to implement those measures, the following principles, prevention measures, the principle of wage polluter, manage the waters so that the current generations do not spend on the expense of future generations but are kept for future generations, apply stricter measures than those prescribed but also the co-operation of coastal parties on an equal and reciprocal basis through agreement. The Convention also includes the obligation to monitor, exchange of information, responsibilities of the parties for damages and others. The second part of the Convention contains provisions relating to coastal parties, which are bilateral and multilateral cooperation, consultations, joint supervision and judgments, research and development, exchange of information between coastal parties, mutual assistance and public information. The third part of the Convention contains transitional and final provisions, voting rights and amendments to the Convention, dispute resolution, ratification, approval and accession. The Parties to the Convention on Waters including the Republic of Croatia at a meeting already mentioned by the Secretary of State in Geneva in 2003, following a proposal from the Government of the Swiss Confederation, adopted amendments and additions to Articles 25 and 26. Conventions on the protection and use of cross-border waters and international lakes. The amendments and additions to Articles 25 and 26 of the Convention are not yet in force but will take effect on the 90th day following the date on which 2/3 of the parties participating in the meeting of the Parties and the same amendments and complemented by consensus accepted their acceptance documents. The Parties to the Convention have voiced strong confidence that cooperation between coastal states on cross-border waterways and international lakes contributes to peace, security and sustainable water management. They also hold the necessary countries outside the region, which includes the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe, to allow them to become parties to the Water Convention. Therefore, this law confirms the amendment and addition of Articles 25 and 26. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia has become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia but also allows countries outside the region covered by the Economic Commission for Europe of the United Nations to become parties to the Convention on Waters and assume their share of responsibility for water protection. In order for the Republic of Croatia to end its legal procedures as soon as possible and to create the necessary assumptions for the immediate entry into force of amendments and additions to Articles 25 and 26 of the Convention, as well as to protect its interests in preserving the waters of the Croatian Democratic Community club, it supports the adoption of a final proposal for a law on the validation of amendments and addition of Articles 25 and 26 of the Convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9839	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9840	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to Articles 25 and 26 The Convention on Waters as it is popularly called a proposal to support the HNS club. However, we would also like to highlight the whole series of problems facing our wider environment at this time and who will welcome us sooner or later, regardless of what we like to beat ourselves that Croatia is a country in which the water is condition, with drinking water is relatively good. First of all, it should be said that few water streams in the Republic of Croatia are not also cross-border. There are few rivers, few lakes in the territory of the Republic of Croatia that spring and peek only in our area and in fact there are many more which are part of the wider plums and we don't care what happens in the region and what happens in Croatia. The fact is that water is the basic element of life and that human health depends on its quality. The fact is also that over the past 40 years, Europe has increased water consumption five times. The fact is we're also boasting about water, acting like we've got it forever, like it's inexhaustible, like it's indestructible, and it's impossible to pollute. Unfortunately, it's not like that. Many countries, especially in Europe, already know what has resulted from long-term neglect, long-term forsaking of heavy, polluting industries, especially environmental pollution and pollution of plumbers, plumbers, springs. Many countries in southern Europe, in particular, struggle with the amount of drinking water on the islands, in the coast, it is not a rare case for us either. One of the problems of Mediterranean countries is the salanisation of lakes that are in the wider coastal area, which also threatens agriculture, which endangers people's lives. On the other hand, excessive use of pesticides and various illegals even in protection zones directly affects the quality of human health supplied with that water. However, it should be said that the policy we are leading in the Republic of Croatia is often not synchronised, is not harmonised. I will remind you that only recently in the Croatian Parliament have we brought a river transport strategy. A rather flimsy, colourless, inconclusive document that has nothing to do with one long-term water protection policy. Because what's other is river traffic than one form, possible forms of pollution. There's not a word about it. Furthermore, I would like to say that there is a particularly difficult situation in the entire basin, because we share it with a number of countries and that we have some plans that have not yet been set up for the exploitation of this stream. I'll mention one case that's happening relatively close to us, and that's the issue of building a hydropower plant on Savi. Everything that happens in the Sava River is certainly of interest both Slovenia and Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia, but also those that are further in the Danube plum. It is said that the construction of the Drenje hydropower plant and recently light showed that it saw an environmental impact study led by an incredible task to highlight only positive effects from the possible construction of a hydropower plant, i.e. a dam that would practically stop the flow of the river from raising the Sava River, which would directly affect the rise of groundwater levels throughout the Sava aluvia that we know as Turopolje. It is true that a whole series of positive effects, from economic effects, are being revived by dead water streams, that channels, the system of channels that Croatia's water canals are required to maintain and not maintain for decades, are finally being put into operation. But something very important has been forgotten. In this area there are ten settlements where at least 80% of households have improperly built, therefore, old septic caves. They are permeable and the level of groundwater would rise at certain points of the zone, almost half a metre below ground. If we know that there would be a mix of groundwater with fecal water, then you must know that the largest drinking waterbender in Croatia is at risk. It is a waterbender located just below that area and on which is built a large waterhole of Kosnica-Crnkovec. It should also be said that this problem can only be solved by the construction of a complete, high-quality disposal system, because disposal and investment in disposal is the only long-term efficient way to store drinking water in Croatia. Furthermore, the study says that the existing water supply systems are permeable, it is not the only area in Croatia where the water supply system releases from the pipe and 40% of the water. Furthermore, it is said that raising the level of groundwater will destroy all forms of agriculture that are not war cultures, you know that the fruit does not suffer drinking water. You also know that it can happen to destroy some plant species that exist there. No one says that the transition to new systems of agricultural production will be financed, environmentally acceptable and also compatible with what will happen. And further, speaking of the Convention on Waters, let us not forget the illegal gravel that in many places in the Republic of Croatia has made craters that are illegal, again trying to re-recover by turning these craters into illegal waste dumps. Many of these craters are filled with garbage, construction material, various forms of waste that contain both toxic compounds and chemicals and in particular in this case when the level of groundwater rises as a result of the construction of the Dranje Hydropower Plant can occur, the melting of all these toxins and their dilution into water carriers. I'm sure it's a similar situation in some other places and that our boast and so easy access to the problem of water conservation can't end well. We propose that due to the general situation, the situation, not only in the environment, but also in Croatia, the relevant parliamentary committee shall hold one special thematic session on the long-term water protection policy in Croatia in accordance with the Convention but with clear objectives, clear criteria which will be stricter than the Convention. And we also see no reason not to discuss the Croatian Assembly at its plenary session after such a thematic session of the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9841	On behalf of the HSS Club, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9842	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party will support the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to Articles 25 and 26. Conventions on the protection and administration of cross-border waterways and international lakes. We particularly welcome that these two articles are changed because in this way other countries outside the region, which includes the UN Economic Commission for Europe, are also allowed to become members of the Water Convention. And this is an example of some other conventions, and this is particularly important to us because of our cooperation and our neighbours in Bosnia and Herzegovina who have not ratified the ESPO Convention, and there are very often some difficulties, especially when it comes to managing the Una River in Sisak-Moslavina County, or when it comes to projects they are carrying out and having a direct impact on the Neretva delta. It would be extremely important to open a debate within all relevant resolutions on how to finally comply with strategic documents and to carry out a revision of the spatial arrangement programme of the Republic of Croatia and of strategies which in many ways reflect other strategic documents, so we have the situation on the one hand to protect our rivers and, on the other hand, that some procedures are planned in space or hydropower plants that will in the long term disrupt these water streams and which will have unsightly consequences for the preservation of the plant and animal world. But of course then and on, on... A man in a certain space. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When it comes to the river Una, I can say it's a river that's on the border with Bosnia and Herzegovina. That there was a joint co-operation with the UN-San canton and Sisak-Moslavina County which are interested in protecting the Una River. On our side comes the initiative and we expect the Ministry of Culture to approve preventive protection for the Una River in the regional park category while we have information that the Federation of BiH has decided to declare the Una River a national park for its part. It is extremely important to protect the Una River because it has the structure of Plitvice Lakes, saddle barriers that are specific and special, and also because they are often damaged on the Una River especially from the Bosnian-Herzegovic side by illegal gravel that are irrevocably destroying the river floor and which in the long term do not only harm the nature and environmental protection aspect but also the financial damage to the Republic of Croatia, and we believe in the HSS Club that there is a need to strengthen surveillance and that such illegal gravel should be put to the end. We believe that all conditions for the Una River to be declared a regional park are met. This is particularly important because it is an area of special state concern where joint projects of social and economic recovery can be launched in cooperation with Bosnia and Herzegovina and place greater emphasis on the development of eco-agricultural and eco-tourism for which the end of God is given. And you can get funds from pre-accession funds. The project is also extremely important because the documents I mentioned are still in the Programme of Spatial Planning of the Republic of Croatia, unfortunately the Trade Mountain listed as a potential location for the construction of nuclear waste dumps. We at the HSS Club have already referred on several occasions to the parliamentary procedure and the competent authorities of the state administration to request that this revision of the Programme of the Spatial Planning of the Republic of Croatia be carried out and that the Trade Mountain be deleted from the programme. We also ask that even in any part of Croatia such a dump is not drawn in spatial plans. That such a dump is not built because Croatia's nuclear waste disposal is not needed. It is also important to highlight the issue of management of the Mura River and the Drava River, which have recently received preventive protection in the regional park category because they are characterised by a high level of biodiversity and are one of the most recent natural flows of low-level rivers in Central Europe. On the other hand, on the other hand, we are trying to protect these rivers because of their special importance and, on the other hand, again in strategic spatial documents, we see that they are planning to build and hydrothermia, which the representatives of Hungary manifested themselves about, or clearly said that they do not agree to build hydrothermia on Mura and on Drava. And that's what the court said about both the profession and the NGOs. For example, from an environmental impact study which was under discussion, it is evident that the regulation of the Drava River would cost 154 million kuna, and the construction of a multi-purpose hydrotechnical system of 2.6 billion kuna, which would equate, of course, no less from the State budget or from taxpayers' money. At the same time, for the area of these planned procedures, we can find information that it is part of the national ecological network as an area of international importance because of the extremely valuable habitats and species that live on them and will be proposed to enter the European ecological network as such. And an initiative was launched at UNESCO to announce the Mura-Drava-Dunav biosphere reserve. We believe that such contradictions should be resolved and therefore we ask on behalf of the HSS Club for an urgent revision of the Republic of Croatia's spatial arrangement programme. Today, it is more or less known that in order to preserve the ecological character of the lowland rivers, it is necessary to keep as much as possible their thought-making, handling and depositing of the coasts and sediments and connecting with the flood area. The more regulated the river is the greater environmental instability of the system, which threatens the lives of people. Due to the already performed mid-dravity regulatory procedures, there is an erosion of its bottom and the burial of the river in its own trough and the weakness of the link between the river and the surrounding flood area, which negatively affects the levels of ground and groundwater and the occurrence and duration of floods in that area. Planned work under way will certainly cause further drying, which endangers biodiversity and people's lives because of the negative impact on agriculture, forestry, fishing, tourism and recreation. A project that concerns us particularly and where we think it is necessary to form a common cross-border commission and co-operation is a project in Bosnia and Herzegovina "The Upper Horizons" that will have a direct impact on the Neretva delta. Delta Neretva contains the largest, most valuable remains of Mediterranean marshes in the Republic of Croatia and one of the few such areas remaining in Europe. It is an area of international importance that is included in... Wet habitats. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also an integral part of the future European, ecological network, and it is also envisaged as an area to be declared a nature park and in this sense we believe that urgent reactions and co-operation with Bosnia and Herzegovina are necessary. Because the above horizon project would translate an additional 2 billion cubic metres of water into Bilec and the plums of Bune, Bunica, Bregava, Krupa, Masline and many other springs in the Neretva and the Adriatic Sea. We believe that this project should not continue to be built until its effects on the Neretva delta and its eco-systems are fully reflected until the consistent application of the European Water Framework Directive and the Habitats Directive is ensured. Realisation of these plans, water translation into the Trebišnice Basin would have disastrous consequences for Buna, Bunica, and even the dying of Bregava, and damage to the Neretva delta, its unique natural values and numerous violence whose natural sources of water would have dried up. And the project we recently discussed in the Croatian Parliament, a project of the Danube-Sava channel, which we also proposed to conduct a broader public debate involving all experts, because there is a series of contradictions except that the project is extremely expensive – 600 million euros. People who come from natural sciences have warned that this project would cause flood forests in the Spačva area, Bosuta, where there are 50,000 ha of the most valuable oak forests, and the economic value of these forests that would be threatened by the canal is about a billion euros, and therefore we at the HSS Club consider it necessary to take account of all these arguments and open one broader dialogue. It is certainly important to point out that Croatia is, by the quality of drinking water, the fourth place in Europe, that this is certainly our advantage right now. But that we need to start dealing differently with drinking water, that we need to protect the drinking water springs, but also invest more resources in water supply and disposal because there are still areas of Croatia and those county that have only 20% to 30% water supply coverage, and there are still large economic operators or hotels at sea or catering facilities that do not even have waste water purifiers. If we want to have reasonable control over what our natural wealth is, then we must set ourselves up wisely in this sense and the HSS club certainly advocates that every resident in this country should reach the water supply. This specifically refers to rural environments, but also to build disposal systems because surely drinking water, extremely high-quality drinking water that Croatia is plentiful with can be a long-term strategic advantage for us. In any case, the HSS Representatives' Club will support the proposal for a bill to confirm the amendments to the articles of this Convention on the protection and use of cross-border waters and international lakes, noting that it would certainly like to open a broader discussion on water management, waterways and rivers when it comes to the aspect of nature protection, but also on energy, and in particular to carry out a revision of the Croatian Spatial Planning Programme, which is full of contradictions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9843	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary Zdravko Krmek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9844	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. First of all, I want to begin by thanking all of you who took part in the debate on this draft bill. But let me look back with a few words in the first row on what was proposed, which is to open discussions on parent committees. First of all, as far as water protection issues are concerned, protection against the harmful effects of water. Also generally integrated water management. I would like to say here that there will be opportunities for this because in the government's procedure is the Water Management Strategy, and that will be the basis where in one document we will be able to plan in detail, to determine the existing situation, to see the same future activities, and especially in part to the entry of our country into the European Union. I want to point out here that in this document we will be able to define our water management policy, and what is most important of all, means that the water that is our national treasure should be protected in all possible ways, especially in the part of the protection of water resources that I think we all agree is important to our future, our generations, our future generations, our children, and also here I want to call you once again all to support this Final Bill proposal, and also to prepare a quality debate for the water management strategy that will soon be on your benches. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9845	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9846	Final proposal of the Act on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to Articles 25 and 26. Conventions on the protection and use of cross-border waterways and international lakes, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 70. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This law was adopted by most votes, 114 votes for and one abstention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9847	We are going to the next item of the agenda - Final draft law on amendments and amendments to the Executive Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 76 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate was conducted by the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Justice, the Economy, the Work and the Social Partnership and the Committee on Law. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. The Minister of Justice, Mrs. Anna Lovrin, will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9848	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We have before us a draft law on amendments and amendments to the Executive Act, with the Final Proposal of the Law. The enforcement procedure shall be governed by the provisions of the Implementing Law governing the procedure of forced exercise in the insurance of the request of the creditors, the procedure of voluntary judicial and public records of the search and the arrangements and material-legal relations which may arise in relation to these proceedings. The latest amendments and additions to the 2005 Executive Act have introduced a number of newspapers and significant institutes that we can now say have significantly accelerated the executive procedure, made it more effective and reduced the number of execution cases in courts in the Republic of Croatia by almost 75%. However, given the need for further harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the right to acquire EU countries in this area and given the observed problems encountered in practice when implementing this law, further amendments to the Implementing Law have been made. In the proposed draft implementing law provisions, they shall be adapted to the future application of the provisions, regulations of the European Union and of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 April 2004 establishing a European order for the implementation of the non-contested requirements and providing for the application of the provisions of the guidelines of the European Parliament and of the Council in the fight against late payment in business transactions until the accession of the European Union. In particular, the text of the existing Implementing Law would also introduce the Institute of European Orders for the Implementation of Undisputed Requests and set the deadline for deciding on the proposal for non-contested requests. Also, according to the union's proposals, the planned amendments prescribe that, in the case of forced labour on the salary, i.e. in the second permanent monetary income and in the exercise carried out with the consent of the perpetrators, the amount necessary for the existence of the perpetrators, which is determined in relation to the average net salary in the Republic of Croatia, shall be excluded. This amount has so far been linked exclusively to the salary paid by the performer, could be seized up to 1/3 of the pay of the perpetrators, i.e. exclusively up to 1/2 of the pay of the perpetrators in the payment of certain privileged claims, regardless of how much the pay was made by the performer. The proposed solution seems fairer because it is based on the need for each existential executive to be equal to the amount, regardless of the amount of his net salary. In relation to the current situation, it is said that the net salary beneficiaries in the Republic of Croatia will be able to collect more than they have been before, while the pay of the perpetrators will be lower than the average wage as before, so they will be able to collect 1/3, i.e. 1/2 wages for privileged claims. The State Statistics Office under this provision is obliged to establish the average amount of monthly net salary and to publish that information in the "National Journals" by 31 December of the current year at the latest. The amount thus determined will apply in the following year. The other amendments are corrected in a way that addresses the concerns raised by practice, simplifies and further discusses the conduct of public notebooks and courts, removes the possibility of abuse of previously recognised procedural powers, which are essentially listed as follows. The possibility of delivery to responsible persons in legal persons is simplified in such a way that delivery is made after the failed attempt to deliver to the address referred to in the proposal is now carried out behind the responsible person at the address of the legal person in the register, or on the court’s advertising board, unless such an attempted delivery has been regulated. The editorial public notary shall be allowed to make the delivery by means of a credible document directly or by means of the requested public notary. Therefore, a public notary is given the authority of a court supplier. In the case of the Institute of Probative Declaration and the Passive List of Assets, abuses have been disabled in such a way as to try to obtain information on the property of the perpetrators before submitting a proposal for the submission of the trust list of assets with the help of other bodies. The circle of state authorities that are obliged to give information to a cadastre is extended, the possibility of delaying the exercise is limited, so that the exercise can now be postponed only once and at the time set by the court, the deadlines in certain cases are shortened when the court is acting on a proposal to postpone the application, as well as the deadlines for the sale of seized movements are shortened. The possibility of confiscated movements of trust and persons outside the executive court's seat is introduced, as is the possibility of enforcement on motor vehicles based on a credible document, so now also through a public notary. For the first time, the situation of the return of seized movables is also normised to the perpetrator in the event of the suspension of the executive procedure in the manner in which the rights of the perpetrators are protected. In short, the proposed amendments intend to achieve further acceleration and simplification of the executive procedure, full compliance with the applicable acquis with the relevant acquis of the countries of the European Union and to protect the existential minimum of contractors in such a way as to achieve the social component of the executive procedure by safeguarding the minimum existential minimum, as well as the provision that zero is any provision or head of the contract if the authorisation is granted on the basis of full safeguarded incomes, but with a note that it does not weaken the position of the executive, in some cases it is also improved because it does not wish to send a message to encourage non-payments, i.e. those who do not fulfil their obligations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9849	Thank you. Do the committee's rapporteurs want a word? Yeah. The chairman of the Justice Committee, Mr. Representative Ivo Grbic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9850	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Ms. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. At the 6th session held on 20 May 2008, the Court of Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Implementing Law with the Final Proposal for a Law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 15 May 2008 with a proposal to pass the law by an urgent procedure. The Committee discussed the draft law as a parent body pursuant to Article 73 of the Law. Rules of Procedure. In the opening explanation of the applicant's representatives, it is pointed out that this proposal harmonises our legislation with the acquis of the European Union, more specifically by Regulation No. 805/204 of the European Parliament and of the Council. This creates the conditions for the direct application of the Regulation at the time of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to full membership of the European Union. A fairer way of forced pay is proposed, voluntary treatment is limited to the amount that protects the existenceal minimum and life of the debtors. It is proposed to improve some of the provisions of practice. The members of the Committee unanimously supported the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Implementing Law. It is thought that the proposed solutions will enable faster settlement of demand, while at the same time ensuring minimum living conditions for the perpetrator due to debt settlement obligations. In line with the proposed Article 25, the Committee members pointed to the problem of frequent amendments to the law and the need to conduct discussions on the subject matter. Following the debate, the Committee on Justice unanimously decided to propose a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Implementing Law with seven votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9851	Thank you. The Legislative Committee? The Committee on Labour and Social Partnership? The Economic Committee? And the Committee on European Integration? I'm opening a debate. SDP club, Mr. Representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9852	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Let's get right to it. Therefore, the Executive Act, as one of the subjects of the exercise, also lists monetary claims on the gyro-account, foreign exchange account, current account and other accounts of the perpetrators in the legal persons performing the work of the payment object. I think that's the essence of the changes required by this executive law. Why? Namely, the case law in the Republic of Croatia treats all the funds that are paid to the current account as cash, regardless of the legal basis of these receipts. This means that the full remuneration, the pension of the perpetrators, or even the child's allowance or any other income that should be exempt from the application of Article 148 of the applicable Implementing Act or the provisions of Article 149 should apply. Official law on the restriction of enforcement over those assets. The basis for such case-law is explained by the fact that Articles 180 to 184 are in articles 180 to 184. There are no provisions on the exemption or restriction of enforcement in the accounts of legal persons engaged in legal services. Now something about the correctness of the procedure in the Croatian Parliament. Two laws, the amendment laws and amendments of the Implementing Law come from different sides. One law is number 69, the law came first in the parliamentary procedure and was proposed by the SDP club. The second law is number 76, later came into parliamentary procedure, first came to the agenda, but that is the government's proposal. It's a practice. And we are not opposed to that practice because our goal is not to fight who will first, but who will change things for the better. And when that is the case, we at the SDP Club have some objections that are, we think they're worse than the SDP club's bill of law. Why? The Government's proposal on the restriction of enforcement on salary and other income is based on an average salary. My colleagues and colleagues, the average salary is fiction. As a rule, a very rare worker receives an average salary. Or bigger or smaller. And there we cannot build social justice, social justice, and nor can we ensure that man is responsible not only for himself as a worker, but for his family, and the task of society is to protect both the individual and the family. In a democratic and social society, such as Croatia, even if it was only established in the Constitution and market economies, it is also a duty for the believer to monitor and assess the social, realistic, financial and economic possibilities of his creditor, i.e. the borrower. Such a situation is not in Croatian society. It is no wonder that "Croatian" banks, the banks of the daughters of famous European banks have no social obligation, and even less national responsibility in giving credit or obligation to observe, assess how much it is possible to burden the borrower with a social and security aspect. I repeat again "Croatian" banks do not have a social task or a national responsibility to take care of these responsibilities, because their main interest is not to care about the social security of the jobseeker, but to maximise profits. That this also shows the fact that despite the global difficulties, financial difficulties in the Croatian bank's society have maximum profits in Croatian society and amount to say the biggest cake from the Croatian economy for its owners. In such a situation, if the Government does so, with the protection of stronger, more powerful banks, and on the basis of the average salary, seek the protection of creditors is to favour banks rather than social care for workers. Why is that? Right, the government is protecting workers below the average salary, so it says their salary will be protected, two-thirds to their salary. But if you're doing a little more than 4 or 5 thousand kunas, like somewhere the average salary, 6 thousand kunas a worker earns, at the same time has five family members. It's such an injustice to him that it's unacceptable. Or God forbid he makes $15,000, and he's got six family members, so his social status is harder than that of a worker who earns his own 5,000 kuna. Because if we were to divide into family members, this one has 5 thousand kunas, and 15 thousand per family are 3 thousand kunas, so both the directors and the givings are much larger, but the government does not protect such workers because it believes that it should go to the banks as stronger players on the market. In our opinion, this is not acceptable from a social point of view. If you take something else that is very important, that the average salary I already said 5 thousand kuna, and the union basket somewhere around 6 thousand and 200 kuna, we have to make sure that the intensity and desire of the society that wants to develop is that there are as many workers above the average salary, and not that a certain small number of workers who have extremely high wages correct that average salary, then this will really be just a protection of high capital. We need to identify what the priority is, which is the rank of priority in our society. Is protecting so-called protection. Croatian banks can make the most of the funds and earn what is normal for the business of each company and also for the banks, but it is not the task of the state to take care of the large capital alone, but also the social security and power of its citizens. That's why I could say it like this. We're in one disrepansion. The law improves the social situation, the government's proposal improves the social situation certainly of citizens, workers who receive below average wages because it is referred to, but it is very doubtful whether it improves in my personal opinion does not improve the social status of workers who have slightly higher incomes than average income, and have more family members than it does in a difficult position, and this is not acceptable. But under two circumstances, I'm going to say so in front of the SDP club, willing to say, if we were to return to a principled position to protect two-thirds of the average salary of a believer, then we would be much more content and certainly support the adoption of such a law. I have to ask the club to say so, to consider whether it is acceptable to share this social security of citizens without having visible exact information as far as it hits anyone. So I'm not sure how the club will determine whether or not we support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9853	Thank you. HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9854	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Madam Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. I will introduce that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Executive Law, primarily assessing it as a significant improvement in terms of the regulation of the process of forced implementation and insurance of the search of creditors and the procedure of voluntary court public note insurance of search. On the other hand, our legislation harmonizes with the provisions of the regulation of the European Parliament and of the European Council in terms of the establishment of a single legal institute, i.e. a European executive title for uncontested claims, thus creating or creating normative preconditions for the provision of instruments which would prevent late payment in business transactions. With this in relation to the bill, we can really divide it into two wholes. The first or first part relating to the procedure for issuing a certificate on a European executive order for non-contested claims and for determining and implementing the enforcement on the basis of a European executive order, hence provisions to be applied from the date of entry of the Republic of Croatia into full membership of the European Union and the second part of the provisions relating to the exercise procedure itself, of which, in any event, the provision or those provisions that regulate the implementation in a new way, the exercise when carried out on the salary of the perpetrators, should be laid down. In this respect, starting with the principle that the Republic of Croatia and the social state are, taking care of the social status of their citizens and also in the context of implementing the provisions of the Implementing Law in such a way as to allow the perpetrators to have minimum conditions for existence despite the obligation to settle their debt, it is indeed to welcome those provisions that prescribe exceptions, i.e. the amount of pay paid by the perpetrators which is exempt when it comes to executive procedures, or when the performance itself is carried out on the salary of the perpetrators. So here we have three solutions. The first is when two-thirds of the average net salary in the Republic of Croatia is excluded from the exercise, of course when the execution is carried out on behalf of the perpetrators. Secondly, if the execution is carried out for the purpose of payment, so the claims on the basis of legal restraint or compensation resulting from health impairment or reduction or loss of early ability and compensation for lost maintenance due to the death of the maintenance provider are excluded from the amount, so from one half of the average net salary in the Republic of Croatia. The third situation in the event of an execution for the purpose of forced payment of financial amounts for the maintenance of the child was then excluded from the application of the amount of one quarter of the average monthly net salary paid per employee in the legal persons of the Republic of Croatia for the past year. Furthermore, in those cases where the perpetrator receives a lower salary than the average net salary in the Republic of Croatia, the amount of two-thirds of the salary is excluded from the exercise, and in that situation, if the commission is carried out for the purpose of the payment of claims based on legal abstention, compensations resulting from impaired health or reduction, i.e. loss of working ability and compensation for loss of maintenance due to the death of the maintenance provider shall be exempt from one-half of the net salary of the perpetrators. In this respect, it is very important to provide a provision that regulates that the consent which allows the severance of wages, or other permanent income for an amount excluded from the application does not produce legal effects. Therefore, it does not produce legal effects despite the possibility of debtors to confiscate his salary by publicly certified correcting that the consent to be paid for by creditors. So let's really say, this provision goes towards social sensitivity, protection of existence or this existential minimum of what is actually being carried out in terms of carrying out the performance on his salary or the constant monetary income, so what he and his family exist or live from as an individual. It is also very important to point out that if the authorising officer is not settled in accordance with the performance decision within one year of the date of delivery of that decision to the bank and if he does not propose to amend the funds and the subject-matter of the application, the court will suspend that exercise. So we have an institute to suspend the exercise in terms of these elaborate and proposed legal solutions. Furthermore, the amended provisions of the Implementing Law relating to delivery, the way in which the procedure is implemented, the competence of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce should absolutely be supported, in particular those relating to the reduction of deadlines and the possibility of delaying the implementation itself. In particular, it is necessary to segregate a provision which regulates that, on a proposal from the authorising officer, the court may fully or partly postpone the exercise but only once, so only once, if the implementation is not initiated and during which the court determines and the possibility of delaying the application for a period of up to six months. It also extends the circle of bodies and legal persons from which an executive may obtain information on the property of the perpetrators prior to the initiation of a court procedure which can best be marked or in a better way can mark the subject and means of enforcement and which should ultimately lead to a faster handling of the executive court under the very proposal for enforcement. As regards the procedure for issuing a certificate of a European executive order for non-contested claims and for the determination and implementation of the exercise on the basis of a European executive order, the following should be indicated. We've also worked out two situations. Therefore, the first to refer to the issue of a certificate on a European executive order where the courts, administrative bodies, public notaries or legal persons authorised to issue an executive clearance of the home European executive order on non-contested claims, and this second part which refers to or which regulates that an executive document which is confirmed in another Member State of the European Union in accordance with the Regulation as a European executive order is also carried out in the Republic of Croatia under the same conditions as the domestic executive document, without the need to implement a special procedure for the recognition of that document and the declaration of its enforcement, without the need to decide on its recognition as a previous issue. Of course, it should be noted here that these provisions or this institute apply, not immediately, but on the day of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. In conclusion, because of all of this, because it is actually in the best possible way two principles have been reconciled. This is the first and basic principle of the executive procedure, which regulates the implementation of the executive procedure in the first place in order to settle the credentials, the settlement of the executives, and, on the other hand, the principle that in all these situations the dignity of the person on whose means are exercised and that it is not jeopardised by the very existence of it or its family. So, just in the right way, the reconciliation of the two at first sight of the conflicting principles has been proposed by these legal solutions as extremely high-quality solutions, and that is why the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community and supports them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9855	Thank you. Club of MPs IDS Mr. Representative Marin Brkarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9856	Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, fellow MPs. Here, I'd like to say a few words about the very proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the executive law, with the final bill. First of all, I will welcome all the quality changes or amendments proposed in the text that are heading towards further acceleration of the process, discharging the courts, increasing the economy and legal certainty. On the other hand, it was certainly necessary to comply with the directives of the European Union or of the Parliament and of the councils mentioned here. And certainly, to welcome is the part where it is said that two thirds of the average net salary in the Republic of Croatia and one half in cases of legal abstention or compensation for damage in certain cases are excluded. Here is certainly the reason I will say that it says that the legislator is called to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and where it says that the Republic of Croatia is a social state. I will say, so far the Republic of Croatia has been a social state and the fact is that it has allowed the seizing of the entire salary or personal income to be true if the debtor has given the certified correction as consent to his full pay. I personally believe that this did not normally show that we are a social state, that banks that approve loans or other monetary institutions are obliged to assess the insolvency of their creditors and that banks are also obliged to bear part of the risk. We know today that, from daily, weekly newspapers and almost every window, we are filled with numerous calls for loans and loans within five minutes and similar, and I think that in this Croatian Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Croatia must protect the citizens of this country and certainly the banks are obliged if they do not or do not assess the proper approval of credit or their committees seeking credit and part of the risk. Here, other changes in terms of speeding up the delivery process through the public notary, advertising, delay options for a maximum of six months mean also to speed up the process are certainly to support. In this section, the implementation, as set out in Article 15, would also be carried out on the salary of the performers, if the amount of 2/3 of the pay made by the user or the believer were excluded, the creditor that that credit receives and certainly those who receive the pay less than the average salary to be bound by that exemption of 2/3 of the salary. I advocate that the banks in the Republic of Croatia also bear part of the risk of credit approval and I advocate protection of citizens of the Republic of Croatia means that one third and one half of those credit users who receive salaries lower than the average net salary in the Republic of Croatia are excluded from the exercise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9857	Thank you. Individual debate, Mr. Representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9858	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. Introductoryly, I support the draft law amending and supplementing the Executive Act, which has been sent to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 15 May 2008. I consider it necessary to adopt this law primarily to comply with European Union legislation and Regulation No 805/204 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2004 concerning the creation of a European executive title for the non-distribution of auctions and Directive 2000/35 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2000 which seeks to prevent late payment in business transactions. Since the latest amendments to the 2005 Executive Act have introduced a very large number of quality solutions that have accelerated and allowed the executive process to become effective. The proposed amendments to the law are even more high-quality, and the basis of the practice so far regulates delivery issues to legal persons and natural persons. The possible abuses of the perpetrators are limited, the circle of the legal authorities of the persons from which the controller could obtain information on the property of the perpetrators prior to the initiation of the proceedings, which will certainly lead to faster court proceedings under the proposal for enforcement. It is interesting to note that a special emphasis is given to the protection of the existence of the perpetrators in relation to the current regulation of forced labour on wages, in such a way as to exclude from the performance the amount necessary for the existence of the perpetrators, which is determined in relation to the average net salary in the Republic of Croatia, thus achieving that each perpetrator has the same amount necessary for the existence, independently of the net salary he makes. Otherwise, the pay performance itself shall be carried out up to one-third of the salary, exclusively up to one-half of the salary, where, in the case of payment of certain privileged claims, the same as the exception of up to one-quarter of the pay made for the payment of the child's maintenance amount. Furthermore, the proposal for a law protects the authorities in such a way as to extend the deadlines for the settlement of the demand for a final solution. By extending the deadline, the courts will be relieved, the need for the deadline of 6 months of the proposal to be applied to other cases which will be avoided very complex and I would say a set of procedures for implementing the implementation. The draft law also adopted the Union's initiative to protect a certain part of the salary. This is done on the basis of the consent of the perpetrators in such a way as to prevent the full pay from being made until the amount necessary for the existence of the perpetrators as it seems in the case of forced enforcement. And this also applies to other constant incomes. The uniformity of the proceedings of the court shall be introduced in the cases of the legal remedy lodged in such a way as to keep the file forwarded to the court for the purpose of carrying out the proceedings under appeal, appeal or application for a delay of the action following the end of the proceedings at the court. Further alignment is being made with the provisions of the ZPP, the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure. Finally, the proposed regulation provides for conditions for the application of the provisions of the cited Regulation and of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, the introduction of a European executive title for non-contestable taxes and the prevention of late payment in business transactions. For all things, I support the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Implementing Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9859	Thank you. Ms. Representative Milanka Opačić. She's gone. He's losing his word. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9860	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. As we heard in the introduction from Ms. Minister's presentation, who said the number of executive procedures following the adoption of the law or amendment 2005 were reduced. And there's no doubt about that. But please, it would have happened if he had remained in force of the 2003 Act of Conduct, which was much more benevolent to the institutions of public notebooks and all these jobs which later changed in 2005 only partially took over the public records service. We wouldn't even be talking here today about the problem of performance that continues to be the most numerous cases regarding backlogs in our judiciary. And this is the same treatment of the Council of Ministers' directive towards the judiciary of the accession countries of the European Union to seek to remove all so-called all so-called justice systems from their justice system. Unjudgmental cases. And the executive procedure is almost not a court case in the right sense of the word because it does not solve problems between the defendants and prosecutors because these problems have been solved by the court. So here we are only talking in this procedure about this intent of debt demand. It's a shame, therefore, that we waited a year, so when you see here in the score of the situation, the laws that were therefore being passed and changed were numbered. So we waited a year for him to come into force in 2004 to pass a law that abolished these changes. With an explanation, then, to point out that the public service is unable to carry out these tasks. However, it is fortunate that a year later, in 2005, it gave up. These were significant changes compared to existing knowledge, but far less changes than those that were ambitiously outlined in 2003. And these changes, which are on this track to speed up the procedures of the greater powers of public notary neighbours and even the trainees to speed up the process, are going towards speeding up the procedures of the greater powers of public notary neighbours, and even of the trainees, in order to speed up the process, are going on the trail of these changes that we have been streamlining back in 2003. Maybe some more time and we'll rewrite all those provisions. So, directly some of the provisions were prescribed that were abolished in 2004. Now here in these changes are being built in. But better ever than never, and I believe that they will improve the acceleration of this process. It is also to welcome this thing which is imposed on itself in the law of this fourth part is a procedure for issuing a European executive order on the basis of undeniable demand. However, there is something that is causing a serious debate, which is a provision in Article 17, which is also to be welcomed because it was once considered too ambitious to be a top executive in six months. For if, then, he cannot rest with all those stimulating measures that such an act is hopeless. However, here is what the Proposer is saying in his explanation and why it is really necessary to extend that purpose for a year. He says nicely that often a debtor can't, the perpetrator can't settle his demand, or he can't meet his debt to the executive because he's often owed as much as the state itself. And while these relations and all that are with each other, until the debtor of my debtor pays the debt he can't pay the executives and that it's only proved right that something a little waits for, because how much does something eventually come to the funds and that debtor, the perpetrator, who then settles that ultimate executive? This is said to be explained on page 18 regarding Article 17, and it is certainly also to welcome this extension now for a period of 6 months because of the situation in the country that we have defaults again. This is the indifference given in this article. But what's there is and it's good that the law is not abstract, but that it follows, but when it can't change the situation that at least covers that real state that it's not to welcome, but it is also this provision. But here's how you approach it when you want to be populist in the public without looking at the problems of things figure out. The provision of Article 15 of the limit on enforcement, thus also being accompanied in the media, is quite good that the applicant intends only to be exempt from the exercise if it has to collect a financial claim for child restraint, because it is so well-functioning to the public. If you don't know the essence of things and procedures itself, but even life at all, this is how everyone would accept it. What, though, about this executive who supports five more children? We'll leave him only pay, and he'll have to support five, six kids, because he may have to settle down another one, most often that kid from another relationship, because we all know what we're talking about here. And I'm asking you now, I'm asking the Proposer how this perp who has the restraints is gonna have to be stabilized here. This cannot be left to the extent that the perpetrator has a duty to support other underage children. And with what right the Proposer, i.e. This is how the government wants to prevent other children from being held back. At least in the worst case, they have to be in the same position. I don't object to a minister here, because the Deputy Prime Minister has gone into the media with such a popular and acceptable solution, and we see what it means in practice. And I am asking here the Proposer, or here, who is Madam Minister on behalf of the Government to seriously consider this situation which, I think, is putting a serious objection here in the provision of Article 15. So, in any case, we need to complete the provision. Unless such an perpetrator is required to support other minors or persons who are legally also obliged to abstain. There's been a lot of talk here that otherwise, that we're a social state, that an agreement has been reached with the social partners, that's why you can't normally take more than half the average net salary for all claims. It also sounds quite handsome in principle, however, who is the most common executive. Also poor, this is the last hope of charging this claim so that it can provide funds to support its own family. Because, please, financial institutions, banks and others do not fall under the public notary, and later on, in charge or under the official procedure. They are provided with a change in 2005 which is far from a trace and from confirmation that we are a social state when it has allowed these financial institutions to charge on the real estate of the perpetrators for the most non-bankal amount left but which this one no longer can pay. And especially now we see through these growing interest rates. Who knows how it's gonna end eventually. That is why it is necessary, it is something that the SDP has been warning about for years or years, as much as it has been the urgency that every search has to be charged, because that we must finally be aware of and our own responsibilities not only as a state, as a community, but simply and as each individual, that we do not owe more than we can later return, and then it is all our fault. But please, let the banks not go into the process at all, allow them fiduciary, i.e. Make them owners immediately. If the debtor can't pay the last war or a meaningless amount, I think it's extremely unfair, immoral and it's that the banks don't deserve it. Why would they be in a more favourable position? They're the only ones in a more favourable position, because the execution remains with all these improvements, with all this acceleration of the process. Still, it's one process that lasts. But through this procedure, ordinary mortals pass, not banks. They take away the property nicely for the most insignificant amount, and therefore we insist that there is no significant change in the law on amendments and amendments to the Implementing Law if such an amendment does not contain the abolition of fiduciarys, i.e. Disabling banks to come to real estate, a citizen of ours for the most insignificant amount. It's not fair, it's not fair, it's not moral.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9861	Thank you. Mr. Representative Damir Sesvečan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9862	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues. So, before us is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Executive Act. It is, therefore, one of the laws belonging to a group of legislative measures set out in the plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legal acquis of the European Union for 2008. In addition to the law, there is a declaration of its compliance with the acquis of the European Union and with the legal acts of the Council of Europe. First of all, it is important to stress that, among other things, these amendments and the amendments, the Implementing Law is aligned with the E.Z. Regulation. 805/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 April 2004 establishing a European order for the enforcement of uncontested laws, i.e. the search and the procedure for determining and implementing the exercise on the basis of that executive order has been established. In addition, the introduction of this Regulation into the Croatian legal system will meet the conditions for its direct application at the time of Croatia's entry into full membership of the European Union, which is regulated by Article 24 of the proposed amendments and amendments. Given that the Executive Law is extremely important for the effectiveness of the legal system, it is important to say that its last novel of 2005 introduced a series of newspapers that contributed to the acceleration of the enforcement process and to the reduction of the number of cases left behind. I'll mention and remind us of some of these newspapers. First of all, public notebooks have been introduced as new bodies in the executive procedure which decides on proposals for enforcement on the basis of a credible document. It is possible to make available information on the property of the perpetrators by prescribing duties to certain legal persons and bodies to provide information on the property of the debtor at the request of the credentials. The exercise of first-degree judicial decisions requiring the payment of claims whose principal does not exceed a thousand kunas is more precisely governed by the exercise on motor vehicles, a new institute of performance on securities recorded in accounts with the Central Depositary Agency has been established, the procedure of enforcement on the accounts of legal persons, the keeping of property and movables to be sold in the executive procedure has been simplified. Also, starting from the fact that the debtor should not be protected against other persons, as well as from him, mentioned in the 2005 novel, the full salary of the perpetrators with his consent was made possible. It is therefore prescribed that the debtor may give consent to the confiscation of his wages in part or in full when payments are made directly to the believer. In practice, this possibility has been demonstrated, I would say tragically because some debtors have brought themselves and their families to the brink of existence. It turns out, however, that some people need to be protected from themselves, especially so that their families are not brought under the existential minimum. Thus, these amendments and additions of the Executive Act to forced enforcement as well as to the enforcement of the exercise, with the consent of the perpetrators, are proposed to exempt from the implementation of the amount necessary for the existence of the perpetrators, which is determined in relation to the average net salary in the Republic of Croatia. In the case of forced enforcement, the proposal is that performers with a net salary above average can be paid a higher amount of salary than before, while the performance of the perpetrators with a salary below average will be implemented as before. Therefore, they will be able to collect up to 1/3 of the salary, except for the collection of certain privileged claims up to 1/2 of the salary and up to 1/4 of the pay of the payee for the payment of the child support. In the same way as forcible enforcement, it is proposed to protect the perpetrators and in the case of the performance carried out with its consent, to protect the amount necessary for the existence of the debtor and to ensure that the debtor would allow the payment of the amount excluded from the application does not produce legal effects. Therefore, given the above-mentioned compliance with European Union legislation and the series of improvements proposed by these amendments and amendments to the Executive Act, which the Minister also spoke of, I will support its adoption by an urgent procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9863	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9864	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. About this part of the amendments to the laws which have been tabled three concrete proposals for applicants, i.e. for the Minister. Article 15(1), which speaks of an exemption from the performance of the part of the salary after five times reading, I have managed to understand it until the end, and perhaps the Minister's proposal that this sentence, which is a whole sentence in paragraph 1, should be divided into three sentences in order to place a point in the second row behind the Republic of Croatia instead of a score and start with a new sentence. And so where it is said about 1/2 average salary, again behind the Republic of Croatia, a point and a new sentence because I am afraid that this formulation in Article 15, in the subsequent application, can be interpreted, unfortunately in accordance with our practice as gum gum, and that it would be far clearer for that item to be written in three sentences. Therefore, 2/3 of the salary is generally exempt from the exercise, when it comes to enforcement due to the legal maintenance of compensation and damages caused by impaired health or the reduction of the loss of working ability and damage to loss of restraint due to death, that it is one half. And to do this for child support is 1/4. If you read that item carefully, it can be interpreted as being written and otherwise. Now, something that's not written. In terms of pay in terms of this law, but technically when money along with pay comes to a jury account, comes something that is not paid, is not salary compensation, and I don't think it should be the subject of enforcement, and I didn't see that it's exceptional, and these are children's allowances. Maybe, I wasn't thorough enough to read the text of the law, but if the child's payments aren't excluded from this, then you should anyway. Namely, they are paid together with the salary and when the money sits on the current account from it cannot be seen whether it is a salary or, if they are excellent, but practically when the money sits in the bank account on the current account, it is in the crowd. There's no pay to be paid for a child's allowance. Only possible ex post evidence can the seized part of non-payable receipts be disputed. I'm telling you this because there have been a lot of cases, and these days I've had, where the execution took place on a child's allowance, where the bank treated it like a salary. And the third one, the question, the suggestion, and the case happened and it's happening in Varazdin. I'm going to illustrate it on this example for you to understand what I'm proposing. The bank granted the debtor a loan in a fairly large amount that he used to invest in real estate. He had a guarantee loan and all the properties in which he invested the entire amount of credit he transferred to another person and stopped paying off the loan. The bank did not want to deal with the debtor and to enter into real estate relations in which the total amount of credit was spent, but requested the repayment of the loan from the guarantees that in good faith agreed to be guarantees and very quickly exercised their right to me under quotes, and, neatly, by way of a pay delivery, removed that obligation. The debtor still lives in the same city, uses complete properties for his own benefit although there is even a court ruling in which the guarantees proved that the debtor was able to pay back, that the money was invested in these properties and that the bank failed to protect its interests because it allowed the transfer of property over the property. The bailiffs are officials, civil servants in a specific case, and under the current rules of enforcement that sat down on their salaries is such that both guarantees are as they say in women's gender, women, it's about women.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9865	It's a knick-knack.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9866	- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Both families of the bailiffs, civil servants, were brought to the brink of existence. And we're trying to help these families, but it's not going. The bank is always right and regularly charges from the bailiffs, the debtor is strutting through the city, the house built by that loan has been upgraded there. The bailiffs couldn't prove that the bank had done it if not perhaps even a intentional failure, not by ensuring such a charge. One of them called me this morning when she saw the Parliament's agenda and asked and she said, give me an example of me, my Calvary I've been going through for three years, and I've been left without property, I'm in big debt, helpless, and after court rulings, and if you can influence this kind of behavior of the law to be prevented. We haven't found any way to help these people, before these amendments and the addition of the law, in our consultation with the Ombudsman. They were played by the bank, the debtors were played and the protection for them simply does not exist under Croatian regulations. If you want and if you are really interested, and I don't believe it's the only case, I really don't believe it's the case, I'm talking about this one I know, that I've looked at the paperwork and the judgments. I can deliver this set of documents to you, perhaps there is a way not for them anymore because retroactive law enforcement is no longer available, but that, possibly by next change, we protect such citizens from such bank behaviour because there was indeed the possibility that they would collect their obligations from debtors. A low-resistance line, civil servants, regular, secure pay, and the safest way to charge. Here's my proposal for this, in future nod I realized that the child's allowance is an exception from the performance, but he's on something in practice, in the implementation of the commission on the receipts that come to a jury account or liquid citizens' accounts obviously don't fit and I assure you that the banks are carrying out the performance and the incomes that are called the child's allowance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9867	Thank you. Final review, Justice Minister Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9868	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So here is the debate today on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Implementing Law, mainly showing that the provisions that contribute to the effectiveness and acceleration of the executive procedure are supported. The basic meaning and purpose of the Executive Act is, in fact, that the believer comes and collects or receives his or her claim which is previously found to exist. With these amendments and additions other than the effectiveness of speeding up the performance itself, we have contributed to further protection, so on the one hand, it is the purpose of the Executive Act for the believer and the executive to come to its demand, but this must not and should not be forgotten about the social component and to protect the existential minimum and debtors in this case the perpetrators. This is one regulatory component or the protection of the state is also needed in these so-called so-called Voluntary bargaining because the general setting is that a zero contract which is contrary to legal order and morality is equally necessary and for reasons of disproportionate power in this case is someone who offers and lends money and someone who owes himself and who takes it in many cases it is disproportionate I would say the financial or social powers of these two parties. So we reached out to this protection, we introduced a provision on the futility of voluntary heads that are allowed and agreed to be applied to total income and wages. I also believe that we have kept this social component despite the fact that we have allowed higher performance on the salaries of those who have more, who has more and is obliged to pay their debt, because the executive has the right to demand, but for all citizens of this country, we have protected the same amount of existential minimum. And just a few words refer to the comments made regarding the protection of a quarter of the salary in the event of a maintenance payment, to the concerns expressed that will be with other children. I must say that this provision is equal to the same, identical provisions of the Family Law that are in force, and I must say and warn that this is a matter of business. Therefore, it is the enforcement of the child restraint payment after a court has already established in the second procedure all the payment and family needs of the person who has to pay for his maintenance in the previous court procedure, so there is no concern for the other children. As far as fiduciary is concerned, fiduciary is not the point. Fiducia has nothing to do with this, but there is, fiducia is a voluntary insurance court or public-book insurance, and precisely because of this disproportionateity, and I also think that this institute should be conducted by a serious debate, and maybe one day here and we'll discuss it. And one more thing to say. It's clear here at the pay phone, I nodded Agent Lesar that the child's allowance was a protected category. A child's allowance is not allowed to be applied. And we went a little further, so we tried to protect all these protected receipts that were protected as receipts, but the moment they sat on the current account, they stopped being a child's allowance and became the money in the account and went as a cash execution on the accounts. And that's how we article 18 seemed to try to bridge that situation. And I must immediately say that, in this sense, and we accept the amendment of the Committee on Law which has further improved the manipulation of this article so that it may be, not only in the law, but also in practice. And here, along with the other amendments that we have received in the text, the law of the Legislative Committee, we accept them and they can become an integral part of the law. Thank you very much. I ask the representatives to support this law because it protects the existing minimum of debtors on the one hand, on the other hand, allowing the executive further access to its demand, speeding up the process and making it more effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9869	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Minister, this example presented by MP Lesar, this should be found a solution to those situations that MP Lesar set an example.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9870	I can if I'm allowed to say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9871	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9872	In this particular case, that's exactly why the bank takes the courtrooms. So it's an extremely sad life situation. There are but I must say that the relationship of the guarantee, therefore the guarantee and the court is one mandatory legal relationship to which they are voluntarily bound and the bank is precisely why it takes the courts or guarantees as its insurance in case the main debtor makes the charge impossible. Obviously, this is a situation where the principal debtor avoids his obligations. He avoids, and that's why the bank has reached out for its insurance that you secured with the loan agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9873	Yes, she tightened the noose around the neck of the secure and the chief let her enjoy the fruits of her work.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9874	Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Executive Act, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 76. The debate is closed. The legislator adopted amendments to the Legislative Committee and they became an integral part of the final draft law and are not voted on. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This law was adopted by the majority of votes, 113 votes for, 3 abstentions and one against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9875	We're going to the next point. - Final bill on road safety, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 39 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate carried out by the Committees on European Integration, Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications, internal policy and national security, local and regional self-government and the Committee on Law. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and by representative Dragutin Lesar. A representative of the draft secretary of state at the Interior Ministry, Ivica Buconjic, will further explain the bill's proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9876	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. After the debate was held in the first reading on the proposed Road Safety Act, we also followed public debate since this law has caused great interest with the right since it regulates one of the very important issues of almost all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Government, as the legislator of the law, adopted certain proposals, remarks and suggestions, but we had to make sure that we did not question the consistency of the proposed law, and we had to keep in mind that the law was in a certain correlation with some other regulations, above all with the Law on Infringements, then the Criminal Law and with certain European directives and the European acquis, so that we said one part of the remarks, suggestions and proposals. I will briefly read to you what suggestions and suggestions we have adopted. We adopted a suggestion and a comment by the Committee on the Law of the Croatian Parliament which proposed that the provisions of Article 250(3) should be corrected in a way that states: "exceptionally from the provision of paragraph 3 of this Article" replace the words "exceptionally from the provision of paragraph 2 of this article". It was also adopted the same committee’s observations, i.e. the Legislative Committee on the provisions of Article 5(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Committee on Local and Regional, Regional Self-Government on Article 5(7) was then adopted in a way that the words "on a proposal from the Ministry" were replaced by "with the consent of the Ministry". We also adopted a statement by several working bodies or participants in a public debate. First of all, the Committee on Transport and its President, Mr. Slavko Linic, and the Ombudsman for children, referred to Article 158(2) of the Law, and here we adopted the remark in a way that Article 2(2) of Article 158 is deleted. Therefore, it was an initiative from several working bodies or participants in the debate on the proposed law. The Ombudsman’s comments regarding Article 161(2) were accepted in a way that the same provision reads: “The driver of a bicycle older than 18 years can carry a child up to 8 years of age on a bicycle if a special seat is fitted to the size of a child and firmly connected to a bicycle and if the child wears a prescribed and neatly attached protective helmet on his head. Other remarks, proposals, suggestions, suggestions could not be accepted because the consistency of the law would be violated and, as I said, we would be in trouble with this law, since the law is in line with some other regulations, above all with the Criminal Law, Criminal Law, European directives and European acquis. We have the view that such a proposed law in this final form will give the Ministry of the Interior, but also to other traffic participants a good tool to improve road safety, to raise it to a higher level because we cannot be satisfied with the situation, regardless of the fact that a certain shift and improvement of this law has passed. What I always say, when the law was passed in 2005 we had for the first time after 40 years less than 600 fatalities and that must be the greatest value of passing this law. There has also been a reduction in the number of traffic accidents and we believe that this new law will help to reduce black numbers in transport in the Republic of Croatia and to move towards that goal with this law, which is to come to below 10 people killed to 100,000 people. We are now somewhere in about 13 and a half and this law, along with a number of other measures that other institutions in Croatian society must take to come up with this planned figure because they have thus significantly reduced the number of deaths, or they would save countless lives. Thank you very much. I will listen to the debate, so if there are any other proposals in the debate that we consider acceptable, that they are necessary, we can either through amendments to clubs, committees or individual parliamentary representatives or through amendments to the Government, even until the final vote is corrected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9877	Thank you. Do the committee's rapporteurs want a word? The Committee on European Integration? The Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee? The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security? The Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government? And the Legislative Committee. The chairman of the board, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9878	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. The Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee at the 17th session held on 27 May 2008 discussed the final proposal of the Road Traffic Safety Act. The Legislative Committee supports the adoption of this law and submits to the text of the final proposal amendments which are legally and nomotechnically governed by the interpretation of the legal provisions. In addition to the amendments set out, the Committee points to certain shortcomings in individual solutions and proposes that the applicant consider them with its amendments to remove them and refer to Article 205. The provisions relate to the determination of the obligations of bus drivers and freight motor vehicles on periodic education, programme, conditions and method of implementation, and training under paragraph 2 of this Article would be prescribed by the Minister responsible for education activities, with the consent of the Minister responsible for Transport. However, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on road transport has resolved this area in a different way, although it is not doubtful that this provision will enter into force on the day of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. ... The road transport law in a transparent way has been regulated the question of obtaining initial qualifications, obligations and rights, and the exceptions to the obligation to obtain an initial qualification for which an SSO licence is issued. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The law lays down a tender procedure for authorising a legal person to carry out the programme of issuing certificates for initial qualifications and periodic education. This law does not contain any relevant provisions concerning Community codes on Community driving licences, or the procedure for issuing those licences. It is necessary that the transitional and final provisions of this law comply with the provisions... Road transport laws and the Labour Time Act, mandatory mobile workers' vacations and road traffic recording devices, this respects the supervision and procedure of authorised persons in relation to drivers and vehicle equipment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition to the above, it is indicated that there are other shortcomings, which relate to Article 5, where the statement in paragraphs 11 and 13, is to be harmonised, since it is not clear whether it is the determination or the giving of powers, or the selection after the public tender is carried out. In this respect, it shall be indicated that the provisions of Article 85 are in coalition with the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 4 of this Article. Article 13 does not indicate whether the suspended sentence in paragraph 3 relates to paragraph 1 or to either. Article 214 proposes to lay down a material provision, hence the obligation of a bicycle driver to wear a safety helmet while driving on a head, as paragraph 3 is merely a prescribed sanction for non-compliance. Article 252 of paragraphs 11 and 12 assumes that it is a matter of adjudication. In accordance with Article 286 of the statement in paragraph 3, it is necessary to comply with the provisions of the Criminal Law concerning an authorised prosecutor for the filing of the indictment. And fourthly, the Legislative Committee proposes to the Croatian Parliament to draw the next conclusion. Therefore, the professional service of the Croatian Parliament is authorised to conduct a editorial of the text of this law before its publication in "The People's Newspaper". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9879	Thank you. Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee. The chairman of the board, Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9880	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. The Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament at the 7th session discussed the Final Proposal for a Law on Road Safety in a second reading, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Committee considered the proposal as a parent working body. The opening statement was given by a representative of the applicant who, as today, made the differences proposed in the final draft of the law in relation to the solutions set out in the draft law, citing individual observations which were accepted and explained those which were not accepted. The Deputy Advocate-General for Children expressed satisfaction with the comments accepted, however, she felt that the applicant had failed to include objections that would further raise the level of safety in transport, and especially children by increasing the punishment for parents, as well as the mandatory report by the Police Officer to the Centre for Social Care for Infringements. The applicant explained that by increasing the sentence would deviate from the context of the law, and that it is an obligation to inform the competent Centre for Social Care in the jurisdiction of criminal courts, not the Ministry of the Interior. The representative of the HUP, the auto-school association, introduced a series of objections to the text of the final draft law and submitted amendments. Croatian carriers' associations have expressed a certain lack of logic regarding the provision of Article 243(9) relating to red tiles which do not exist in the EU. Members of the Committee also accepted the proposal's information that this law would not enter the 1.6., but on the eighth day of its publication in the National Journal. The debate noted that this law went exclusively to increase penalties for violations which did not contribute to the reduction of road casualties because the 2004 law also increased the value of penalties and did not significantly change the negative balance of the dead. By analysing the provision of Article 199(3), it also follows that the disputed provision on 0,00 prominence has not been abolished since, for example, a driver who has not been bound will also be punished for 0.5 alcohol spills in the blood. The question has also been asked whether the proposed solution exists in EU countries. It has been indicated that insufficient attention is given to a speed that is otherwise undoubtedly the greatest cause of the accident. It is further estimated that there was no need to change certain solutions on the use of light in transport because such solutions are also applied in most EU countries. It has been pointed out that the area of auto-school should be regulated by a special law and the question has also been raised for what reasons are the centres for safe driving not set out in this law? It is also a concern regarding the provision of Article 205 of this Act, given that this area has been established by the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Transport Act with the final proposal for a law already adopted last week in the Croatian Parliament. At the end of the debate, the Proposer was specifically asked to approach the analysis and processing of amendments to this Final Bill with a view to achieving the right purpose and common objective, which is a quality law to ensure a higher level of transport security. After the debate was held, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the Law on Road Safety in the text as proposed by the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9881	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS Mr. Representative Željko Vincelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9882	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. One of the questions that we asked in the first reading of the law was why our current role in the old law of 2004 was lost by the Centre for Vehicle Vehicles of the Republic of Croatia in the sense of the promoter or the legislator of the implementing rules in the field of technical examinations of the vehicle. The answer to the material for this second reading was that professional organization does not lose its role so far. The answer really does not serve to honor the legislator because it is not true. Here's why it's not true. The old law provides for implementing rules on the network and criteria for the existence of stations for the technical examination of the vehicle, on the test programme for the vehicle’s technical correctness supervisor with regard to the training organisations of persons for the profession of supervisors, on the level of compensation for the technical checks of the vehicle. On the verification of the competences for the tasks of the supervisor and of the vehicle registration services contained in Articles 259, 260, 261 and 271. The 2004 law is in the hands of the Minister of the Interior, but at the proposal of the expert organisation. the mentioned Centre for Vehicles of the Republic of Croatia. This Proposal for a Law in the same articles of the Implementing Regulation shall exclude the expert organisation in full. There is a minister in charge of home affairs everywhere, but there is no further addition to the proposal of a professional organisation. Gentlemen, then how can you determine that they are not losing their role so far? So they are deleted from all articles that regulate the adoption of certain implementing rules in their field of work, even in the capacity of the promoter. We therefore propose that Articles 259(4) and 260 paragraphs 3 and 261 of paragraphs 2 and 271 of paragraph 2 behind the word "Minister in charge of Home Affairs" be added "on the proposal of a professional organisation referred to in Article 273 of this Act". Furthermore, in the debate at first reading of the law, we highlighted the fact that developed European countries are systematically and fully investigating all transport factors as sources of danger in transport. Participants, road users, vehicles and the social environment of transport are therefore the majority European practice that the road safety area is normally regulated by the Ministry of Transport, not by internal affairs which are of course to be monitored and applied by repressive measures. By regulatory regulation of transport security issues by the Ministry of Transport, the importance of the situation of Croatian roads would be highlighted. Their inadequate maintenance, numerous unsanitary dangerous sites, foot-and-mouth failures and banks then outdated traffic signals. Unenlightenment by public lighting of pedestrians, city parking chaos, transport education and culture and other underrated and very important issues from the point of view of safety in transport. The Ministry of the Interior, meanwhile, is seeking to achieve an expansion, tightening and deepening of the criminal repression. Such approach by the legislator is simply an almost operational police issue of disciplining irresponsible drivers and can be resolved by spreading and tightening repression and all other traffic safety factors are second-class importance. And that means I can still stay in the state they're in. This law overestimates repression because so far we have it at a high normative level but we have shown that we do not know how to deal with it, and is underestimating some of the key elements of road safety. As a lack of political will for co-ordination and communication with science, failure to respect useful proposals of transport associations and professional organisations, crossing roads across railway lines as an exceptional sign, an extremely strong factor of accident and mortality. Unresponsibility in road work, education and prevention. For example, what are the reasons why the driving centres are not set out in this law? They were to train young drivers, and even after driving tests, they were to overcome the dangers lurking in the road. These and many other elements of traffic security would certainly be more and better regulated than the police by the traffic resort, respecting scientific research and using the profession services, mainly the bodies we had, and it was abolished by this government in 2004 by the National Council for Road Safety. Is it so good with us that we don't need national advice? Or can their knowledge and work take over on the M.O.P.? Or we go after that military education, prevention and knowledge stand, fines forward. In European countries, the highest degree of traffic safety is not the most severe criminal law. There is something else there – the high probability of the prosecution of all perpetrators of traffic offences both because of the high degree of detection of crime and because of consistency in the pursuit of persecution. This should also be the basis of our law, not the punishment to heaven completely inappropriate to our standard, but strict inspection and police supervision and the efficiency of the system through the likelihood that anyone who violates the regulation will be caught in breach of the rules and then punished afterwards. We have also made a concrete proposal for parking tickets and other violations identified without stopping the driver. Therefore, when the identity of the perpetrator of the offence is not directly established, the vehicle owner’s driver’s information that was found in the offence is subsequently sought, and a circus is created in which the owner of the vehicle mocks the system by claiming that he cannot determine which of his family drove the car that day. The proposal went after Article 229 of the Law to be supplemented by a provision on the obligation to keep records of the vehicle owner of the person who manages his vehicle. So, he wouldn't have been worth the fuss if he didn't know who was driving his car, because in that case, he would have been charged a fine for not keeping records. A very logical proposal and an effective proposal on which we are responsible that it is a regulation applicable to vehicles of professional categories and not to personal ones, and that it is not a European practice, so that it exists for private vehicles we would not even make such a proposal, and Europe certainly will not be angry with the legal provision that the owner of the vehicle must know who is driving the car. We, as well as representatives from other opposition parties, have proposed punishing drivers in such a way that the basic initial penalty for the offence is normal, suitable for Croatian salaries but that it gradually increase in case of repeated violations. We've got computers, we could do that, but the promoter's a smooth refuse. It rejects more than 80% of the remarks made in the proposal from the first reading of the law, with reason imagine that our proposals and remarks are not in terms of the spirit of the law. We failed to hit the point of the law, and it is a dramatic increase in penalties for violations which does not contribute to the reduction of road casualties, as the old 2004 law also greatly increased the value of the penalty, and nothing significantly changed. But the legislator of course won't say he's wrong. Due to drastic penalties, the law in the near future will certainly lead to new tails in front of prisons, i.e. To the new wave of exchange of fines by prison, and thousands of them now by old law and much smaller penalties await the execution of the same in prison, because they have no money to pay the fine. Not a few hundred, a few thousand. The result, most of them of course don't come to jail because there's no room in them. Of course, many will try to solve the problem at the start of a police corruption site, offer him something in the pocket to avoid a high sentence. And the famous provision on the elimination of zero prominence that has become the trademark of this law is actually only conditionally filed. Namely, if a police officer punishes you for not connecting your safety belt or cell phone and estimates that you and your alcoholics will also pay for the possible presence of alcohol up to 0.5 promiscuous. I'm done. Penalty for violations must not be a goal. More traffic safety must be achieved with prevention, but this means a lot more traffic police officers on the roads visible, not in jacks, with the necessary equipment, highly trained and adequately rewarded. Then we could say that the security of transport in Croatia is a comprehensive national strategy. Unfortunately, with this approach and this law, we can't tell. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9883	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, Mr. Representative Boris Šprem.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9884	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Honorable colleagues and colleagues. Since it's a complex law I've prepared here to read the text you're about to hear now. So, when I proposed on behalf of the SDP Club at the beginning of this session of the Croatian Parliament, and on behalf of the Government, the prime minister accepted the proposal not to adopt this law by an urgent procedure, but in two readings, I hoped that the legislator would respect at least some of the proposals and remarks made in this assembly at first reading. However, no matter which objections came from the ruling ranks or opposition lines, only a few out of a hundred are respected. This certainly is not a good and promising basis for constructive work on the second reading of this law, and we know the state of transport security. So let's just say two, three sentences about it. The application of the Transport Safety Act was passed in 2004 to increase road safety, and to reduce the deaths and deaths of the current 14 people killed to 100,000 to 11 people killed by the end of 2005. So, just in a year to reduce the number of fatalities from 14 to 11. The long-term goal was to reduce the deaths to 8 people to 100,000 residents by the end of 2010. The situation has deteriorated significantly in the meantime, and the number of deaths in 2007 has increased to about 14 per 100,000 people. So instead of reducing the total number of victims and deaths, the population is growing. Unfortunately, we can conclude that the least said application of the applicable law over the past four years has not contributed to improving the security situation on our roads, I would like to point out slightly. In view of this situation, I have pleaded for the consensus of all the political factors in this House of Commons in order to achieve a basic goal, which is to reduce the number of victims and killed in transport and increase the safety and traffic safety of young drivers and children in particular. In this context, when considering the legislative proposal in the first reading, I pointed to a number of concept solutions that the legislator completely ignored, because in the context of the bill's proposal, he did not look back on any of these, which are the following. I have warned and I have hoped to make an argument that we are not well organized in this area. The law we have now is conceptual, scientific, virtually unfounded and outdated. Especially since one matter is concerned, not only about safety but also about road safety, only one ministry deals with it and it is shut down and it cannot do the job in a quality way. That is why we have proposed and we are still proposing that the Government, not the MUP itself, consider the idea that this area, the area of legislation which is now regulated by the Road Safety Act, which includes the behaviour of road users, road and vehicle care, driver education, and not only the driver, but also other traffic participants, should be submitted to at least 3 ministries. So, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Education. We also warned when we first read that unfortunately by adopting the law in 2004 the only coordinating body that could have been expelled from the law was the only coordinating body. Now there is one co-ordinated body, it is a MUP, but only for the elements, I would say only some national programme and implementation of the national road safety programme, and the advice that has been, which has united all factors in the Republic of Croatia, is as such lagging behind and it is not good and I think it should continue to think about that plan to be one body, let it be the Government, but let it be one body at the level of the state that will be able to coordinate the transport policy at the country level. The second I warned was that this law is unfortunately based on a model of punishment and repression. This is the last time I've explained quite a bit in detail, so it is projected for 83 fines of 300 kuna, for 48 fines of 500 kuna, for 15 penalties of 700 kuna, for 29 fines of a thousand kuna, for 21 fines of 2 thousand kuna. For a number of violations I did not, unfortunately, there was even a fine of 5 to 15 thousand kuna. So far, the policy of punishment and the increasing penalties has not been achieved by purpose, and that is less offenders, less accidents, fewer deaths, vice versa, more and more. And the last time I warned you, and now I'm going to back-up one piece of evidence that's, I don't know how to take him down, but it just didn't affect the proposer to think, maybe he didn't have enough time to prepare for this second reading, but let's keep thinking about it. So in 2004, there were infringing courts of the case 300 thousand, 2005. 345 thousand, 2006. 360 thousand, and in 2007, close to 500 thousand items. So, it's not a solution in the larger penalty model and more discipline of the driver, it's a solution in combination with measures and activities. The first measure and activity of importance, by substance, as it can indeed produce good consequences in practice is, of course, prevention. What we did was, due to the poor condition of the security conditions that I was talking about a few minutes ago, increase the transport culture of the population, create conditions for quality knowledge of traffic regulations and increase the general social awareness of the problem of traffic loss. I answer, a little, very little. How specifically do we treat children’s protection? The national road safety programme adopted by the government in 23.2.2006 states that all educational institutions, starting with kindergartens and primary schools, will be subject to traffic education, but neither in school 2006 nor in school 2007. So it has been constantly and systematically pointing out for years the importance of introducing traffic education into all educational institutions, but we are not moving from a dead end. Parents, as a moral authority, play a very important role in forming attitudes in children. We wrote in the same national program that extra courses will be organised for parents and children together. And that left a dead letter on the paper. Let's just take everyday examples that, I say, we see in our settlement, and not just in Zagreb. A mother with a child of 4.5 years, so it's a child who learns to run across the road, through the zebra when the red light is turned on. Why don't we have more education on TV? First of all, on television and in other media, let us warn these parents who make such an example, for they do so that their children do suicide during and at a time when they will not be around them, so parents will not be the end of the child. Have we done anything in the education of teachers and educators for preschool and school children as a preventive action in promoting proper behavior in traffic. According to my information, except for the controversial cases in a few kindergartens and elementary schools, nothing has been systematically done either. I'd like to warn you of another piece of information. The number of children killed in the late 1990s was over 50 in one year. Now it's over 30 somewhere, but in one period, it's been a year, don't take this as a year because it was the government of Ivica Racana then on stage, so now I'm saying it. I'm just talking about the fact. Fifteen children died in 2002. It would have been better if it had died even less, but 15 children died. So, twice as much as it is now. Why? I must say, I know something about this, then as much as we could carry out the systematic actions of the MUP and the Croatian Autoclub in order to reduce the victims, especially children in transport. Among other things, the Croatian Autoclub won first place among all the countries participating in the international organisation of autoclubs, first place in the competition of children safe in traffic here in the Republic of Croatia. That was in 2002. It wasn't an accident. So I point to this practice that was good, and I think we should continue and do some results. The next measure I warned you about last time, and now I'm particularly apostropheic, it's a safe-driving institute. After having passed the driving test, the driver will need to master the safe driving programme within 6 to 24 months to gain practical skills for making driving as safe as possible. A secure driving programme has not been adopted as a sublegal act, and only one centre of safe driving has been built. However, these are not the reasons why the safety driving institute should be abolished because implementation of the safe driving programme in some countries in Europe has achieved excellent results. For example, in Austria in the period 2002 to 2006 since safety driving centres have been used as mandatory in the additional training of drivers for as safe a ride as possible, the number of accidents with deadlyly injured young people from 18 to 21 years has been reduced by about 30%. It is therefore proposed to remain in the law by starting to apply from 1.1.2013. This will allow the necessary conditions to be met for the start of serious application of the safety driving institute. So, in that sense, I also announce that, I think it will be divided in a few minutes, the SDP Representatives Club will submit 22 amendments, including the amendments. So not with the application immediately but only with the application for 4-5 years, but with quality preparations so that ultimately investors for those centres are certainly... which are very expensive, they can prepare, not that if this is now abolished by law as they prepare. With what certainty? With nothing. And he won't invest. Well, let's not do that. And the last important measure we think is a better measure than the repression itself, it's the recovery of the dangerous places Mr. Vincey spoke of more extensively, so I won't be here right now. I'll just say that after the rescue of ten dangerous places where 18 people were killed, no car accident resulted in death. So why don't the state and the road owners invest in the rehabilitation of these places anymore? And finally, I have to say, repression can't have a decisive impact on traffic safety. The repression only works according to the relapsers, so according to those few drivers who break traffic regulations and break them back and do not want to correct their behavior, and they have about 0.5. So of 2 million and 200 thousand drivers, it is somewhere around 10 thousand drivers, but scattered in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. So you should go against them with repression, not so much towards other drivers. According to other drivers, you need other warnings, etc. etc. The safety of road transport contributes more to the measures relating to driver training, raising the general level of traffic awareness, culture, raising technical conditions in transport and the systematicity and rationality in the construction of the transport system in general. The final bill of law, therefore, under the cover of abolishing 0.0 prominence for drivers in transport, does not actually solve any significant problem of traffic safety and that is the fundamental problem of this law. And as for the 0.0 alcohol spill in the blood, I categorically say that 0.0 of the dispersion doesn't actually go away. It's about... It's about fiction. [[You don't understand.]] In public, one is spoken, and in the final proposal, the law writes another. Why? Because if a driver drives under alcohol within 0.0 to 0.5 pomegranate, he doesn't commit any single offence, so a police officer stops him by random control won't be punished. In all other cases, the driver will be punished, for example. If the driver is stopped and has been diagnosed with an alcoholic strength of up to 0,5 prominence and is not bound by a safety belt or by a winter time calculation, a short light will be punished for the determined amount of alcohol in the body and for not binding the safety belt, i.e. for failing to turn on the light. In addition, such punishment is contrary to the principles of criminal and criminal law and it is discriminatory because the huge number of violations provided for by the law that the driver can normally commit can be without any connection with the fact of alcoholisation up to 0,5 prominence. Moreover, many of the violations do not even have to be related to driving during which alcohol is found to be in the blood, for example, please listen carefully. A person may commit an offence by giving another person an accessibility sign or a person who fails to replace an international driver’s licence within a period of time. That fact because he had up to 0.5 alcohol spills in his blood will cause him to pay both fines. The provisions of Article 190(3) concerning paragraph 7 are therefore contrary to the constitutional principle of equality of citizens. If I don't explain it now, I can see I don't have time, I still have to do what I think is important in the end to say. Can I have some more? How much longer do I have, a minute, two? ... Yeah, I know. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We therefore have the case that at the same session of the Croatian Parliament we will pass a special Law on the prevention of discrimination, while at the same time in another law, which is this Law on Road Safety, we will law the discrimination that nobody in Europe has, by the way, so at least said the Minister at the meeting of the Committee on Transport and Communications. We may become the subject of a European study of special original practice and a solution that no one has. It's final. The SDP cannot support this legislative proposal because it is not scientifically and professionally justified and since no comments, opinions and proposals of the SDP club are accepted in the first reading, which are of a concept nature. At the same time, we hope that the ruling coalition will accept the proposal of our conclusion: The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to provide the Croatian Parliament with a report once a year on the implementation of the National Road Traffic Safety Programme of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9885	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Ivan Vukic. Here you go. ... Who had the correction? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Excuse me. Ivanka Roksandić had a correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9886	Oh, I wanted to correct the quote of an esteemed colleague, Sprem, when he was talking about that nothing happened in school for the education of children, which is not exactly a colleague. And today it seems as part of the technical culture programme there is an entire part called transport culture from 5th to 8th grade in primary schools. So the mandatory part that is traffic culture in primary school. You also said that nothing seems to be done in preschool, preschool, or primary education and enrolment. On enrolment in the first grade of primary school in early September when the school year starts, then the traffic police almost enter every elementary school at least I have such knowledge and gives those first ones, I would say the first instructions about the behavior of children in primary school in traffic. So it's not that anything seems, maybe more needs to be done, really more young people should be warned about everything that's going on in traffic because we see for ourselves that they are usually just young causes of serious accidents. However, at the level of younger age, children, when children are to be warned about traffic, seem quite a bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9887	Thank you very much. Here's Mr. Ivan Vukic on behalf of the HDZ. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9888	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. Certain provisions of the applicable Road Safety Act are not applicable due to non-compliance with the provisions of the new Criminal Law, which entered into force in January 2001. The applicable Infringement Act gives maximum credit for three negative infringement points while the applicable Road Traffic Safety Act determines a maximum of five negative points. The applicable Criminal Code also allows the payment of fines in the amount of 1000 kuna for a natural person at the scene of the offender and shall not be entered in the criminal record, and the perpetrator shall not be considered to be punishable for the offence while provisions of the applicable Road Safety Act allow the collection of fines on the spot amounting to up to 500 kuna. Due to newspapers in the Criminal Law and the harmonisation of the Road Safety Act with the same, a new state of effective sanctioning will be established in the infringement procedure and more effective payment of fines. The important reason for the adoption of the new Road Safety Act is the harmonisation of Croatian legislation in this area with the acquiss of the European Union. The draft law harmonizes the Croatian legislation with the regulations of the European Union in Chapter 14 – Pre-accession negotiations transport policy in the section relating to the periodic education of professional drivers, excluding the use of a safety belt for certain persons for health reasons. If we're looking at the number of deaths in car accidents on 100,000 vehicles, then we have the following data. In 2000, the death toll for 100,000 vehicles was 46.8, 2007. 31.7. If we look at 100,000 inhabitants, then the number of deaths in 2000 was 15 and 2007. 14.7. Although for the past seven years, the number of drivers has increased by 330 thousand and is now 2 million and 130 thousand and the number of vehicles by 550 thousand and now amounts to a million and 950 thousand. Only for comparison with the number that in 1979, there were a thousand and 605 people killed and in 1990, a thousand 360 people killed regardless of the number of vehicle increases in transport as well as the driver. According to the above information, the adoption and application of the applicable law have resulted. In 2005, less than 600 traffic users died in Croatia for the first time since 1965, exactly 597. The proposal for a law by the term of a young driver is defined as a driver aged 16 to 24. So far, the definition of a young driver has tied up during a driving test regardless of the years of life, so that the young driver defined the person two years after passing the driving test. People in those age groups caused 30% of traffic accidents causing speed and 30% of the traffic accidents caused by drivers under the influence of alcohol. The proposed provision of Article 221 of the Law excludes provisions of a applicable law under which a young driver must not operate a road transport vehicle between 23 hours and 5 hours unless he is a friend or an older driver. That provision proved counterproductive because most young drivers waited until 5 o’clock to sit down for a car driver and unpunishedly returned home most often in bars, cafes or the like. It is also good that the obligation to attend a safety driving programme for young drivers has been lifted within two years of passing a driving test because we simply do not have a polygon to learn how to pass safe driving. The ban and management of vehicles with a blood alcohol concentration of up to 0.5 g per kilogram have been lifted. It is thus established that the driver of category A1, A2, A, B, B+E, F, G and M if there is alcohol up to 0,5 g per kilogram in the organism and has not committed any other offence, may manage the vehicle in traffic on roads. Furthermore, drivers and professionals, for example drivers in state authorities, taxi drivers, emergency drivers and all drivers whose driving is a basic profession, driving instructors as well as young drivers should not operate on roads at all if they have any alcohol in the body. Stabilization and a slight reduction in the number of traffic accidents and injuries caused by drivers with 0.5 and less alcohol permeation have been observed. At the same time, the proportion of fatalities in traffic accidents involving drivers who had alcohol from 0.5 to 1.5 g per kilogram in 2007 increased by 19.3 compared to 2006. For those reasons, sanctions for drivers with a concentration of alcohol of more than 0,5 g per kg have been tightened... is a criminal provision for drivers with a concentration of less than 0,5 alcohol and will not be penalised unless they commit any other offence under the proposed law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The law gives persons with 80 percent or more of the physical damage, or persons with damage to their lower extremities 60 percent or more of the rights that these laws can mark the vehicle to which they are transported. This accepted the proposal by representatives of the Associations of Persons with Disabilities. The provisions used about 15,000 people with disabilities. The proposed approval would benefit about 38 thousand people. The provision of Article 82 proposes to increase the fine from 500 to 700 kuna for drivers parked on the spot reserved for disabled persons. In the part of the duration which relates to the duration of the driving licence and medical examinations in clause 222, the driving licence for the management of vehicles C, C+E, D and H of the category of issue with a five-year period of validity with a mandatory medical examination is prescribed. Until now, it has only been required for categories D and H. The driving licence for the management of vehicles C1, C1, C1+E and B of drivers whose management is a basic interest in the driving instructor shall be issued with a ten-year period of validity with a mandatory medical examination. And this is a brand-new provision in this law that wasn't in the past. The use of traffic lights in Article 102(1) suggests that motor vehicles must be lit during the day-to-day use of day-to-day daylight or short-lights during the winter-accounting period. In paragraph 2, it is proposed that motorcycles and mopeds must have a short light on throughout the year. Three types of tiles are also set out in the proposed Road Safety Act compared to the applicable ones. Under one test plate up to three days, to carry out a technical examination until the vehicle is transported to the technical inspection station. Portable tiles shall be issued on a one-year period on behalf of a legal or natural person. Under three, export tiles shall be issued for motor vehicles and connected vehicles exported abroad and shall be valid for a maximum period of 30 days. The provisions of the bill tighten the sanctions for the five most serious offences that have resulted in a causal relationship in the largest number of cases with the most severe traffic accidents, which is the same as the alternative to the prescribed 60-day prison penalty provision. Five of the strictest violations and an alternative penalty of 60 days is a speed greater than 50km from allowed in the settlement. Refusal of subsistence, drug testing, drugs and alcohol, determined concentrations of alcohol in the body during traffic on roads above 1,5 grams per kilograms, traffic management on roads prior to acquisition of the right to management, management of the vehicle during the time of issuing the protection measure for the prohibition of management, so the withdrawal of the driving licence. The newspaper also introduced the possibility of revoking the driver's license because of the negative misdemeanor points collected. It is thus established for the first time that the ban on driving on roads is imposed on certain deadlines if the driver reassesssssssses the correct number of points 9 within the next five years of the expiry of the measure and the driver’s test can be re-scheduled only after two years. And to conclude, the provisions of that law seek to raise the level of professional training of candidates for drivers, in particular young drivers, and to improve the technical regularity of road transport vehicles, the inclusion of all relevant entities that can in any way contribute to the raising of road safety, raising culture and tolerance of road users, the introduction of road users' education from pre-school age for safe inclusion and participation in transport, impact on the environmental awareness of drivers and other road users, impacting compliance with traffic rules with the ultimate objective of raising the level of road safety in the Republic of Croatia. The Croatian Democratic Community Club respects this law in its second reading and commendation that the promoter has accepted some amendments, amendments from the promoters, from MPs or clubs will vote for the adoption of this law that will raise the level of safety on Croatian roads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9889	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Representative Boris Sprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9890	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Representative Vukic seems to have told me it's good to have canceled the programs in safe driving because there are no centres on safe driving. That's right. It is true that there is no centre, or if only one was made and that I would say it was made not with the care of the state, but with the entrepreneurship of one man. I don't know that man personally, and I wasn't even in that Miscevec where that road was made, so I was in the Austrian centers, so I saw what it looked like. I said, and in this presentation, I can only repeat it now, but I didn't say this. So, I said it wasn't good for the centers to be abolished by this law, but I didn't say that unfortunately the minister hadn't brought in a safe driving program in three and a half years. Why didn't he bring it? That's what I'd like to hear. Yes, but conditions need to be ensured for the construction of a safe-driving centre. You know, it's not a big deal, only if it's working. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9891	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9892	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. It is known that Croatians have been driving for 110 years because the first car in Croatia has arrived in Vinic, next to Varazdin. He was brought by a count, because only the rich could have cars. Shortly after that, so 110 years ago, a car arrived in Zagreb, bought by a craftsman, paid for by 4 thousand crowns and what was interesting was known for its car wrecks. So 110 years ago. Today cars don't just have the rich, they all have them. Many are in debt to buy a car. It's no longer a matter of luxury today, but unfortunately when it comes to car wrecks there are statistics far, far blacker than they were back 110 years ago. So let's see, the media reported what it looks like a week in April through a black chronicle. Three dead streams near Popovaca, one dead Chepin, one dead Zagreb, two dead Pleternica and Crikvenica, two dead Našice and Vinkovci, four dead Biograd, Glava Donja, Daruvar, three dead Dubrovnik, Turks, two dead Našice, Gračac, three killed Moscenic Draga, Lovrić, Gospić, three killed Zagreb, Sesvete. It's in a week 24 people died in April, and I think we were all amazed this weekend when we heard what happened in Lica, on the road Gospić-Otokac when four young people died, three of them died, two of 19 years old, one 21 years old, and this quarter is fighting for a life in the hospital. The reason for that is an unadjusted speed on the roads. The driver tried to get the car back on the wheel for 50 metres, where the wheels hit the grass along the side of the road. Unfortunately, there was no help, he switched to the opposite side of the stake, hit directly into the electric concrete pole. Three dead, one fighting for life. These are statistics today on road safety in the Republic of Croatia and it is evident that the speed of movement is quite crucial to the events on roads and is almost becoming a rule that it is an element that leads to endangerment and, in large part, it is considered the cause of the accident and makes up such a large percentage of those who have been killed on Croatian roads. The road and traffic safety assessment criteria are given over the number of deaths compared to 100,000 inhabitants and somewhere per million vehicles. In Croatia, 14.7 people were killed per 100,000 people, and the tendency is to enter the European Union, as experts suggest, that is 8 people killed. Under the second criterion, 143 were killed on a million vehicles and for the safety of transport ahead of Croatia there are 13 European countries. Surely different measures should be applied, first of all I agree with those who have talked about prevention, but also about education from small legs, but also of course it is logical that penalties come there, but penalties must not be a goal, but just with greater prevention, greater road safety should be achieved. But we must say that for those who obey the regulations do not drive fast, do not overrun, nor 50 thousand kuna certainly is a high penalty, for they adhere to the rules. They don't break regulations. All these earlier drivers that I mentioned most of them seem conscious, no one forces a driver to drive fast where he can't be allowed to cross the line. For such drivers who knowingly break regulations and who often do so, there must be of course different forms of sanctioning. However, if we look at the statistics in 2007, 700 thousand violations were reported, and for example in 2005, 250 thousand requests were filed, and only 30% were resolved, only 22% were solved in 2006, then it was rightly called the misdemeanor courts as one of the factors of ineffectiveness in sanctioning traffic offences. The traffic violations are about 60% of all cases, and then most of these items go out of date. The extended limitation deadlines, which will now be up to 4 years old, of course will try to avoid this objection that was justified. Those who agree to pay on the spot for a violation for which a fine of up to 1000 kuna is prescribed, such as a belt, a helmet, the use of a mobile during a drive or a less speeding overrun will not be recorded as infringements. So although it is believed that the penalties have increased drastically compared to the 2004 law, it is actually not true because in the current law, the penalty was written only in the minimum. In this case, it was worth the general maximum of the Law on Infringements, which amounted to 15 thousand kunas for natural persons. The new Road Safety Act precisely determines the penalty in both the minimum and the maximum for natural persons and it does not exceed 15 thousand kuna for any offence anywhere. What's the fact that traffic tickets are one of the regulators that should distract dangerous drivers from wildlings on the roads. However, when we look at the penalties with this finding that they have not changed in principle, we still have to admit by looking at the social status of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia that these penalties are drastic and unsustainable and for others that they are ridiculous. Many have advocated radical change and the determination of fairer criteria that would allow for a more effective purpose of punishment or that at least equally affecting and thus halting the savagery of the rich, means those rich on the roads but also that those who are more modest incomes, and those who have to be admitted have the most on the roads and penalties are appropriate. What we consider in the HSS even though we are aware and we talked about in the first reading that it is not possible to still implement this moment but we advocate to become the final subject of the debate is the system of proportional punishment. So the level of punishment is determined according to the property, not to the principle of those who are poor and those who are rich pay equal penalties. Wild rides, cases such as events with the Croatian tycoon are recent examples of dangers and inequalities of offenders before responsibility. We could also see a similar situation when it comes to the son of another tycoon, who for years threatens other drivers by his savage ways by collecting a hundred traffic reports from which money and connections are taken out by his fathers, powerful fathers until it ends in tragedy and such cases we have seen fairly in the last few years. Of course, their problems are only known when they kill someone or mutilate them. Even then, with good lawyers and other methods, such money will help them get away with it, and that is why we in the HSS are committed to introducing a proportionate manner of punishment. So all of this that I've said is leading to a security issue whose significant leverage should be traffic penalties for them to be effective should be just and equally hit and stop everyone. They must not be their own purpose, but there must not be a mechanism through which the state will raise money. They must be preventive regulations. Maybe some kind of Krampus that should distract people from committing traffic offences that can result in tragedy. We certainly welcome in the HSS that the 0,0 rule has been lifted because it has been shown that a person with half a blood alcohol spill shows no cause and therefore it is necessary to abolish the 0,0 promil provision, and we have proposed this on several occasions since 2004, because the 0,0 promila provision has not contributed to road safety but that domestic winemaking has died. And since that provision was introduced, wine consumption has fallen by 30%, and wine production has also fallen by double because, for example, in 2004, it was a million and 500 thousand hectolitres, and 2006. 731 thousand hectolitres. Also, if the trend of growth and the decline of domestic wine traffic is seen, and we are all in favour of the placement of the domestic product, then it can be said that domestic wine production dropped by 13% in 2006 compared to 2005. And in 2007 compared to 2005 by 11%. On the other hand, 13% more people died in 2007 than in 2006 while the number of traffic accidents increased by 7%. What is the fact that Croatian roads are among the most dangerous in the world, but not because of a glass of wine, but because of the insufficient efficiency of the state system in preventing savagery and punishing transport inculture and putting all Croatian citizens in danger of life, property and, of course, due to insufficient investment in the restoration of local, regional and state roads. In addition, Croatia is traditionally turned to the production of wine that is part of the tourist offer, and therefore the Government and the Parliament need to encourage agricultural production and tourism, which will be believed now and realized because the HSS proposal has been adopted to abolish 0.0 and return a provision of 0.5 prominence. It is certain that this law that we are discussing today will contribute to increasing road safety but it is also certain that it will not solve all problems and therefore it is necessary to listen to the voice of the profession that has on several occasions proposed exactly what short- and long-term measures should be taken to increase road safety. I also have to say that I am a little surprised by the rigors who, most of them, did not accept the remarks, and it seems to me that this dialogue between the Ministry of the Interior and the Parliament should be much more intimate and intense in order to make all the ambiguities clear if there are, because it is a good law for all of us that will contribute to increasing the safety on the roads of all our citizens. Here's so much from the House of Representatives Club of the HSS. We will support the adoption of the Road Safety Act, and we believe that the Ministry of the Interior will, in the future, coordinate a little more with the Ministry of Transport, which should also be involved in the construction and adoption of this law as well as in the implementation itself, and that it will nevertheless consider accepting all those remarks and proposals that have been made before me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9893	Thank you. We have Mr. Shime Luchin's correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9894	Thank you very much. Well, I'd like to correct an incorrect allegation. My colleague Petyr said this law abolishes 0.0 prominence. This is an incorrect allegation, for if you read Article 199 of this law, the third attitude tells you, saying that one who has 0.0 to 0.5 of blood will be punished in gain. What does that mean? That means if a cop stops you, and you're not tied up and you happen to blow and you have up to 0.5 proms you'll pay up to 0.5 proms. But you see, if you have 0.7, that doesn't mean you're going to pay, because the article says up to 0.5, so I'm surprised that you insist that this law abolishs 0.5 when it doesn't go away. If that makes you happy, then okay. Then it goes away, but it doesn't go away.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9895	Correction Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9896	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague said that due to the introduction of a 0,0 provision, the production of wine dropped almost 50%. 30 but later you said 50 in one part, but that's not true, or is not the reason 0,0 promila. The reason is a whole other nature. It's the introduction of order in the production of wine. You had a situation where grapes were imported as fruit, and it was made of wine and declared as wine of controlled origin. I can only say that the winemakers are particularly satisfied in Dubrovnik-Neretva County, as much as we talked last season to winemakers from the Jajin municipality who said they were never in a better position and said they were begging God to stay in such a position and after entering the European Union, which we will certainly enable them.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9897	Thank you. At 18.07, the time for applications expires for 10 minutes. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9898	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. I have an impression, not an impression, but I am convinced deep down that the law on 0.0 proms has been missed, and God will miss this road safety law. This law seems to be written by people who walk on the moon, not on the ground, as if they're writing people who have lost every reality with the real world, as if they don't know how many people in this country are working for. We talked this morning about a minimum salary of 2700 and a few kunas, and that's where you predict penalties that are dragonous. Ministers who don't know 17000 kuna salaries, I don't think it's any privileged salary for someone who runs a ministry, so it's responsible not for 10, 20, 30000 people who work in these systems, but for countries as a whole as if they've lost their sense of what it is now 500, 1000 or 3000 kuna for those who receive a minimum wage or have, say, a salary of 3, 5, 7 doesn't matter 10,000 kuna. In this country, which is clearly due to the oil shock, it is only that the oil has not passed 10 kunas where we have sold INA, in a country that has no energy and does not seem to want to give up taxes and excise duties on oil because I don't know if it would have frozen the most significant investments, in a country where food prices are no longer being monitored, and where it will collect 20, 30, 50% of the electricity to car insurance until the end of the year. This madness with these proposed sentences simply says that the government has no measure, and that's just terrible. It is a terrible knowledge, and it hurts, that there is no measure to this nation. You didn't have it when you proposed a rule of 0.0 prominence, and unfortunately, you don't have these measures today either. Unfortunately, a portion of the opposition voted for that 0,0 provision, as without those votes then in 2004 the law would not have passed. He didn't vote IDS, he didn't vote HSS, he didn't vote HSU, I don't think he did, but one part of you Mr. Lucin did vote. The other thing I'm trying to say is that it's even better to keep this law in place, so that rule of 0.0 has changed than to catch us as rabbits tomorrow and charge these dragons' fines. Who am I afraid to ask? Don't you, Mr. Representative, think some of us don't pay our fines. Here's the last 500 kn for illegal parking I paid this Friday. It seems to me to be the Ukrainian president. They told me to move the car. Mrs. Caparin was in the same position as I didn't charge the fine, they didn't take her car, I know very well, but to me they were just because my car was a pulse registration. Well, you can laugh, but it cost me 500 kn. The other thing I'm saying is that people would rather go to jail than pay these fines. This law is for people who drive drivers I don't know, for example. Ministers, union presidents, members of the administration of public enterprises or tycoon. Mrs. Pettir used to say that I didn't remember exactly a hundred years ago in her neighborhood only one count had a car, and now it will come or come such a time that only the Counts would be able to pay these fines. Croatian prisons are crowded, crowded. In front of them, it is time to serve the sentence, and there is about 13,000 Croatian citizens waiting for it at this time. To be clear, I disagree that in these prisons there should be conditions better than in families that work for, say, minimum wage. I agree that this health care must be at the highest possible level, but I still think it doesn't have to be better with other citizens and I don't agree that people who aren't able to pay the fine for some traffic violation are not being closed. On the other hand, the freedom that cops get to pay a fine of 1,000 kuna at the scene, so that's just as terrible. Finally, this gain that we've been talking about is punishable by people who are pronouncing, I don't know who drink two or three children of wine, beer or beer and a half, means that they're being punished as if the law on 0.0 went into effect because they committed some sort of co-infraction, for example, they didn't give up the blinker, they phoned or they weren't tied up, and then they pay the punishment for alcoholism and because they're not tied up, it says that this government, unfortunately I have to say, is as stubborn as a mule and that it doesn't admit that with the 0,0 decree many, as Mrs. Petyr said from the hotelier to the winemaker, from the catererer, so all the way to the driver has done enormous damage, and I ask you to give up this norm. So, I can drink or one of us who pays the fines, unfortunately, 0.3 or 0.4 we have promo, but if a cop catches me if I didn't give a blinker or that I'm illegally parked, then I'm going to pay 500 kuna for one plus thousand kuna for the other because I'm really drunk because I drank 0.3 children of wine or beer or one Pelinkovec would say "The Temple." And I'm begging you, let's not do this, let's not do this to people. Let's just let them breathe, so if they need to drink Hrelj's Pelinkovac. It's true, there are a lot of death cases on the roads, there should be a specific regulation of one area, like motorists. I'm working, I don't know 50, 60, and thousands of miles a year like many of you here without a driver, I'm afraid for myself, I'm afraid for others, but what's the main problem with these accidents? It's bad roads, as far as the highway goes, it'll probably be on those roads less accidents. Who can prevent accidents on the Istrian Ipsion, a road popularly called the road of death? No one unless you make a highway. Second place is these bad cars. Our cars are on average 10 years old and over. A whole series, maybe a hundred thousand of us have unregistered cars on our roads, and there I agree to take them off those roads, and from year to year there are more drivers and more cars. Today, the car is as dry a need as our daily bread, as the Bible would say. So be careful with the fines, careful with the withdrawal of those permits. There should not be more punishment in Croatia, let's say they are in Germany, and that is the case under this law. Give people wages like in Germany, give them social security like in Germany, then raise the fines. For example, in 2004 there were a million 723 thousand motor vehicles in Croatia, and today we have, 2007. Two million and some of those motor vehicles. So, over 250 grand. Maybe it'll connect someone to the standard, I don't tie it to the standard, I tie it to this ridiculous need for people to have a car. The effect of the 2004 Law on 0.0 prominence is simply none. In 2004, we had 608 deaths, 2005. 597, 2006. 614, 2007. 619 dead, though I admit, on our roads last year, there's a vehicle of as many as 250 thousand cars as, say, 2004. I personally believe that dragon punishments are not the answer, they never were. The solution is prevention. Punish a man appropriately, stop him, warn him, teach him, don't simply, so to speak on that road, rob him, for he who carries with him a thousand kunas in his wallet. But we, what do we do? We don't have the simplest measures. We ask that those who don't pay their wages, that we have had the opportunity to listen to in the discussion in minimum pay, be punished even by prison, okay, let's go even that, but let's punish those who don't pay those people who can't pay their wages. I said, 13,000 people in Croatia are waiting for the execution of a prison sentence. Well, I guess now we're not gonna give a whole budget to build new cells or new prisons in this country. If this is one perspective policy to start development by building new prisons, okay, vote for it, but Damir Cain will not raise his hand for it. What's good about this law is that they're lifted from the ban on young drivers that they can't drive from 23 to 5 o'clock, so instead of coming home at three o'clock, we've made them stay out until 6:00 in the morning and do whatever they're doing. If someone's drunk, they can drive to the driver, which makes sense to me too, not to drive him crazy behind him. And thirdly, in the summer, it won't be necessary to have lights on, which is the same good thing because the lit lights raise fuel consumption by about 0.15%, and at this time of this oil shock is also a significant item. However, there are several illogicalities. For example, a driver who gets a B category, for example in the 18th year, can not drive a car stronger than 100 horsepower or 75 kilowatts by 24 years of age, but it can, let's say, if he is 19 years old and has a C category to drive a pike of 40 thousand pounds or carry 4 wagons, and that just doesn't make sense, and it has to be fixed in some way, or by 24 years you have to drive a car up to 100 horsepower, but that's why with 21 years of age you can drive a bus where you have 40 or, I don't know, 50 passengers. That doesn't make sense either. And it doesn't make sense that, for example, the captain of a overseas oil-carrying ship, can drive that ship full of oil with 0.5 proms, or that the captain of the plane can drive an air bus with 200 or 300 passengers with 0.5 proms because that's how their law is regulated, and the truck driver can't drink a beer with us. And because of this illogicality, I also suggest that they, like the captains of ships or planes, can drink up to 0.5 promilas, but that after that, if they are stopped for them, the punishment will be 3 or 5 times higher than for others, and that young drivers can drink up to 0.3 proms because no one will convince me that if someone is in a bar by 3:00 in the morning, that they only drink coffee or lemonade. So, for the end of you who are proposing the laws of this very sentence, be serious, don't grow any swear by tree, in everything you need to have a measure, and this law simply testifies and this is its worst consequence that some in this government have no measure and that it does not want to admit that this government is able to make some mistake. And the 0.0 promila was a mistake and it should be understood and that error should be rectified understandably. Personally, because of these fines, I will not vote for this law, whether the other club will vote that is their choice, but indeed, gentlemen, for example. The fines of three thousand, five thousand, 15 thousand kunas I don't know that now I don't count them here, are the ones that our prisons and extra burdens because people simply don't have that kind of income that they can settle, or eventually it'll all go out of date and again the law will lose any purpose. All in all I think the intensity was more or less correct, but yet that fact that you do not want to admit that sometimes it is able to make a mistake, something is that irritates and then goes into this other extreme, is proposed penalties that really do not have any healthy logic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9899	Thank you. We've got corrections. The first is Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9900	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Caine said that the 0.0 bill was missed and that the effect was nothing. A colleague and you listed later how many were killed in 2004, and in 2005, you said that 2004. 600 and some people, 609, I think, next year 2005. 597, but you didn't mention what's most important, you didn't mention in 2003 that killed over 700 people, 700 people. So the law certainly sensitised the entire Croatian public, especially drivers, and certainly gave the results. The fact that nearly 100 people were killed next year in 2003 guarantees that the law was effective. And second colleague Caparin is no more privileged than you, not on the car, and she had to go, you made a joke, but in front of the Croatian public, it turned out that she was privileged, or her car was not as untied as probably yours, and she had to pay the same penalty as you. And third, this law that's before us, it doesn't break 0.0. He's just a tolerance for more experienced drivers who can have 0.5 unless they've committed any violations. The 0.0 prominence law remains in force. So this law doesn't break 0.0.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9901	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Representative Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9902	Mr. President, just like his colleague said that he had taken a friend Caparin's car who paid for zero kuna, his wife, for which he paid 500 kuna, and then I realized that my car was untied, and I paid for a thousand kuna. So I'm asking you now, who here has the privilege and who doesn't?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9903	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Kresimir Gulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9904	I'd like to correct my fellow respected president, Caine. He says this law was done by people who don't live on earth for a month. I don't think that's true. We all live on the ground. As for the great punishments, I have to, it's my personal thinking, that this law is no tax that we're taxing. This is a preventive measure. So now if we stick to the law, we respect all the legal regulations, we won't pay the laws, because it turns out that colleague Cain who's already in advance you've all said that everyone is going to commit a violation and the prisons are full, so they're not. And what you'd say about these, those punishments. So forgive me if I go through the red, and I've got the council salary, I haven't committed anything greater than a man who has 2,000 kunas of pay or God forbid I step on someone's foot crossing. So I'm supposed to go to jail twice as long, I guess, 'cause I've got a big salary, unlike the one who's got a small salary. My punishment is not greater than mine. May my transgression be greater than his, for he has a lower wage. That's why I disagree, I agree that punishments may be too high, but surely they should be for all the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9905	The only higher salary can guarantee more alcohol consumption, you can pay. We still have a correction, Mr. Shime Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9906	Thank you very much. Well, I agree with my colleague Caine, and that's true, is it, that this law has admitted, that 0.0 promila did nothing, but I don't agree with him that it's a good thing that it's been admitted and that that mistake has been removed as you've had the opportunity to hear from the parliamentary majority now that 0.0 of the prominence has not been lifted. I hope they heard it and colleagues from the HSS because they really claim it's been lifted. So I repeat the 199th article says 0.5 in acquisition. What does that mean? It means no driver, no car that, according to these articles in this law, does not have one offence or at least one minor offense. If you have this little small misdemeanor, then you're also in charge of 0.1 or 0.2 of the promiscuity, so it doesn't cancel 0.0 and the truckers get back to what you're looking for, then it's back to what you're looking for in Article 199 because they had 0.1 promil.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9907	Thank you. HSLS Club, HSU, Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9908	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of my presentation, I'm going to look a little bit at these wrong blinkers that every so many colleagues of Cain gives from this constituency booth, because once he gives that curved blinker, he causes Istria's autonomy. In my case, the car was flattered from the beginning to the end, i.e. with probably some nail and it was here near the Croatian Parliament. So let’s not waste a little time with those statements saying that someone is threatened or not threatened or someone touched someone’s car because they carry a pulse registration. I will not stand out from this pay phone here, but I will advocate that Istria is as valuable a space as all parts of Croatia, and I will never cause autonomy. So let's get that part clear about those wrong blinkers. This bill of law that we go to concrete is something better than in the first reading. So there's no clarification of the law, and that's good, because the explanations kind of talked about some zero tolerance that doesn't exist, there's no zero tolerance because zero is an empty set, because there's no tolerance, so that's good. There's no calling new drivers, but it's about the category of young drivers. So the bill was passed, so we're not left on the remarks that were made in the first reading and one part has been completed. What remains for the HSLS and Croatian pensioners' parties is a controversial punishment if the driver in the blood has up to 0.5 prominences in the event of a traffic violation. It could be possible for us to determine responsibility for a car accident, not for any offense. We'll continue to advocate an encyclopaedic division that's one lasting value that says that up to 0.5 of the alcohol in the blood has no alcohol, that between 0.5 and 1.5 of the alcohol in the blood is the drinking state. From 1.5 to 2.5, it's about the drunk state and 2.5 milligrams and then the heavy drunk state. This is what every encyclopedia knows, and it would have to be in every profession that should be respected. After all, not only the captain on board, but also one craneman who manages a several million-euro shipbuilding crane can carry loads above and above the people, or above the sections, as well as legally according to the Law on the Protection of Blood Alcohol, and no one will punish him for that, even if there was a small violation of the failure of that crane. And it's not about that, it's really not about this law. These provisions will only allow the possibility of arbitrary interpretation of this law in the event of a driving penalty and that is exactly what we at our club disagree on, and it is unacceptable for us in the long term. We have to imagine one fact when we're talking about 0.5 alcohol spills in the blood we have to say that the Germans are 0.5 and they don't have speed limits on the highways, so you can drive 250. On the other hand, we have Englishmen who have 0.8 spills of alcohol in their blood and each other have the least accident compared to 100,000 drivers, and both have the least. You won't pay any fine with an Englishman for less than 0.8 promila, but for 0.9 you'll get a warning and more than 0.9 you sleep in jail, you don't go any further, you sleep in jail. So there's a limit to where it can be and it's for all the same for young and old drivers, and it's not really about that punishment at all. I'm sorry, but I personally think I'm a little familiar with this area that it's a much worse violation of driving without a license, driving in an unregistered or invalid car, and that these are terrible risks for road safety, or for all road users. And what I'm absolutely sure is that high sentences do not in themselves create a transport culture. In fact, they even know how to create a certain uncertainty of drivers when some of the weaker experienced drivers, in case they spot a cop on the road, they all freak out and panic. And it happens for sure and you know it's happening. Also, when we talk about this matter anywhere, there is nowhere to be said or statistics on how many roads themselves and their condition are caused by traffic accidents. You know, it took dozens of deaths in the tunnels to put barriers on the tunnels or those low barriers that warn you that you have to stay in your lane. And no one has made an effort after setting those barriers to analyse whether there are more or less traffic accidents after these barriers. I'm telling you there are fewer, at least as much as I'm following that part. We've had this winter and ice on the ypsilon, we've got the slopes on the road. How much the flashiness or weariness of the asphalt affects road traffic safety is not spoken of or maintained by statistics. On Ostrovica-Kikovica, on the new side of the road you drive 100 per hour, which is perfectly allowed you will encounter in case of rain on a water pillow that will turn you well on the road, on a new road. I'm driving that road. Is that a new risk on the road? Did the designers take care of that? How much does horizontal and vertical signalling affect this? How much safety on road traffic is affected by protective fences and their regularity? We've got every so many bucks on the road, even though it's not a highway, but it has a fence, even though people say it's a fast motor road, but it's not true. The Istrian ispsion is not a fast motor road. He wants to show it like that, but it's not. She's only half the highway. If it was that fast motor road, it would never have been designed with so many bandages and cuts. She's only half the highway and she'll be a very good, great road road but then when she's on the highway. We also have a catastrophic state of parts of the state road, going from Brest to Labin. Just spend it there, parts of the county roads and all that affects the safety of road traffic. We're talking about young drivers and training them for safe driving. We in Istria can say that our young drivers are only qualified at all for normal driving. Why? So they're missing one important link in their ride. They have nowhere to learn to drive on the highway. Not only young drivers but older drivers, so we happen to have older drivers coming to Kopar and going to the highway in the tunnel in the opposite direction where we're not allowed. That's what the press wrote about, and that's an objective problem. We train, we let young drivers into traffic and they haven't tried the highway yet, and there's no obligation for that driving instructor to go with them to the Gravefield to make a route from Cemetery to Delnik that they try to drive on the highway. The highway is an integral part of all our roads, which means our young drivers aren't complete. Has anyone analyzed how much written media and audio visual media create an illusion of absolutely safe cars technically perfect. It's got six, eight, twelve airbags. Young people drink it, they read it terribly, and there's an illusion that they're absolutely safe. Safety is not in the technical characteristics of the vehicle. Security is in the driving culture, safety is in the identification of danger. This law does not speak of it, and this law certainly cannot in itself improve the culture of driving, the level of driving culture. How many video games our youngsters have been playing on computers since they were young, in their subconscious, affecting the sense of false security. Who knows when this sense of false security that he acquired as a child with a video game will produce such a false feeling in driving now with a serious car and where he will push the gas to the board. Who knows when it's gonna happen? Therefore, regardless of which this law will pass, the Croatian Party of Retired, or the club HSLS, will support this because this is better than it was, and we agree that this is not the elimination of 0.5 prominence and we have all said, fully aware of what is to be done. He wants something to change with the least of the damage and the slightest movement and that's fine. But there's one other thing. You know, according to this law, the young men who left the second shift were punished after 23 hours at home, and they don't have public transportation at 23 hours, and it's not correct and from our police, and it happened in Istria, and I know exactly who and when it happened, and if only because of that article of the law, I would vote for change, because these changes are better compared to the previous state. And at 0.5, we're going to have more trouble. Of course, for these lights, I don't have a special attitude as well as it's possible that it's only good with energy consumption that you don't use light in summer, but we've all learned and the machines are installed on vehicles, so it's not crucial, but let it pass as a change. What I want to propose at the end, we have the National Road Safety Programme and it is indeed time for us in the Croatian Parliament to have a comprehensive debate on road safety and implementation of the national programme and definitely from all aspects and from the position of age and technical regularity of the car, with an increase in the number of highways, with the technical correctness of our highways, so the overall state of roads, to discuss here and the state of transport culture in Croatia and the influence of the media on our drivers and one detail, and the impact of noise on young drivers. I learned something about it, and I know, someone who's exposed to noise for four, five hours at the disco, when he sits behind the wheel he doesn't have any reflexes, or that sense of willingness at certain risks or not focused enough on driving, especially that if it's after that kind of influence at 4:5 in the morning, which he has. A lot of young drivers drive under these impressions, all of these other elements already spoken. So, we will propose here to the Croatian Assembly of the Club HSLS, HSU to hold a debate here on the implementation of the National Road Safety Programme for 2007 and to hold a comprehensive debate here because of what life issues are for our citizens never enough to discuss and never enough good messages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9909	Thank you. We have a correction, Mr. Shime Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9910	Thank you very much. Well, it's an incorrect assumption that this law has suffered major changes in the second reading. My experience, I read it carefully in both the first and the second. My experience here says that this is one of the few laws that didn't really respect the minimum to show good will from the first reading. After all, Mr. Hrelja, the minister himself said on the board that only one change was made, and that was about children, one child, two children, binding. At that time, the minister said one more thing, which is that Croatia is the only country that has defined blood spills in this way, so 0.5. We're experimenting again, and we're not ready to accept the things that have been established and that have tested the results that you've been talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9911	Correction, Mr. Representative Boris Shprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9912	Thank you, Mr. President. The esteemed representative of the Hrelja, therefore, on this same claim that the gentleman, the esteemed representative of Shima Lucin, said, that this law in the second reading is better than that of the law in the first reading. So I'm correcting it in a way that I'm quantifying, so in this range of 0.1 to 1.5, I'm going to say that this law in second reading is better than that in first reading that I've been able to calculate by exactly 0.1.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9913	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, all clubs are over. There's eight singles left and one five-minute club. I think we could interrupt today's debate and continue tomorrow at 9:30. We have nine colleagues, the first Mr. Shime Lucin, then Zivko Nenadić, then Luka Denon and so on. Have a good one. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, good morning to everyone! We continue the session, with this session. The notice has one. The meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development will be held today at 14 o'clock in Josip Jelačić's hall. The center. And now we're continuing with the agenda point that we broke yesterday, the final proposal for a road safety bill. The first is Mr. Representative of Shima Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9915	Thank you very much. Well, here's what I'd like to say at the beginning. I think we could have used this debate better. What dissatisfaction? Well, by keeping a large part of this debate out of the public eye. And if we had this debate in a direct transfer, we could certainly help raise awareness through that debate, and if you want traffic cultures. Therefore, the awareness of the responsible and the need for more responsible behaviour of all transport participants. The second thing I am also dissatisfied with is the way the proposer proposed the final bill. So nothing important, nothing important from the first reading was adopted except for one single remark. So we could "de facto" and have, like, only one, one reading. I hope with the amendments there's going to be something different. But I would also like to express my satisfaction after last night's debate, which is that, after certain misunderstandings, we all agreed that this law did not abolish 0.0 of the past except for the HSS Club. So everyone who spoke yesterday is aware that this law does not end 0.0. That that provision remains. Why does it matter? So because the public created an atmosphere and thought that this law, that this law abolished 0.0. I remind you of Article 199(3) of the Law, which states that in the acquisition of the one who has alcohol in the blood up to 0,5 permeates commits an offence. So if the police stop you, and you don't have the right one, you don't have the right one light, or I don't know you're not tied up, then you're responsible for that if you have up to 0.5 permeations in your blood, which doesn't mean if you have over 0.5 permeations that you're going to answer. So that's what's important. So what does this new law bring us? This law only brings us new results are "dracon" penalties that we will actually see if it will give us any effect. I personally think that it will not give any effect to some of the experiences of the past and not just our experiences, but the experiences that some other countries have had. What I'm holding, and I think we could agree on more success or better results when it comes to traffic security, we won't and we can't achieve just amending the law. And especially not this kind of law, which is, above all, a repressive law. I think we should discuss the situation in Croatia today concerning transport. My thesis is that the situation is alarming. It can be manifested at multiple indicators. I will remind you: 6 thousand 472 people have died in Croatia in the last 10 years. So on average, on average, more than 647 people die on roads annually. That number's moving somewhere over 700 to, say, somewhere slightly below 600. But the problem is also trend. The data indicates that in the fourth month of this year compared to the fourth month of last year, 30 people died in traffic more precisely 31 people are actually talking about the alarming situation and trend, the trend we have. I'm not actually talking about the situation in the fifth month. Here tonight, or this morning, two people in traffic died in traffic. It seems to me, in fact, that the situation is so serious that one law in particular that "de facto" narrows down the responsibilities, procedures and jobs of only one government body or in this case the Ministry of the Interior will not be sufficient for this situation to be corrected. I think this situation actually requires that, simply the entire state administration so government, more ministries, so if you want a wider social community to get involved, include it in this story. I'll remind you of some European examples. For example, some time ago in France, it was also estimated that this was one of the key problems. That's when President Chiraque actually put the problem of the dead and the accident in the traffic as a priority, as a priority to his policy. And I have to tell you that in a very short time, he has achieved certain results. Unfortunately, instead of spreading the number of people responsible and those who can influence and regulate, regulate and contribute to greater traffic security, we narrow it down. De facto, we've kicked out this law and the Ministry of Transport, the good part and the Ministry of Education, and we've given everything to the Ministry of the Interior. I don't, I don't think the Home Office should work in the field of traffic security. I don't think anybody's gonna say that. But I don't think that's enough. Given both capacity and knowledge, and knowledge and opportunities. So I would like to appeal that at least, if you don't already go through this law that through the National Road Safety Act, you actually try to do something. I hope the SDP has gone with one draft conclusion, which is that this Parliament is actively involved in the whole story, so that at least if we don't hear anything else once a year about the national programme. I'm going to remind you today we have 1,000 people 14.7 killed, so last year. This year, if this trend continues, we'll have more. I don't have to tell you how catastrophic he is for the fifth month. So he records a huge growth compared to April. The other thing, I think that this, that we need to talk about this program in a way that we can avoid any kind of politicization, so if you want one whose authorities killed them more or less. I think that's the kind of argument, that's the kind of debate that's crazy. So I hope you'll accept that conclusion because we'll just get a chance to go public and we'll say what we think about it here. And maybe we can come up with some kind of solution. I would also point out that when it started with the national programme, the number of deaths per 1,000 people was 13.8%. So, worse than we have after all these years of running that program. No one here can convince me that the government's target with that national programme in 2010 will reach 10 dead per 1,000 inhabitants. It's actually impossible, because one of these laws can't be based solely on repressive measures, which de facto doesn't know the prevention and doesn't prescribe if you want to even prevent kindergartens through schools, so I don't know the citizens. So let's say why it wasn't thought to try to pull this whole story in a certain way into the NGO sector. So I appeal to this problem, the problems of almost 6 and a half thousand lives in the last 10 years, that we will not have so many more or no more deaths in traffic in the next 10 years. So I'm not talking about injured people, I'm not talking about disabled people, I'm not talking about material damage. The European Union estimates that the direct and indirect damages in the European Union countries are more than 180 billion euros annually. Watch out, 180 billion euros. It's huge money. Unfortunately, in Croatia no one calculated it, and I hope that one day we will have to calculate it. And in fact, if we agree, and I accept that goal as 10%, but I don't believe it, and no one can, ten permeates, no one can convince me that it will be achieved for a simple reason because the trends are still this year. So let's think about including as many subjects in the whole story as possible, and whether one punishment is going to be for this one or that offense I don't know 1,000 or 2,000 kuna I don't think it solves the problem. Someone's gonna say yes, so the people who commit the crime should be fined. Well, I agree, but that's not enough. Punishment in itself, repression in itself has never produced results. In 2004, you fined one-on-one. We haven't had any effect on this punishment, because we've had an upward trend for the last two years. We had a year after the law was passed, and I really enjoyed going. We've fallen below 600 dead and that number's still going down. Unfortunately, a year after that, the number rises. Then in 2007, it's growing. In 2008, I hope it won't grow or grow as rapidly as expected. So, I'm done. At least let us adopt this conclusion and another proposal. Perhaps the following should be considered, that as some European countries have made it a little bit different to approach this problem, so that it does not all come together in one law. In fact, to break into several laws to separate technical conditions from education, education and technical conditions from security. This would actually involve a greater number of subjects and, in such a way, create perhaps one atmosphere, and so to speak, extend the circle of the responsible who would in different ways participate in raising transport culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9916	Thank you. We have a replica. First Mr. Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9917	Thank you. I agree with the conclusion that this can't be solved by just one law and I think it's a big mistake that the public has created an impression that it's only the 0.5 prominence, that the whole point is at least as perceived by the public, and in the end it turns out that it doesn't actually end if you've committed any, even the slightest offense. It turns out that Croatia is according to the number of deaths, which is about 650 people a year in the permanent war. Now the question is who he's at war with. So, the people of Croatia are killed. It's some kind of weird war. You don't have an opponent, we're opponents of ourselves. The fact is that the community must therefore find a way, I'm not saying that it's simple for all efforts, and therefore I agree with this thesis of fellow Lucin that this should be covered by a broad action that I'm not going to say to reduce it to a law that thinks that with repressive measures and dragon punishments can make people aware that they don't enter into that kind of violation that leads to death. So, in some ways, the demographic structure that we often talk about in Croatia is threatened by the fact that Croatia continues the war with itself on its own roads. The situation is alarming I say all together, so those who are in power above all need to work to make full efforts so more ministries, complete communities than education, prevention and further try to change it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9918	Thank you. Mr. Shime Luchin's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9919	Well, actually, that story about zero went through me is very significant. Why? Croatia will enter some annals or history of road traffic safety legislation, as the only one therefore invented something new. So no country according to the minister himself has such a solution. Now, why do I think this law is politicized? So actually because this solution that we have, so let's go, let's just cancel out a little zero, so we're not going to cancel a little zero. In fact, for the simple reason it is a political compromise, but I think the topic is too serious that the whole story would be reduced to just that and that political compromises and somehow, if you want to politicise at least when it comes to fellow Jurjevic about this law is not good. So let's go to Europe, there are solutions in the world that actually aim at me, aimed at the essence of the problem. So why would we actually apply these solutions, modify according to our terms and go that way. It is not clear to me why we insist on the only repressive part of this problem, and we cannot include prevention.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9920	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9921	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucin, I agree with you that it's actually not good that the education system has been left out of this whole law. Namely, repression can bring results, however in this case no. It is okay to remain in force, in fact, to ban, that is, the provision of zero prominence for young drivers. However, we still see from the media how young we die. In addition, the contradiction is that especially over the weekend when the smallest traffic is that right then the most young lives go away. I have data from Dubrovnik-Neretva County when we were doing research, it may actually be for other county examples, and that is that when we look at the proportion of alcoholics in the total number of road users, then they are actually from the youngest person, they have the highest percentage of that. In addition, if we look at the structure of alcoholized road users, in traffic accidents, then we see that this is the same age most often represented. And today is actually the contradiction that we're passing this law, so we're continuing with 0 proms, which I welcome, of course. And on the other hand, we watch beer commercials, we watch alcohol commercials every day, and we wonder if it's really our education, is it our prevention of alcoholism? Youth alcoholism is a big problem. I think we just can't do this kind of repression, but we have to work to prevent the alcoholism of young people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9922	Mr. Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9923	You're absolutely right. I know the secretary of state is going to say, well, there's supposed to be some kind of policy co-signed by the minister of education, but there's no way that the Ministry of the Interior who, I say the holder of this law is thinking about it and organising, say, a university or an election course in high school at least, if not in the primary schools of transport culture. This is known in most European countries, not to say in American countries. No, be careful to specify in detail this law and to regulate road construction and road maintenance failures because the Ministry of the Interior is not a business, as well as signalling, especially lying signalling. Therefore, this should be included in these technical conditions, as you will about technical requirements for vehicles, and I should also include the Ministry of Transport in one broader volume, not at the level of the Regulations and sub-signatures as provided for here. Why, for example, wouldn't Croatia, like some other European countries, have a special law on the education of transport participants? So, where everything would be covered, not only in auto schools, where car schools would be defined, where youth education would be defined, so children as well as those who are frequent traffic offenders. So I think this is a very complex and much more complex matter than it can be read from one law. The police have too much to do in the sense that they have to ensure the implementation of traffic safety to deal with all those things that also affect safety, and they are not directly connected to the traffic flow itself, so they are not connected to the road.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9924	Thank you. Zivko, the esteemed representative of Zivko Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9925	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This is one of the laws of the subject, as well as football, we all know everything. It's actually understandable because we're all involved in traffic. Either as drivers or as passengers or as pedestrians. We are indeed all involved in traffic, and it is understandable why this topic is causing so much debate and disagreement. I believe that the current and current road safety law is good with these improvements, and in order to be better in some shades of my own, of course there is no law that could not be better, but I really think that with these improvements, with these changes he is much better than before. This law is shown in public that it's only 0.0, I think it's not and it's a little unfair. I don't even think that's the most important thing about these amendments to the law. I think that, let's say, a few of the things that we have in these changes, which are suggested to be just as important, such as the improvements for disabled people, as the first reading noted when it comes to greater child safety. I also find it very good that that thing for young drivers from 23 to 05 was abolished because it was a really bad suggestion. Also, redefinition young driver is also much better now. Now it's really about young drivers, not new drivers. I also agree with the use of the light only in the winter calculation of time because summer time is not so necessary, and, of course, fuel consumption and environmental protection are increasingly important to us. There's a lot to talk about and the level of punishment, I'm also a traffic participant several times I've paid the fine and the penalties are high. And yesterday, there were discussions and comparisons about how the fines were, but fewer traffic offences, especially with the death in Germany, England. I agree with that, but unfortunately our driver's awareness is not at that level. Unfortunately, it's not at that level, and my belief is that without greater penalties, there won't be any greater order so quickly, and that means there'll still be too many deaths on the road and when one dies a lot is, but what's happening now is too much. So, I generally support these changes, they are a significant improvement, and this is a living topic, a living matter that can be discussed every day and why not in due course if it comes from discussions both from first reading and from this or in public debates or from the professional public, why not always fix it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9926	Thank you. We have several replicas, but before correcting an incorrect quote. Honorable representative of Shima Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9927	Thank you very much. Well, it's incorrect that we all know about this law because we're all involved in traffic. Because if that were the case, it would be in a certain way and dangerous. We all have to talk about this law for a simple reason, because you and me and your child or, I don't know, someone else's could get hurt, could be the innocent victim of some maniac. That's why we need to talk about it, that's why this story is important, not because I'm a traffic participant.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9928	Thank you. Replica. Dear Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9929	You've made a good colleague claim that this is indeed one living matter, but often the consequences are not alive, but unfortunately they have a fatal outcome. Our roads have become unfortunately sites, mostly youth sites, almost killed on roads as in war, and that's something everyone needs to be worried about together. So when you say hello to this idea or solution, the permission to abolish 0.0 promila should be notified to the public not to be confused and distracted, but I believe that this solution that is now being put into law is not primarily on the trail of basic postulates of punitive actions, and let us not forget that the offences are a kind of criminal action, that they must have a causal relationship. You don't punish driving with alcohol content up to 0.5. It's usually quite normal. But you see, if there's a car accident that has nothing to do with alcohol, then that alcohol is included. So where is the basic principle of guilt and causality? There are legislations, but then it was meant to go on this trail to define driving itself in an alcoholic state, but then define when it's an alcoholic state, most often from 0.5 or 0.8, and therefore driving itself as an abstract danger regardless of the consequences. This way we have a mixture that seriously violates the basic postulates that have never been violated in our criminal law in the broadest sense, and I say violations are also the kind of punishable actions that must take care of these postulates. So we have an absurd situation and the question is in general, the issue of constitutionality and the provision to punish someone for something that is not in a causal relationship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9930	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Zivko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9931	And I agree the consequences are fatal, unfortunately, and if they weren't, they wouldn't be talking to me about it today. So now we have, we still have until we change, that 0.0 is in effect. No tolerance. Now we're going, and I agree with that, to 0.5, to one in a sense limited, therefore, not a complete release of up to 0.5. But we'll try that too. We'll try that too. We have to try all possible sanctions to reduce the deaths, not just the deaths, but the various other injuries, injuries, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9932	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9933	My dear colleague, you said that the definition of young drivers is now better in this law than the old one. It is not better, it is completely discriminatory and contrary to the Croatian Constitution, and it is recognised by the proponent in the explanation that the provisions on young drivers are not contrary to the Constitution, since the Constitution does not know the prohibition of discrimination by age. So they admit discrimination by age, and they say it's not subtle that the Constitution doesn't know it. Second of all, you said there would be no order without punishment. Penalties and repression so far have not yielded results. In the old law, as you yourself have said, for these new drivers, the conditions were significantly more repressive, the penalties were significantly higher, and the number of young drivers killed, or those who, in one way or another, injured in traffic accidents, increased despite these truly dragonous and penalties and conditions in which they could approach the ride. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9934	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Zivko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9935	... Young people usually die. [[Specially enabled.]] I'm also convinced that punishment has a certain effect. If there was no punishment and who said there wouldn't be any more deaths and others, and they weren't great punishments. So, I'm convinced there would be even more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9936	Thank you. And a replica, distinguished representative Borislav Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9937	Mr. Vice President. Here, on the trail, I think I was going to say something about Mr. Nenadic's supplementation, and on the issue of prevention, the repression that is now being discussed here is whether. And I see that he touched that question, so I'm only going to say on that trail that prevention as such exists, it's in the legal sense that we have to respect, especially if it's about young people. If that's where the dealer says he can't sell liquor to someone who's 18 years old, then if it's fixed, then we've introduced it, we've got something preventive. But then we punish him well and fat if we see that he did it, because repression can be a prevention, because he'll think about it if he pays a lot of good and high punishment whether he behaves the way he behaves or has acted so far. The point can be that. Why what my colleague Lucin said, why you're only talking about repression, or repression can be a prevention in a certain sense. Let's do something. Let's punish whoever's driving over 130 on the highway, punish whoever's driving 50 kilometers more than they're allowed to. So let's do something about it. So prevention exists, but let's take repression as well as prevention, if it doesn't go in this sense respecting the law, etc. But you'd agree in this one other part, and that's a little educational for young people. I'd agree with that for sure if, well, a little more education wouldn't hurt, not even here. But don't just tell your colleague Lucin about the repression, so... And this part of the repression can be prevention. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9938	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Zivko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9939	I thank my colleague Matkovic for supplementing me, because it is not only this law that will reduce the consequences of traffic accidents, but also prevention and education, which is why I mentioned our consciousness is not so. According to colleague Matkovic, it is given to young people to drink. I read in Free, they gamble young people, so they make money, so the police bring them in. Traffic signs, here I am publicly saying, are very badly regulated. I drive a lot, so I see. The repair of roads therefore has many, many more elements than this strict regulation and cruel punishments here. There are a lot more elements that, I would say even as important as these preventions and these penalties. Just as important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9940	Thank you. Before continuing with an individual debate, one notice. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are convened at the 3rd session of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development of the Croatian Parliament, which will be held on Wednesday 28 May 2008 at 14:00 at the Josipa Jelačić Hall. The chairman of the committee, Dragica Zgrebec. Thank you very much. We're continuing an individual debate. Honorable representative of Luke Denon.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9941	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Of course we will all agree that the alarming situation is in security on our roads, that the government, I would say, and I would agree with my colleague, a bit of a war situation, and we expected from the law that speaks of road traffic safety, which is the continuation of a law that we already had that will try a different way of solving this safety on our roads for the satisfaction of all of us and that we finally settle into countries that will have a minimum number of deaths per thousand inhabitants. Unfortunately, the dead will always be. But as we have heard in the debates so far, it all comes down to two findings, and that is to increase and such great punishments, so it goes to the repression of dragon sentences. It is known that repression has never produced fruit, so neither will this time. We also came to the agreement that no 0 has been abolished and that it remains what I welcome because it's okay. It will be simply interesting to listen to or read the media now after this session or after we adopt this law that the majority of the majority will explain that they have not abolished 0 alcohol and that one of the dependent partners will argue that, however, it has been abolished, so it will be interesting to read but I think it is good for our citizens that we have finally established and agreed that 0% of the alcohol in the blood, 0 alcohol spills in the blood does not stop. And I think it's okay to drive pretty sober. We also warned, of course, about this law on board that there is little to be addressed about the wider one social activity, especially about the education that needs to be implemented from some early age with children's kindergarten programmes and the introduction of a mandatory class in primary and secondary schools, in order to acquire a transport culture and raise responsible participants in transport. Of course, our request has not been accepted, but we have been warned that somewhere at the beginning of this law, it is said that Article 3 of the Ministry of Education's responsibility for education is to start with educational programmes, starting with pre-school institutions, to include the content of appropriate age which is intended to train for safe participation in transport, and to promote and raise the level of transport culture. Now you should just say when. As we had a few days ago a debate on standards in school, we found nowhere to be able to find that the ministry of competent authorities would put into mandatory programmes something called training for safe participation in transport and promoting and raising the level of transport culture. Maybe we should add some kind of deadline for that ministry, not to wash our hands from the ministry now, from the police, so that now these others, here's what they'll do. Let's give them a deadline so we can say within a year, and then we can ask that other ministry why you didn't do it in that time. It's also a startling fact, and I was really surprised by the minister's answer when we asked him how that half mouse was half... He said that when we had a direct inquiry somewhere in European countries in such a way he said no, of course we were trying rabbits even though somewhere at the beginning of this P.Z.E. The law states that this legislative proposal harmonizes the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union and provides a declaration of compliance with the acquis of the European Union and with the legal acts of the Council of Europe. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since it is nowhere in Europe, it is obvious that we are not in agreement then and have not brought it into line with European Union legislation, although it is the opposite. Also, I will agree with my colleague Maria Lugaric about the category that says they are young drivers. I know that we all have children and that young people often die but these repressions are because only repressions and dragon punishments will not prevent greater mortality on our roads. And it really bothers me how these young people are treated. In that old law there were young people who had passed a driving test for the first time in 40 years, so for two years they had to be involved in this traffic, and here young people are treated as drivers from 16 to 24 years of age and reason, so it's about young people who put their reckless traffic procedures in danger of life and health, etc. They're being treated as thoughtless. Thank God we've lifted the military deadline. We don't have a military obligation. And even if we hadn't ended it, then those 18-year-olds, those same youngsters, would have been thought out if they were sent by God, but it could have happened in some kind of war. Then we'd be healthy and we'd be thinking 0.5 or 0.5, anyway. Also, as far as I know, we have the right to choose and be elected. Hypothetically it may happen, hypothetically I say, that a 20-year-old may be Prime Minister or President of the Republic because there are no other restrictions in our Constitution, but on the road then he's reckless and here he could be thoughtless when he's Prime Minister or President of the Republic. I think these are things that we should take care of, and I don't think that way we're going to make young people less deadly in that younger population. I'd also like to refer to some of the things that I've done in my court of law. Maybe they're not naharadic, but it's a nakaradic explanation. It's where I heard it's working, it's turning off the lights in the winter, it's summer, it's good now because we're protecting the environment because we're gonna spend less fuel in the summer if we don't turn on the lights. I'm not a technical profession, so I don't believe it, I don't know how true that is, but then why don't we spend it all year. What we can spend in winter then, in winter we are more wasteful and we can spend. But I also don't understand the explanation. We asked on the committee of legislators who suggested why we do this, why now that we're used to lights on, why now that car manufacturers have started importing cars that have that function that the lights are constantly on, why are we changing it now? Well, the answer was quite alarming, I thought this was the Croatian Parliament, that we were passing Croatian laws for Croatian citizens here. The answer was like this, you know, there are some countries in Europe that we have tourists coming from, I don't know how many, maybe a hundred per week that are going to spend their summers in Croatia because of them, so they're not being punished. And I said let's let them go, let's let those tourists go, let's not punish them, but let's keep our citizens safe because by forgetting the lights, they'll go to Slovenia, Italy, then they'll pay the dragon penalty. They also told me that if you didn't have the lights on in the summer, if you forgot them or technically you didn't have the opportunity to rule out that they wouldn't punish you. That's not true. In Article 102, he says, "On motor vehicles, you should have or should not have in the period of winter reckoning of time, and then he says: "...with a fine of 300 kuna, you will be punished for violations of the driver if you do contrary to the provisions of this Act. So if I forget to turn off the light in summer, I will be punished by 300 kuna. Who do we make the law for? For these foreigners, a dozen foreigners who will come, who in their own countries or for our citizens. So let's try at least, this one, li-la, no decision, let's try it somehow different, or let's leave it whole or let's turn off the lights or turn on the lights as it used to be at dusk or at some other time. I also have another example of how we tried to do some other things that really don't make sense through 0.0 of the promiscuity and the dragon's punishment. Try me here, Mr. Buconjic, try to tell me, Article 76, that's what we are now, what a colleague would say, we're all drivers and we're all smart, right, but try to explain to me I'm now as a driver and all of us in debt, here's just another sentence, I'm sorry, on the road outside of the settlement before entering into an unsightly and narrow bandage or before coming to a bandage where it's difficult to pass, I'm obliged to give a sound warning that needs to be reduced to the necessary measure. Ha, what does it mean now, or I'll be punished with 200 kuna? Which means the necessary measure, I'll ask you nicely. [[Intruder: Bring the end.]] So behind the bandage, the police are gonna be waiting for me, I am stronger, I kind of put it down, so just give it a chance to agree that it has something to do with Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9942	Thank you. We have several corrections, one correction of an incorrect quote and five replicas. First of all, the correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9943	I thank Mr. Vice President, my colleague said that the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports is not paying enough attention to the problem and that there is not enough at the school of education on traffic safety. That's not true! Why? Because through the subject of technical culture from the fifth to the eighth grade, you have traffic safety. The second thing, you have competitions, you have school competitions on traffic safety and state competitions, so at country level you have a competition of children, a state-run competition on traffic safety. Thus, it is very much present through extracurricular activities and through the subject of technical culture, therefore, children are facing themselves in a way that is very accessible to them to discuss traffic safety. And a warning of everything that follows with regard to traffic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9944	Thank you. And now we move on to replicas. The first one is the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9945	A colleague of Denon rightly wonders whether this bill will contribute to road safety. I think the question above all is the question of the consciousness of all of us proposings above all, as well as of us who are the ones who bring the law to our senses how aware we are of these social dangers. If you have politicians today who boast at what speed they have come from their place to Zagreb, if you have to go down the highway because you are driving at a prescribed speed of no more than 130, so that you are not picked up by the order of the vehicle, then what kind of message we are sending. Or this law for ordinary mortals, were those victims in it later, if they were wrong about such a law or were perpetrators. The fundamental question here is, and you rightly point out a colleague, is the light like this, is the light like that and there is exhausting the good part of the law around these less important things. The fundamental message of the law was to reduce, or prevent, the savagery of roads. Bajato and savage behaviour, which more crosses the area of even traffic violations and traffic delinquency and must fall under serious crime. That's why it's impossible to change this violation law without changing the Penal Code. In which such an act of rampage on the roads, driving in an alcoholic state, so over 0.5, with a fatal outcome, will be equal to murder. It's a real solution to things, not that we're exhausting ourselves here around the eye, whether it's trumpeted for 5 seconds, 2 seconds, 3 seconds, where then it's big, whether the philosophy of those who apply the law comes to terms, and we're still going to have tragic consequences, or our roads are going to look like sites.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9946	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Luke Denon.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9947	My fellow Members, you have absolutely right, first of all, I have tried to say how pointless it is to deal with such things in this way legally, and that is fundamentally, and that is what we all at the beginning of this debate, including the members of the majority, that it should act preventively on both young and all other drivers in society to behave differently. I can also agree with you that part of the local self-government has this consciousness that has been developed, so let's say in my Primorje-Gorski County very well operates traffic security advice, which is one body, a congregation body where the Primorje-Gorski County and I believe that the other counties of local counties give money to carry out through technical culture, what kind of education, so that young people are educated which means traffic. But it's not enough, it's not systematic. I therefore insist that in Article 3(2), that ministry which is competent to introduce it as a mandatory school subject. Because that way, for sure, not only will the safety of road traffic contribute, but it will contribute to a healthier society, because it is obvious that this society is not very healthy when these things happen. And it's not just a reflection of the indiscipline or the revolt of young people, or of the rebellion of young people on the roads. It is obvious that in society there is a deep crisis that, even in this way, education in schools can, if anything else at least eases.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9948	Thank you. Next replica, the esteemed representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9949	Thank you very much. A fellow Denon, however, there is one situation where drivers will be able to drink a glass of beer or a glass of wine, and this is the situation where according to the register of misdemeanors, therefore, parts, or misdemeanors of this law, therefore, they are not, therefore, not with them in... That means if you have adequate pressure in the spare tire, if you don't miss a light bulb in the spare set then you can possibly have a glass of wine. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't believe that if the police will, they can't and won't find at least one offence in this catalog. Unlike you, I don't think it's a good thing it's going to be 0.0. Because I think, however, that from 0.0 to 0.5 permeations are not so much, so it's not that much alcohol in the blood that significantly determines crimes, pardons criminal and criminal acts. I'd rather be in a way to treat alcohol speed because speed is the basic reason and cause of car accidents that we talk about very little. I don't mean that alcohol, that alcohol doesn't matter. So you can drink a glass if you have a 100% correct car and you drive 100% by the book. Then you won't be punished.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9950	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Luke Denon.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9951	My dear colleague, I agree with you that 0.5 has passed this way by treating as you say it will be or will not be. But rest assured, be assured that officers or police who exercise control will be safe, but that is what I know, for every stop when they find something, you will certainly blow. It's definitely because this law is also a dragon's drastic punishment and it's kind of an obligation of this law. I'm against the fact that one of these non-European articles of the law, I'm non-Europeanly repeating it because nowhere in Europe is it going to be introduced as a law, as a legal obligation, or let's not have zero or let's have 0.5 rather than a conditional half mouse... This is mine, the whole debate comes down to how if we want to be part of Europe then, as it says here, that this is in line with European legislation, then we are in line with EU legislation and not like this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9952	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9953	I believe that the purpose of this law should not be, so if someone gets it wrong or gets it right, so the aim of this law should not be to charge the state's register but to prevent people from getting killed, that what less is dead on the roads. The fact is that we said that our goal is 10 dead most, not that our goal is to... Dead, we all wish there was no one here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But now we've got 14.7 dead per 1,000 inhabitants, so we said let the projection be 10. The fact is, we're not doing it. The fact is, if we compare the 4th month last year and these, as already stated, we have 31 more people dead and the fact is that something is wrong. If this is an attempt to suppress it, it's a bad way to stop it. First of all, it has already been heard here that the people are not conscious enough, and we are aware, so we will punish this people so that they will die as little as possible. Because they're like, I don't know how to say it any less smart than we do here. And we are wise men, so we play hallowed absolutes here, and We say unto them, This is for your sakes We punish you. And you see, I'd rather punish the savages, the maniacs, the murderers whose car is served for killing people, not killing people in the sphere of the offense, so that a wide range of people at some point in time, especially at the end of the month, when it takes money to punish themselves for minor or greater trumpeting, turning off lights, and that's why I'm about to change the criminal law and make murderers who kill their cars to kill people. To be punished with the strictest. Especially if they're alcoholized and so forth. It's already been heard here, and I think that without one whole understanding like that, we're not going to get off this fact, and this is going to be very undemocratic. The rich will go well again. It'll be easier to pay.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9954	Thank you. There was no reply to the replica? It's not. Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Marija Lugarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9955	Dear colleague Denona, you are absolutely right when you say that the Ministry of Education has had what it has so far because this provision has stood in all previous laws, in fact, not fulfilling its function and is not working enough on educational and educational programmes related to transport and transport culture. What counterpart Matušić said yesterday, as well as colleague Roksandić in the framework of a technical culture which is... reduced to less than an hour a week, and we can't bring down the transport culture to extracurricular activity for those students they want. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And if you want to go to high school, high school, high school schools, so those young people who are going to be drivers of absolutely one class tomorrow, one teaching minute of traffic and transport culture are gone. On the other hand, it's a little bit annoying when all the laws say, "The Ministry of Education will determine the programme in the school curricula that it will put the programme this or that one." Now, you've got to be really busy here. So we have: environmental protection programme, democratic citizenship, consumer rights and so on. All these programs that are educationally important in our schools absolutely don't come true or say they'll work under class class. So, really, the idea of whether or not a special teaching class, whether or not a special teaching module, but something needs to change so that this doesn't stay this way, because this is how it was for years and the results showed that it wasn't already clock itself and the content of the traffic culture is shrinking year after year.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9956	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9957	Of course, co-worker. I think it's out of this whole debate yesterday and today that the safety of road traffic is in, about the time we live in today and how many dead on the roads we have priority. This priority can also be understood that if this is a priority we must learn and teach about it. It is certain that one of these provisions, without obligation, is actually done without a deadline when it will begin to apply. And of course, when the law says that this law will cost the state nothing means that neither thought nor will be implemented in that way. What is done in technical culture is too little because as many children participate in working with, through technical culture it will certainly not be much clearer to them whether 0.5 is in force or 0.5 is not in force because as our prime minister would say it is or... So it turns out we have 0.5 or we don't have 0.5. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9958	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Borislav Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9959	Thank you, Mr. Vice President... Dear colleague Denon, I would agree with you when it comes to education. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would agree that it's far more necessary than what you might have wanted to apostrophe and that's light or I don't know what else. But this law is not just about lights. He also speaks of what needs to be interpreted as preventive-repressive. So I'm telling you again about what I personally think, which is that one and the other question is absolutely interlinked. Because this is where you talk about stricter speeding tickets. So there's a prevention of whether or not it's punishable from 300 to 15 thousand kuna. It exists in an alcoholic state from 1,000 to also 15000 kuna for, which is a ban. So there's prevention. Then only repression is the answer to prevention. There's also an escape from the scene of an accident up to 7,000. To disobey a police officer's orders, 1,000 kunas for driving without permission, through red, etc. So you can't just talk about repression. We're talking about prevention and the way that repression is just the part and the way that we're going to let someone who doesn't respect regulations actually know that he has to pay the fine. In that respect, I don't really want to, and we can't talk. You're just saying repression and that's where we disagree on the right, you on the left, even if we should all agree on this issue. So being unanimous is that all of what we do in this legal turn is primarily in the sense that we reduce the number of people who are unhappy, that we act educationally in schools, etc. I personally know that schools seem educational. I worked at school for 25 years. On class classes there are watches that are exclusively intended for traffic education. Every object can actually be done. So you can't say that the Ministry of Science isn't doing its job. However, where there may be another problem to think about. It's a problem school for drivers who are also questionable. Then we have the number, what's the number of unregistered, technically invalid cars, driver without permission, minors These are questions that need to be taken into account, which is prevention. [[Intruder: Bring the end!]] If someone doesn't hold on to this, then we have to punish him. Let's connect each other, let's not just talk about repression.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9960	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Luke Denon.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9961	Of course I can't agree with you. The repression itself is not a prevention. That's how I understand it, but not to get the wrong idea, I'm not for any repression to end. The question is and the question is why are traffic regulations respected in other more orderly, polite European countries. Why are they being respected there and not here? That's the question. So in that sense, I was saying that it takes a wider education to teach everyone how to obey the rules. Obviously, respect for regulations is not only in traffic, but some others are kind of easy to understand, so it can go one way or the other. I mentioned the light because the explanation of why we shut it down in summer is not in my court for the benefit of Croatian citizens, but it is in favour of how individuals or groups of people who will occasionally come to Croatia are being explained to me in order not to bother them. What about the Croatian citizens when they go to Slovenia? We don't care. That's where they'll pay their fines, then they'll come to their senses, and they'll say, "Here's what those smart guys in Parliament did." I think it's a thing that needs to be arranged differently too, or you can turn it off so we can have lights or let it go up all the time. That little we're going to pollute the environment for nothing as much as we're polluting on the other side.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9962	Thank you. And we have another announcement. The Committee on Health, Social Care will hold a meeting of the Committee on 28 May at 13:30, the “Eugen Quaternik” Hall. We are going further with the individual debate and the distinguished representative Ivan Hanžek.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9963	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow Secretary of State. You remember in my last debate, I also called for a kind of consensus on the adoption of the Road Safety Act, hoping that this consensus would primarily cause a reaction from the competent authorities that made this bill. In fact, I am still standing, and this debate today confirms this, with the strategy of economic development, it is the most important issue of the country's future development. For us, more young and more people die annually on the roads than we have averaged at the time of the war. I'm not talking about those tragic events of Vukovar, Skabrnje and the like, but about what killed the soldiers who today celebrate their day of the Armed Forces, and I'm taking the opportunity to congratulate them on Armed Forces Day. Unfortunately, there is little change or are almost negligible and unfortunately not to deviate from bad practice from the former system of lawmaking, but bad practice is still expanding and continuing. Namely, this law is what the Istrians would say. Why do I say a manifesto? Because he entered the Law on Local Self-Government, he entered the Law on Construction, the Law on Technical Conditions for Road Construction, and that I don't list all the other laws where the police give themselves a commitment and a job, and at the same time we say we don't have cops. And we don't! More and more police officers will be authorized to give local self-government the consent to open the terrace at an open restaurant. It is not written at which distance at the foot of the road from the road. There are no criteria, so it's stretching again, and at the same time we have to ask the county roads as local self-government because the roads in the city are major county or state. We're gonna need another organ. That means the police administration gets consent to such an object. Why do I say I'm disappointed? In an explanation of the debate from last session's response to my suggestion, my remark shows that those who responded to that remark either do not know or do not want to know. There is no dispute about the exclusion of an invalid vehicle from traffic. I'm talking about the type-approval of parts of the vehicle's retrofitted or alterations. Yeah, a vehicle when it's new to traffic needs to be approved. The trailer if you've made it at home has to be approved. However, if you bought a vehicle, dropped it by 4 cm, installed amortizers or popularly said feds that used to work and work today on cargo vehicles, so another rod is installed to increase load capacity. You don't have a typhoid norm that has to attach correctness and be entered into the technical book of the vehicle. It has an important impact on regularity. What they're going to say is, those who wrote the answer or don't know or don't want to know, because they obviously didn't understand the concept, maybe I wasn't clear enough, I'll allow that, too. When it comes to application, we're not all clear. However, when it comes to penalties, I do not know how craftsmen and legal persons will react to these measures that are in place. Some of the keys in the lock will have to be put in just because the vehicle was technically wrong when it was found in traffic, and when they went to work in the morning it was right and they would pay 15 thousand kuna. But the question is whether they will pay because, forgive me if I, I told the secretary of state on the board, drive from Zagreb to Split and meet only one vehicle that stopped the participants in traffic, which is the interceptor and does not meet any police officer in front of the Holy Rock who regulates traffic because you are busy, but a worker of the Croatian roads who is waving, so I don't know if he says hello or wants to tell me anything. If yesterday and today in the city of Zagreb I failed to see any traffic policeman who regulates traffic because this is more police, unfortunately not working with us. Because they're gone. I agree, let's step up, let's fill in. Prevention and police officers are on the road, prevention and punishment. I agree that some sentences are dragonish, but for some penalties I agree that they should be increased. I'm sorry, last time I said, if there's a second motor vehicle running through me in Ucka tunnel or St. Roque, the police department at 92 knows my cell phone number because I'm calling the police right now to let them know what's going on, but there's no one to stop them. That punishment is two thousand kunas. Two thousand kunas in the Ucko tunnel. It says tunnel, but the tunnel's 50 meters away, so it could be up to 5 grand and 700 feet away, fellow Shetić. Is it 5 and 750? My people, these are the works both colleagues and colleagues have been talking about, these are potential killers that should be eliminated from the road with dragon penalties, and I repeat, let's go in number, all citizens will get a number and go into one concesual follow-up of those who have frequented the perpetrators to multiply them on the nth potential. And what I'd like to say in my conclusion. I think this is a transitional law, and I call on my colleagues to accept this bill as only a transitional solution. To commit ourselves to each other and to the ministry, as well as other ministries discussed by colleagues and colleagues, the Ministry of Education and all others, to prepare a comprehensive and comprehensive Law on Road Safety, to remove from the law what is building, what are roads, to extract what is local self-government and then to give the possibility that the police really function in a way that is not questionable for them. 'Cause I've been repeating that argument again since last time. The average salary in Zagorje is more than 30% lower than the average salary in the Republic of Croatia. A cop who stops an average driver means not the one who's wild on the road, who knows he's getting paid by 2 grand or 2 grand 200 kuna, and that the offense he's committing is punishable with more than that amount. Well, I wouldn't want to be in the skin of that cop, and I know how they feel. I know how they feel. And the one and the other problem that's not directly related to the law, unfortunately, we have a police urination, and the cops are not responding to a violation of the laws and regulations, they're turning their heads. Why? Because the guy in the crime scene, he's in somebody else's room, and when you ask him to just warn the citizen not to break it, he doesn't have to be punished. If you don't break an equative regulation, you get an answer, it's not my job. I want this problem which solves this law to become a job for all of us and for all of us parliamentary representatives and civil society and other institutions that can help reduce the threat of our citizens, primarily our children in the future. Because all that we do, and raising standards and programs that we hope will bring up standards are in vain if so many young people and citizens, especially children, die and die on the roads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9964	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9965	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, it is not true that a colleague in his debate said that yesterday he traveled through the city of Zagreb to the Parliament and did not see any police officers in traffic. I don't think so. Dude, I travel every morning, and that's not true. From Savoski Street rotor to St. Mark's Square, police were at every crossroads, but there were also traffic police on motor vehicles. That's right. But you know what's true and what comes out of what you say is a big mess in the city of Zagreb? For 8 years, the government of the city of Zagreb has done nothing in the transport infrastructure of the city of Zagreb. These are problems and you can't solve traffic problems... /The speaker has been disabled./...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9966	Thank you. And now we've got replicas, some of them checked in before the debate started. So I'd like you to wait at least when the debate begins and sign in. Dear Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9967	So you rightly ask your colleagues whether these dragon penalties, fines will achieve such road safety. I'm sure he won't. And if we see in the bill that no money is necessary to implement this law, but it's obvious that you're asking the right question where the dragons' penalties for meaningless violations are provided, then the ultimate goal of this law is to impose itself. That it primarily serves to fill the state budget, and that it really does not care to contain, or that there is no serious effort to combat serious traffic offences which are a question of whether they are even more in the area of crime than the most dangerous criminal activity if they are rampant on the roads, if in such a state, in a drunken state, they cause serious consequences with the death of one or more persons. You see, what will be the consequences of these men of 15 thousand kunas where the punishment for some really lame offense will not be able to pay such a punishment, where will they go? A supercharged prison is a law enforcement man who doesn't pay a fine goes to jail. Where are you going to put him, please, in prison? And you don't need any means to enforce this law. Come on, please. And in the Penal Code, so it stays since '97. Because it's been abolished since 2003, where we've responded to traffic deals, so it's possible to kill a person, not one person, but more persons, unlimited numbers, and the maximum punishment is 5 years. It's a shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9968	Thank you. We have a replica. Dear Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9969	With it being a correction, one correction to an incorrect quote, but apparently you haven't seen it, but I welcome you anyway. Well, I'd like to correct an esteemed colleague. It's not about any road safety law. It's just that this law can simply be called the Harach Act. Also, this law is completely unconstitutional. Since a category of young driver appears here, and I believe that the Constitution states that all citizens are equal before the Constitution and the law in part of their responsibilities, obligations, but also their rights. The penalties themselves are inappropriate to the standard of living in Croatia, and I think they will only be able to be paid by union presidents, parliamentary representatives and members of the government and possibly by the Office of the President of the Republic, but one normal citizen, no matter what he did, agree with these parts for penalties, for serious traffic violations, but for these ordinary offences, I consider them to be too large. And the only thing that can affect the reduction of violations, traffic violations in the Republic of Croatia, and the consumption of alcohol are the prices of milk, bread, oil, as well as the prices of fuel driven by motor vehicles. Thank you. And the correction of the incorrect quote came back the same way. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9970	Your Honor, you have reported for breach of the Rules of Procedure and for correcting the incorrect allegations and for...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9971	Mr. Caine to you...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9972	You've reached out to everyone. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the honourable representative...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9973	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9974	Let me give you my word. Honorable representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9975	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I refer to Article 209 in conjunction with Article 214. Before, Mrs. Lugaric said she was upset. I didn't exactly remember what. But I'm asking myself, how long are we going to put up with this parliamentary terror of a club where you're SDP's representatives just throw that time. Go down to your club, make a deal. Go to Ibler Square and stop harassing this Parliament and the Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9976	Your Honor...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9977	What's done is an insult to common sense. For common sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9978	Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9979	And it ruins the integrity of this House, and in the end this is also the abuse of the Rules of Procedure and you are all aware of it. You have the right to do so, but you are aware that this is the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. Finally, the 0,0 promila provision was voted together by HDZ and the SDP. That's right. In 2004, you voted together.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9980	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9981	Without your votes, that provision would not have entered into force.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9982	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go. ... Your Honor... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9983	Let's take a look at the video. Don't lie, Jurovic. Shame on you for raising your hand by 0.0.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9984	Dear MPs, please, peace a little, peace. Calm down. Mr. Jurjevic, you didn't get your word, you can't throw it out of the bench and please, let's calm down... We're talking about the law... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please...... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9985	So did you vote or not? How you're lying. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9986	Please. We're talking about the law and the message, and we're saying that it's important in traffic to be calm, safe, so let's apply it to ourselves here in the parliamentary representative. Thank you very much. Dear Representative Zoran Vinkovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9987	Thank you. I also appeal to the entire Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9988	Please state, Your Honor, as stated in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9989	Point 202. Rules of Procedure. Does he have one? I don't think what Mr. Cain said has anything to do with the Rules of Procedure either. ... The SDP is a democratic party, so each MP has the right to the soybean opinion. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So, let me... What?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9990	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9991	... Can I have a Rules of Procedure? [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9992	Your Honor, at the beginning of the term of office, you have received the Rules of Procedure and try to find him where you share him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9993	I don't think it's Head...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9994	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Ivan Hanzek. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9995	Now that Mr. Cain has come in, I do regret that his club is not big enough for everyone to come in line to express their opinion and their views. And since this is a multidisciplinary matter of this law, then I think that no matter what I agree with my colleague Zivko Nenadić that it is something similar to football, but that everyone can make their own professional or life-experienced contribution. And this Harras Act, my colleague, I think you're wrong, because the hack was 10%. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9996	You can't give... Your Honor... Dear Representative Vinkovic, Honorable Representative Vinkovic, no matter what you do not have a Rules of Procedure, but the first provision is you must get the word. You didn't get it, pull the manual. We're talking traffic, so I'm telling you that term. We've got further replicas, the esteemed representative of Shima Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9997	Thank you very much. In fact, it seems to me that we're turning a very serious topic a little bit into a non-serious topic. It's obvious that in this House someone thinks this law is less important, and someone thinks it's more important. Someone thinks there's something to say, and someone might have nothing to say about that law. So please, Mr. Vice President, don't let this turn into some sort of general joy. So, about the position of counterpart Hanzek, about the position of police. Look, from 2004 to today, you have one tendency in this law that the police throw out a little bit of this law to all the subjects and take their jobs. For example, by 2004, you had a situation where the auto school inspection was carried out by the Ministry of Education. Unfortunately, there has been no more since 2004. Even now that power is spreading. I don't understand, don't you think the people of the ministry are more competent to supervise the car school than to say what they are to be police officers or police officers? It's a different story. I assure you that surveillance of highways would never be solved with interceptors, but as in most European countries video surveillance would be solved, or cameras, because interceptors are more expensive, money from a national programme that could be spent on education, education, propaganda, etc. So, you're absolutely right when you say that a good part of the cops doesn't do the job that's in their difolt, and I don't agree with you that there are too few cops. There's enough of them just misaligned.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9998	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Ivan Hanzek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u9999	In fact, we all have a common goal in this debate, the difference is the angle of view. When I was with my colleague, she corrected my incorrect quote, so I couldn't answer her. I can commend some police administrations where I was extremely surprised that the units of traffic youth in the tourist season and the police responded to poor weather conditions and to the mass of tourists around the center and around the cities, but would go far away to list the good and bad now, but I'm talking about the average. The hardest thing is when you don't see organ representatives in line in situations where he has to be. You have a similar problem with a public gathering where there are no cops but says hire an insurance service, but the cop doesn't. In the Netherlands, I was in the delegation of the City Associations, and here is my dear colleague Klaric, and we were literally taking a piss to use a jargon for cops in the city. It must be a uniformed representative on the road, it's an education with them, unlike we are missing. You have a dragon's sentence, so if you're caught dead, and most of the time you're not actually caught. Exactly what his colleague said, badly deployed. Analysts, assistant analysts, commissioners, assistant chiefs and such systematization are then missing that there are two police officers and I don't have a police officer in the city of Zaboku or in the community because I have to patrol where people are missing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10000	Thank you. We're moving on with individual debate, I believe with fewer replicas and corrections. Dear representative Marija Lugarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10001	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. I will not support this bill in this final bill. One part of these reasons for not supporting the law is hidden in discussions already highlighted by some colleagues from my club, as counterpart Sprem said yesterday on behalf of the SDP club, counterpart Lucin especially today and other colleagues. However, what I want to say a few words about is another reason why I will not support this law is simply the fact that this law is completely discriminatory to young drivers and even acknowledges it by the promoter. I think we need to be aware of that when at least those who intend to uphold this law. I don't know if you're aware, Mr. Secretary of State, but you've admitted discrimination in an explanation. You say the provisions on young drivers are not contrary to the Constitution since the Constitution does not know the prohibition of discrimination by age. So we can discriminate, because the Constitution doesn't say that it can't be discriminated by age. On the other hand, the Constitution states that all before the law are equal and that discrimination is prohibited by any, by different categories, but also by other characteristics. According to what actually happened to this law, we were already discussing it today. The definition of young drivers has changed and special restrictive conditions have been introduced, but I would not agree with you when you say for young drivers but for drivers of a certain age, for drivers 16 to 24 years of age. So we have different people in front of one law, we have drivers 16 to 24 years old, one law and one rule applies to them, and 24-year-old drivers drive by other rules. Is that in accordance with the Constitution that says that everyone before the law is equal or is discrimination. It is discrimination and such a law I don't think it can and should in this form receive support in the Croatian Parliament. So something has to change. Either the definition of a young driver or delete this Article 221 which speaks of those provisions. I think we understand each other well and we don't get it wrong. I personally believe that the problem of the victims of younger people on the roads is extremely large and that we should talk about it, that we should think and make the best solutions that would solve this problem, because this problem should not simply be ignored. However, I do not understand the logic that led the promoter in this law that says that everything will actually be resolved by repressive measures. It's not clear to me, the more repressive these measures were in the old law, and they didn't lead to the desired results. All the way back in the last two or three years we've watched these young people kill themselves or others, and most often others, and they survived on the roads, despite the legal provisions, they were driving cars that had more horsepower, driving at a time when they didn't have to, despite the 0.0 spills, not with 0.5, but with 1.2. One of them almost killed me five years ago. Therefore, repression and legal provisions alone will absolutely not solve anything. And I really don't understand why, on the other hand, you're removing the obligation to pass the safe driving program, or you're ending it because there's no polygon. So you don't have to cancel, you have to build polygons. I think that would be reasonable thinking about the law. There are, it has been proven in these European countries that the completion of the safe driving programme reduces and the number of accidents and increases transport culture. So we can't keep up with the logic there's an accident, young people do accidents, let's put them down at the same time we're removing safe driving programs because we didn't build polygons. I mean, it won't just solve anything. There are too many examples in the law, my colleagues have already talked about some, but I think that really the repression without education in transport and education in transport culture will not produce any results, and I am really sorry that I don't know how many people, any young people, should be killed on the roads until we understand it and until we really invest in education and education. But Mr. Secretary of State, if you want to and insist on discrimination against a driver of a certain age, then I ask you to give us gender statistics here, that is, gender. When we look and read these black chronicles about traffic loss, mostly perpetrators, younger perpetrators of these serious criminal offences where the victims are mostly younger men. I'm wondering if you really have that age-by-age statistic, so if you want to discriminate then discriminate on those statistics that say there's a reason. You've declared a whole generation of young people to be true, that one is an accurate quote: "unthinkable". There are 90% of drivers between the ages of 18 and 24 and have never committed a single offence in their lives. Not a single one. You call them all thoughtless and particularly discriminatory and you don't even keep it a secret, I don't think that's really good. There's been a lot of talk here about zero prominence. Now, as the debate goes on, I see that the clubs are a little bit aware that this isn't really about abolishing zero promiscuity. Now we've got an amendment here from HSLS and HSU that's talking about really introducing zero prominences. The HSS does not yet realise that this is not about abolishing 0 prominence, but about half-indication or what I know by what criteria of abolishing it, I only really hope that when we are going to pass laws in the future, when we are going to debate and vote amendments that there will be something more reasonable than writing the law itself that really accept those amendments that are fixing, which in this law on the one hand are unconstitutional and contrary to logic, contrary to the legal principles and what is in the best interest of Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10002	Thank you. We have three replicas. The first is the replica of Honorary Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10003	Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, you are right when you say that this is indeed an anti-constitutional provision relating to young drivers, especially when it refers to the driving age itself. But it would also be counter-constitutional to determine that in view of the experience, so driving experience. Apparently, he forgot about it here, and you're right when you listed this information about the number of people who didn't commit a violation from 18 to 24 or 16 to 24, respectively. But also the promoter had no idea that almost 30% of professional drivers were precisely from 18 to 24 years of age. So, from the truck with all those attached tram vehicles, etc. Also, under this law probably Luis Hamilton wouldn't be able to drink that champagne after this race in Monte Carlo and drive that honored circle since he's a relatively young driver, or in this category of young drivers, but he's capable of running Formula 1. I would also disagree with you that many of these crimes have been committed by this particular category from 18 to 24, especially by driving these expensive cars. One of the great reasons is certainly the state of the roads. I'm not talking about highways right now. I'm talking about state roads. So, enough to take the example of Slavonia, so here you go from Đakov to the White Manastir, that Mr. Secretary of State knows well, so you'll run into huge impact holes or head towards Nasice where it's almost impossible to drive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10004	Thank you. Otherwise, just for the sake of accuracy, Hamilton first drove an honorary circle, and then he had champagne. ... Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Marija Lugarić. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10005	Comrade Vinkovic, you have well warned about one thing that has not been discussed so far, and that is selective reading of traffic statistics. And I don't think it's good if we get laws from the government that, in part of the reasoning, have statistics that correspond to their conclusions and solutions, not complete statistics.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10006	Thank you. Replica is a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10007	Young people have always had and must have one special place either as perpetrators or as victims in both criminal and criminal law. But with the right of your colleague, Lugaric, you point out whether it is possible to act on young drivers in this way with fines that they will not pay but will pay their parents or not by their parents. And then the young will go to jail because they haven't paid the fine, so they'll get further infected and learn some other crimes because in our prisons, the primary delinquent traffic with the most serious criminals is known. Is that what you've been thinking about? You're not, because you're still boasting that this bill doesn't require any cash. For the sake of prevention, it was necessary to respond to these young people in this way because it costs something because all good things cost, so it is doubtful what the application of this law will be. Not at all. And what's most important, and that's the fatal outcome, and that's the hard consequences of a serious car accident, you're not going to stop it in this way. It is impossible and it is not normal to change this law without changing the Penal Code where it is possible to kill ten, twenty people with a maximum sentence of 5 years and with intent done. Well, that's not normal. And here with dragon sentences, with fines like this you react. And the question is not just constitutionality, but the question is basic postulates and I will repeat them. So it's not possible that this is how this law was concluded, where you're talking and driving with 0.5 is allowed, but if there's a violation that's not in a causative relationship with any alcohol than any other thing, then it's going to be punished for it. So what is this state of consciousness of the promoter? It's not possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10008	Thank you. And we have another replica, the distinguished representative Željka Antunović, vice president of the home. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10009	Thank you very much. A colleague, Marija Lugaric, spoke of some kind of deliberate discrimination of the young population, conscious and deliberate discrimination. Comrade Lugaric, I disagree with you. It seems to me that everything that's been said is critical of this law with the intention of changing some of the provisions of this law and fixing it to give a result and to truly meet the purpose and purpose for which the law is being passed, that the result of one superficial approach, is one wandering and recklessness not of young drivers but of those who have worked to prepare this law. I do not intend to be a group towards the promoters but to be truly well-intentioned because it seems to me that the law is full of good intentions that should increase the safety of both young drivers and all road users but that in some confusion it seems to me that I am partly considering the suggestions of experts, in part being politicised and even implementing some kind of political methods in this law. Indeed, the definition of a young driver cannot be between 16 and 24 because it can then be seen roughly as the colleague said it was a right discrimination without the right criteria. That won't lead to results. And finally, I'd also like to say something about 0.5. People, let's stop this 0.0 break to the end, let's not fool ourselves or the public. It's no use to anyone. Because if this is going to be a particular crime, if there is any more, or any particular act, if any other offence occurs, then it really is not any change to the existing zero-probation provision.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10010	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Marija Lugarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10011	Dear colleagues, intricacies, indiscretion, thoughtlessness, speed cannot be an excuse for the Croatian Parliament to vote in discriminatory terms.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10012	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, State Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior, esteemed Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10013	... They say the same thing should be said about the law, I have listened carefully, but the truth is, I have to answer several of these recent remarks concerning competence or incompetence and the promoters and the MUP and how responsible the MUP and the leadership of this situation in road safety or not is responsible. [[Specially enabled.]] I'll just say right away that it's clear to me that the M.P. doesn't even have a monopoly on road safety, but we have far the greatest responsibility and of this responsibility and we're not trying to escape. However, Mr Lucin said that there is a problem with the organisation of the work of the MUP, that there are enough police officers, mainly that the MUP is also proposing such a law and, by its work, one of the main causes of such a traffic situation. I will now say just what we found, how it was in 2003 before the law was passed, that is, the law that is still in force. And what was the situation at the time of the Ministry of Interior organized by Mr. Lucin? In fact, Mr. Lucin said a little while ago that he had enough cops. At the time of the former government's term of office, 2200 police officers were fired, with reasons that we have too many officers, that it is beyond the norm of the European Union's standard, which proved later that it is not, because it was absolutely considered that we have a large number of police officers who are going to retire and still there are not too many police officers in the MUP, and we are only now renewing the number of police officers who are simply devastated by firing in 2001, 2002 and 2003. And I'm just going to tell you the state of affairs that was found and this law that was still in force gave results no matter how hard someone tried to challenge it. For the first, or 2003, it was the first time since '97. More than 700 people died in traffic. In 2003, the first time since '97. A year. Let me just tell you something. Let me tell you the same thing, just let me tell you the next one. For the first, if compared, if compared for the first 6 months, the number of fatalities in 2003 was compared when it was an organisation of the MUP that you led in 2004. And when he was in force, the law we changed in 2004. So in 2003, we had the first time in eight years more than 700 deaths. And for the first 6 months of 2004, when we failed to intervene the organisation of the MUP, when we failed to receive police officers from the same, and when it was in force the law that we changed, it was for the first 6 months of 2004 dead 43 more than in 2003. If that trend had continued, had we not passed a new law, had we not received new police officers, had we not done organizational changes, be sure that the death toll in 2004 would have been over 800 deaths, because in the second half of 2004 we had a reduction of 136 fatalities. In part, the reason for this is also the adoption of new laws and changes in the organisation of police and all that this leadership of the MUP has made them extremely negative trends stop. We are not satisfied with this condition, and we have no illusion that this law itself will solve everything. It takes a number of other measures, all social institutions that participate in transport itself in one way or another, and ultimately we ourselves. But with these figures, I just want to show you that you're wrong when you claim that the law has not achieved a single positive result, that the law is bad and that it has only caused an even worse situation. This law isn't perfect, that's why we're changing it but it saved several hundred lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10014	Thank you. We have three corrections of an incorrect quote. He is the first respected representative of Shima Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10015	Thank you very much. In fact, none of what Mr. Secretary of State said, I didn't say. He must have felt called. You see, if there are any shortages of police officers, as I recall, Mr. Buconjic, the Prime Minister and you promised to return them all in the 2003 campaign. Therefore, if you have fulfilled your promise, there is no more shortage of police officers. Only if you didn't cheat on those people, I don't know. It is incorrect that for the first time in 2003 there were over 700 deaths. Look at the statistics a little further. Remember 2000, 2001, 2000, so, like this. For the term of office of the former coalition government, a three-year downward route, one year up. You, Mr. Buconjic, are two years down and two years up. But I've asked you not to bother over whose term fewer people have died. Therefore, it is not correct how you performed. I didn't say cops were guilty of this law. and for this situation. ..../ [[Thank you. You're out of time.]] The speaker went off.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10016	Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. The esteemed, correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10017	It is incorrect that Mr. Buconjic claimed that in 2000 the system was devastated. That's incorrect and incorrect! Not to use any harder words. And it's sad that here, instead of finding solutions, you find some excuses and it's a fake.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10018	Thank you. And the correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10019	I also think it's the interest of all of us who sit here and all those who take part in the traffic to keep everyone alive, to have everyone happy back home.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10020	What's incorrect? Please correct the incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10021	So the correction of the incorrect quote is related to.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10022	It's not a correction! You have to say what you're correcting!
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10023	In connection with the claim that in someone's term, it was more fatal, in someone's own less. I don't think it does, that it's completely and politically incorrect and that it doesn't, it doesn't make sense and don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10024	You can't do this on your own. Your Honor, you need to correct the incorrect, say what you're correcting, what a quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10025	So here I am correcting this claim that in 2003 more people were killed on the roads. And I think it's the goal of all of us not to throw ourselves around with these numbers, these lives. [[Intruder: It's about people's lives.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10026	But you're not correcting an incorrect quote. Thank you. [[Mr. Vice President.]] Thank you. You're not correcting an incorrect assumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10027	Otherwise in all European countries... /The speaker has been disabled./...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10028	Please, Your Honor, Mr. Vinkovic. I know, you said you didn't have a Rules of Procedure, so they'll give it to you. Well, he will, and then you'll be good-bye to him. [[I have a Rules of Procedure.]] We need to stick it all together, and when you fix what you're correcting, it's gonna be fixed. ... If that's what you have to say, which article I hurt, and let's not discuss it like this. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. Let's move on with the individual debate. Honorable representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10029	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. If there is a law in Croatia that might need to be passed by consensus, then I think it should be this road safety law. That's why I don't think it's smart, it's not good for individuals to try to collect cheap political points. To try to call the law unprofessional, superficial because it's pure politics that tries to score some cheap points. Such rhetoric will not help solve this problem. I think that in this exhaustive debate that is already taking place and in this second reading for quite a long time, it should certainly seriously consider some suggestions from fellow MPs, and I think that the promoter should really think about it. I would therefore suggest that 0.5% of the alkonchol spill, and that was the case here should not in any way be tied to the technical side of the vehicle but should be tied to the nature of the offence. I wouldn't want to repeat those who talked about it because it's really not someone's fault if it's overheated by the lights or maybe it's not a blinker, and that's why it's practically affecting both 0.5 and 0.5. We basically aim to prevent and act on the conscience of the driver. And surely we will act on the conscience and conscience of the driver, more so if he knows that if he commits a misdemeanor during the ride, then he gets these 0.5 promiscations and not because perhaps during the ride there is a technical malfunction of the vehicle itself. Another thing I think is that the law should cover the experience of drivers or under-experienced drivers. The law includes young drivers, but I think the big problem is safe with us and there are often incident situations in traffic precisely because of driving inexperience. It has even more serious consequences for the incident situations. That's why I suggested when I first read that maybe I should introduce some term driver's intern, so I think maybe on the vehicle along with a sticker visible that up to about two years, that's my proposal, driving, active driving experience in traffic, that vehicle should be clearly marked. Because unfortunately, the fact is that all of us who are in traffic know that this unfortunately driving inexperience is very much contributing to various violations. In the end, we were all inexperienced when we passed the exam and got into traffic. Then I also believe that the committees in question should include traffic, traffic police and I think that they should be people who would be presidents of these commissions who would, in any case, act on greater responsibility and more filtering knowledge when passing a driving test. I sometimes stay alone and wonder who gave you the driver's license when I meet individuals, individuals in traffic. I think the traffic police should be actively involved in passing at least that final exam when, as it used to be, while I was taking my driving exam 30 and a few years ago. As far as punishment is concerned, I would suggest that the fines above 1000 kuna are sanctioned in a degree. I think that would make us try to act more qualitatively on those who are more prone to frequent violations and who, unfortunately, often come into a situation to be punished. That they know exactly that if they continue to commit violations, they will pay more and more. In the end, watch the car today is not a luxury, and that is why we have been discussing this law for so long, in fact, only this means of transport and the kind of offence that happens with this means of transport. A car needs to be done today. It's one of the civilization needs of people, and I think we should be counting on that social moment. And this is that according to our social reality if it is a necessary need, it is certain that many will not be able to afford that luxury to pay such high fines but will have to leave because of possible banal prison violations. And that's why we don't let them drive only roads rich and boast today, but rather be the right ones, but then in one way, I'd say fairer ways, the way they sanction. As far as I'm concerned, there have been suggestions here that I should not know about schools as a subjective, subject teaching to introduce, introduce security in traffic or do not know what. Well, I'm sure the kids should be educated. This should be educated not from school days, but from the moment she goes to those kindergartens or I don't know, I don't know where she goes about traffic culture. But imagine if we're going to introduce everything as teaching subjects. So we could get every other law here to introduce somewhere like a children's teaching program. Well, then these kids won't even be able to go home from school. Then we'll also have to introduce an object to become a parliamentary representative since the first grade of primary school. So I think that there should be a clear concept of children's education but certainly not yet to be burdened with this extra teaching program but to do one quality education anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10030	Thank you. And now we have one series of replicas. The first is Honourable representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10031	I thank my esteemed colleague Kunst. He is right when he said that our roads will probably only be driven by rich people and boasted about the standard of living in Croatia, given the price of fuel and so on. And I would not agree with this part that the car today is a dry need than it is becoming more and more luxury regardless of the installation of gas and probably the legislator after that installation will separate the gas for household and gas for the household. Similar to electricity, they won't collect. However, regarding this car marking, young drivers are also an unconstitutional provision, and in history there have been a number of examples when someone was marked, including in the time of World War II. I hope there wasn't a single kind of mark-up here at all. But what's most important anyway. This is not only these 0.5 promilas, 0.7 promilas or 0.8 as it is in the UK, but I will only mention here that exactly the training of drivers is the least taken care of, that the concept of auto school often listed in the text of this law is not listed anywhere or defined. Similar to professional authorised organisations, it is likely that according to this professionally authorised organisation, it is again thought of by HAK monopoly, which is in fact only one association of citizens. Well, here's to the legislator who's obviously deep into the text of the law that the concept of auto school doesn't explain itself at all, because auto school doesn't know what's under this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10032	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10033	I'm sorry that my colleague Vinkovic doesn't listen to the debate, and then he comes out with such a replica of “tired grandmother flax, to pass her day” so, look, I didn't say at any point that he would just drive rich and boast. I think it's a cynical remark now. I said we should create conditions that everyone can take part in the traffic today and today, because the car really isn't a luxury. As far as markings are concerned, I never said that young drivers should be marked. I was talking about under-experienced drivers, and you know that auto-schools are also marked, that they have that L plate, so it doesn't matter, and I wouldn't say that I don't know what my colleague Vinkovic meant when he said that he was against such labelling, but unfortunately, the facts have shown us that just under-experienced drivers and that logically they are sometimes the most involved in the traffic of various incident situations that normally don't have to end up with the most difficult consequences, but there are also those. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10034	Thank you. Replica's distinguished representative Zeljka Antunović, vice president of the House. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10035	Thank you very much. A fellow Kunst presented one of my praises to a valuable initiative or a possible solution to the problem of 0.5 has failed to allow the possession of 0.5 permeations in the blood, if punished as a separate offence should be tied to the nature of the offence. That's certainly better than what the law says. But I still think, and that's why I replicate that it's not enough. We have to decide whether 0.5 of the alcohol spills into the blood is an alcoholic driver or not an alcoholic driver. If it's a condition that makes it impossible for a driver to drive a motor vehicle in the way he does, in a way that does not endanger his or her own safety or anyone else's safety, then let's stay at zero prominence. However, experts say that 0.5 of the doubt is that it is not an alcoholic state, that it is simply a state in which vehicle safety management is enabled and therefore cannot remain a separate criminal offence, or a separate offence. I mean, let's not make half-assed solutions. If we agreed that this did not contribute to improving safety, if we see that it was forced to put an end to it and 0.5 of the blood permeation is simply not alcohol, alcoholised condition and cannot be particularly criminally punished.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10036	Thank you. Replicate response, distinguished representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10037	Well, here I am thanking my colleague Antunovic for agreeing with me. But surely those 0.5 prominences I tied not to the technical side of the vehicle but with the nature of the misdemeanor had by me a very psychological significance to act on the man who would drink that one, two beers, I don't know how long it takes, depending on how hard it is to get to those 0.5 to know, that if he commits some traffic violation means driving to blame something that will be further punished. I think it would have had quite a psychological character, whether or not those 0.5 limit his abilities. But I think it would certainly have a certain weight to think about and be much more careful when driving than the one who won't drink anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10038	Thank you. Let's move on with the replicas. Dear Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10039	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I think my colleague Kunst presented a very interesting initiative that I agree with, perhaps not the way he suggested it. But I think you should think about it anyway, and it's really about drivers with experience. I also find this formulation more acceptable than young drivers as defined now, because I really believe from experience that those who are without experience are actually the ones who most often and cause the traffic accidents and initiatives he was talking about marking me is not as acceptable as the idea that in some way I might consider a temporary driver’s license and after a certain period of additional driving test that would be more complex in terms of demand than that first driving test. Why? Because the actual passing of the driving exams is about the most basic management of the vehicle. With this most basic driving management, it is really difficult to respond to many of the challenges facing drivers from speed to behaviour in certain conditions such as snow, such as rain, etc. And that's why I think maybe you should think about one category or after a year of driving or after two years of driving to introduce an additional exam that would then allow one permanent driver's license. And I'm often on the road and I really see everything and everything every day, from being given a left blinker, so going right and opposite, to various situations where actually slow drivers who may have just passed and have no experience driving 30 an hour where 70 or 80 or 130 are allowed as well as 110 if there's a fast road, etc., where slow drivers actually create huge columns And they actually create preconditions for car accidents. [[- Intruder: Finish!]] In this respect, it is indeed necessary to consider this initiative of a temporary driver's licence.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10040	Thank you. Replicate response, distinguished representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10041	A colleague Matušić, so look, our goal is to get out of these schools as well as possible, as well as to include quality educated drivers who are going to be involved in traffic and I suggest, and I said that it would not be bad, it might be an additional effort for the traffic police, but that it is really active to include a representative of the traffic police at least at the time when a driving exam is passed, because I think it would certainly be good to operate and filter that knowledge in one more quality way than I think it is today when traffic police are not present in passing these driving exams. I have to say my experience, I passed the driver's test 32 years ago and that time was a representative of the militia in the examination committee, the whole commission was like that, and it had its own weight because people were experienced every day in traffic, who know very well the rules, they know all about it. I don't see any reason why the traffic police wouldn't be able to include the bar in the part where it's preferable to filter out the passing of that driver's test more high-quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10042	Thank you. Replica. Honorable representative Goran Beus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10043	Richembergh, Mr. Vice President. Goran Beus Richembergh because there are 5 Goran Beus, only one Richembergh. Please don't let this get in my minute. Comrade Kunst, you put out one thesis, which is that the traffic police should play a more active role in this entire system. I agree with you, but since you are elected to the same constituency that I am in, I would like to warn you that there is one situation in this constituency that testifies that the legislator has no serious intention of doing such a thing. Namely, do you know that Zagreb County is the only county that doesn't have its own police administration? Do you know that Zagreb County is the only county that has no single traffic police station on its territory, say Sisak-Moslavina has two? Do you know that the town of Velika Gorica and its surrounding municipalities with 550 square kilometers and about 80 thousand inhabitants, including some 36,000 drivers, are you aware that there are not a single traffic policeman in the area, but there are two police officers in the station in Velika Gorica who have one form of examination that should be seen in traffic accidents? So, how can we talk about the active involvement of the legislators of this law through the engagement of real and necessary forces, including the traffic police, when this issue is clearly showing you that for years this ministry has not been ready to do so in a quality way. And I use this opportunity to ask the promoter to finally remember Zagreb County and the town of Velika Gorica because it is through the busiest state road in the Republic of Croatia D-30, in its area there is an international airport and there are two extremely important ones, which will, in all likelihood, be very frequent roads such as the Zagreb-Velika Gorica-Sisak and so on. A bypass to the Homeland Bridge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10044	Thank you. Replicate response, distinguished representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10045	Thank you very much to the Mayor of Velika Gorica for warning in some way about all these shortcomings, but you know as well, most likely and police organisation, it belongs to another law and other solution, so I certainly don't know about these issues as a quiz, but it would certainly be good for you as a mayor and for the mayor to start this issue and to get rid of it seriously because in principle, I am for sure that the police must be present everywhere and I believe that the police are present in Zagreb County, I say I don't know, and I'm not familiar with that organisational police scheme, so I can't talk about it, but it's precisely on you that responsibility and obligations as mayor and mayor to be more persistent to resolve this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10046	Thank you. Replica. Honorable representative of Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10047	Comrade Kunst, you've started off badly, and you've done very well. You said that we should have a consensus about this law and that individuals or groups of MPs get cheap political points. I would not agree with you on these cheap political points since this is a finding of 0.5 yes or no, i.e. A cheap political point. You promised the citizens that you'd let 0.5 of us have it in our blood, and it won't actually be. But I agree with you that school education is also needed, a little more seriously, since a parliamentary representative does not need a large education, as we see and does not involve that life, but educating someone to know how to behave on the road is very important and I think that education should be spent seriously in schools because it requires a general culture. I also agree with you that we move these young people away and put them inexperienced because the older ones are inexperienced, so it would be good to mark them somehow and not be too nervous about us who are more likely to drive towards them. And the consensus, of course, that we can reach a consensus, should only suppress that obstinateness of the promoter. Please, nice. In winter, summer light, yes, light no. This is the road safety law. We're told by the legislators that if we turn the light on in winter, we'll be safer, but if we shut it down in summer, we'll be safer as well. It doesn't make sense, it just doesn't make sense. Either we light it, or we don't shut it down. How many times you've come across in our beautiful Croatia in the summer, you're driving in the Adriatic Forests, so it's kind of too bright and you're encountering a gray car that you've noticed lately and there's lights out. And if it's lit, you'll see it in summer. If it's traffic safety, then let it be summer. Here, then we can talk about consensus.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10048	Thank you. Replicate response, distinguished representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10049	My colleague Denon certainly better end well than start good, end bad. But this I don't know if you understood me when I was talking about this education, so basically we're thinking the same thing, no one is against, no one can normally be against education of children related to traffic safety and logically it's, I was just saying that in that part we should see in what way it quality organizes, but don't go in a way to put it into the teaching program now, to be an object etc. For reasons I say we could react to any other law in this way, not to repeat what I've already said. I agree with you that MPs do not need great qualifications and lively were so seen, but I think that in any case you should have a higher education on road safety and I think we fully agree. And I believe, here's what I really believe, like all of you, that the promoter will take into account all of these proposals and discussions, and that he'll try and do a little more and contribute to that quality more, and the goal is for all of us to prevent accidents, to have as few accidents as possible, to have as few people as possible who are going to suffer in traffic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10050	Thank you. And the last replica, the esteemed representative of Ante Mance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10051	Dear Vice President, here I am, and I'm glad to hear from you for the first time today since all the debates, that my dear colleague Kunst has mentioned auto school. Since I've talked a little bit about it last time, because these discussions that have been so far, says there's no education through elementary school, there's through those items if you're looking just to take the program itself, so if you mention how many hours, there's that. But we know who we worked through practice and through other subjects those who start doing it even in primary school, I don't know here often Miss Lugaric appears, I don't know what professions it is, I see that mostly education is spoken of. There are a few of us who have spent a lot of time in schools, so we know that through a number of subjects, such education is being conducted. And I'm particularly glad that my colleague Kunst mentioned auto school because I think it's very important that education is carried out through auto schools, and it's also very important who is the one who conducts those educations and I see that in this law, and I made one proposal last time, one remark. So there are two ways of education in being through a driver or through schools that are high school or through auto school and I see that there is one shift, that for a degree more is mentioned by people who will do that education if they are engineers. What I would like to personally do, because I also see that in this new law on education is mentioned along with the rest of these licences, to mention and firstly to those who are engineers, and they have not finished teaching colleges to mention that they should and must certainly go and pass on to that pedagogical class of subjects. I think it's good here and it's very well pointed out and perhaps in this everything we've heard today about this education is very good, and it's very important and it's very good that when you implement the program there is the same Mr. Kunst quite right, one teaches you and the other questions you. It's still a sign of one quality I have to tell you, I'm telling you from experience and that's certainly good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10052	Thank you. And Ivanka Roxandić as last. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10053	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'll do the same for education. I have to tell my colleague Kunst that you encouraged me to the replica at the time you said, so we're not going to introduce another class to the students at school. So when we talk about school education very often in discharging programs, then all of us as parents and as educators and as teachers try and advocate the dispensation of students. But when we talk about other problems like this, then let's introduce another subject into schools, and then solve everything both by colleague Mance and colleague Kunst, and I also talked yesterday about the fact that traffic is really being carried out in some cases in technical culture, in extracurricular, extracurricular activities. You need to educate children from the lowest level of kindergarten and have fun. Instructions are given in the first grade of primary school. So through a complete elementary school, this must be happening safely in traffic right now. I guess we're not really going to get a colleague when we come across a problem and try to solve these problems in schools, make it all happen by adding kids to another class. This means an even greater commitment for children, and then children will no longer go to school for six hours a day but even 7 and 8 hours, and we all advocate in this House of Higher Education and as parents and as teachers just for dispensing students. Let's not solve everything in schools with some extra class.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10054	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to start my debate from the national transport security programme and wish that we'd really come down with a number of 10 people killed in the amount of 100,000 people, and that's about our goal in two years. If we observe that we are at this point at 14 deaths, then it is estimated that in the next two years we will find that goal very difficult to achieve. So let's try realistically now to figure out if we can get close to those numbers through this and next year. And if the assessment is that it's going to be very difficult, really very difficult, then we're wondering if the changes to this law now will contribute. I'm convinced in one part of that. So we're going to have these positive shifts, but it's evident that we're not going to achieve the goal of the national programme. They're free judgments now. I say someone can have optimistic assessments, but let's be realistic, maybe even pessimistic, and maybe we'll do something more. Then let us turn to an experienced Europe, a Europe that has already achieved those goals, and then we will come to the fact that they are legislators, which is our position, in fact, came to a different legal solution. What does it mean by different? They have introduced many more competent ministries to address legislation in that domain, many more specialists who must be involved in the bill. And I have to say this first and second reading for me is a certain success. We have opened the most topic about the approach to lawmaking and we believe and I believe that next time we will not get any more of this concept of law and that may be the greatest value of this debate over the law, because we have said to try to push the Ministry of Transport to organise specialists and experts who will make the laws in part of traffic security. Let's try to turn the Ministry of Education towards auto-schools, schools, educations and they'll be the ones who are competent professionally to tell if they'll be teaching now, whether they will be, whether they'll be extracurricular or not, of course, what and of course the Ministry of Economy in that part that he cares about what the manufacturer's obligation, the safety of the vehicle means, and I would say the safety of the equipment and of course we don't talk any further about the quality of the road. So I would say through these two readings we have turned to the debate to copy countries in Europe that have achieved the goal of 10 people killed in road traffic and at the same time changed this legislative legislation and I think that's good. I wish we could have actually passed it on to certain ministers, that they too would understand that they have to think slowly about changing the concept of the law. Why as legislators and perhaps the last one, I would say the obstacle is overcome, and that is to change the concept of the law to clear out whether we really did everything in the law to reduce the mortality on our roads and to achieve the goals of the national programme. So, we change our obligation as a legislator, and we use those experiences from Europe that have changed it, not wanting to reduce it at all, I would say neither the contribution nor the merits of the Ministry of the Interior, nor their roles in the good part of supervision in certain things. Therefore, I would say that this may be the biggest contribution in this debate over this law that we are slowly beginning to think about changing the design of the concept. Then we'll have more laws, everyone will be specialists in that area, etc. Let's be honest, I went out as chairman of the board for a pay phone. Look at our Rules of Procedure. I'm not the committee responsible for this law even though I'm president of the Transport Committee. Why? Because it seems according to our Rules of Procedure, the chairman of the National Security Committee. So now we see what the problems are, essentially, because of the breadth of this law and the significance of this law's problem. So, in my opinion, this principle debate from the first reading of this debate today would really have to be sent to the Minister of Transport, Maritime Affairs, Minister of Education, Minister of Economy, to realize that maybe we should think about breaking the law and then we have more specialists and perhaps better-quality solutions. The problem of the number of people in the Ministry of the Interior who are related to traffic problems is often mentioned here, and one of the provisions is the one that speaks about the possibility of the municipal police being involved in part of these problems. And I think that the Ministry of the Interior really should work out more in detail the possibility of including the municipal police, at least in that part of the traffic in peace, because the simple resource of local self-government is so great and significant and that their contribution to the battle for greater security in transport should also be present, and that is possible if we make a little more detailed legislation in that domain and propose, so I hope that next time we have that part. Now, specifically, when we talk about this law itself, I don't think there really should be any doubt about whether we have involved politics or some compromises in individual legal solutions. If alcohol up to 0.5 spills in blood is not an alcoholic state, does not interfere with the driver, there should be no compromise at this time, as this law proposes. He should have 0.0 removed and 0.5 would have been allowed. In fact, we have restrictions on professional drivers and we can agree that it's for these drivers, whether younger or essentially those beginner drivers, so these are restrictions. Why? Because we're estimating a professional doesn't have the right to do that, and possibly a beginner driver shouldn't have to do that. And these are restrictions, but to tie them to other traffic offences regardless of which I don't think necessary, because the waist says 0.5 promila is not an alcoholic state, does not affect the driver's ability. And I don't think we really need any compromise, whether it's political or I don't know whether it's professional or trying to justify the previous law, we don't need it, let's be clear and unequivocal that we don't put up with criticism for these half-assed solutions. Also when we talk about penalties, if you've been in contact with certain civil society associations, you'll see particularly civil society associations that have been killed in traffic, and they're very insistent on increasing the fines and I think that the prisons that have now been imposed for certain offences are really the answers that had to be present in this law and I agree with that, but when we talk about fines, I don't think we've reached our goal here. For an average salary of slightly less than 5 thousand, these are excessive penalties, and at the same time people who have average incomes, regardless of whether by work or capital of several tens of thousands, these are not eligible penalties and it is evident that if we really wanted to achieve a fine that we had to tie it to the receipts. And at that point, they would also achieve equality of the citizens of Croatia, but also adequate punishment, because simply one who has monthly income on any basis of 70, 80,000 if you punished him with 60% of the income, that punishment would be appropriate for him. This way on his 70,000 monthly incomes, 5 grand is not a proper punishment. And apparently, with the fines, since we haven't tied them to the censorship of income, we haven't achieved what we want. And I think we could still fix that, and that moment would be, I'd say, moderate to those with low incomes, and yet significant to the level of punishment, and what's most important to those with high incomes would be properly punished and then we could fix this part of the fines related to the fines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10055	Thank you. We have one replica, Mr. Representative Joseph Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10056	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Fellow Slavko, indeed, was well-intentioned and constructive, but such a debate does not solve the burning problem of the proposal of this law, which is Article 199 so-called. Legal waiting room for our citizens, amateur drivers. So, the law predicts the presummation of yuris, the legal presumption that the driver is not drunk, is not drunk and gives him freedom to drink and drive. However, when he commits any offense, we declare him drunk. It's a legal concierge for our citizens. We can't participate in such lawmaking. So, the citizen must be clearly defined in advance if he drank one glass of wine that it's a law-free and legal presumption that he entered the market without alcohol, and not if you commit an offence, we will now punish you for being free to drink a glass of wine. Such a problem will not be resolved unfortunately by constructive discussions unless the government's proposing changes such a bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10057	Thank you. Answer Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10058	So I think that even during today's debate, regardless of what side the motion and the secretary of state came from, on behalf of the promoter, that the simple compromise in that part will not really be good and that we estimate that if the expert's assessment that up to 0.5 promiscation is not an alcoholic state, it does not affect the driver and that we already have exceptions such as a professional driver or a beginner or a younger driver or a younger man, however he finds a solution to the law, and that these are basically exceptions that do not allow neither the 0.5, that the other compromises in the law are not good. I have almost not heard from any parliamentary representative who has not pointed out a problem such a legal solution given and that we can still expect until the vote an amendment of the promoter, that we have several amendments to parliamentary MPs I believe that as legislators we will not make a mistake and that we will change that part per day or two, that the legal text will be clean in that part so that I am still optimistic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10059	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Bruno Kurelic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10060	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. With how much seriousness and respect for procedures this law has been passed, it is visible from the following data. On 8 May, the Government of the Republic of Croatia established the Final Proposal of the Transport Safety Act and sent it to the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia for discussion and adoption, and on 9 May the same vote set out the proposal for this law in the first reading and together with the proposals and amendments resulting from that reading sent to the Government to amend it and to establish it. Interesting. I don't know what this Parliament is for then. This law, gentlemen, concerns almost all of our citizens because almost all of them are in some way involved in transport. The consequences of road traffic accidents are a major public health problem for every society, and that is why I am reporting for this discussion. Yesterday, in the first reading of the bill, many bids were made on the number of deaths. I'll just say one statistical fact. After four months this year, we have 186 deaths, which is 6.5% more than in the first four months of last year. What's the point of this problem? The accidents that occur on the roads as a result of health disorders, disability and death are constantly rising. What is tragically dominant is the death of young people. The opinion of the World Health Organization’s experts, which point out that traffic accidents are not given adequate attention and the following reasons for this claim are given. First, all over the world of traffic accidents are experiencing almost fatalism. Despite the fact that most of the events and circumstances are within the limits of our control, they can either be prevented or not accidents in a literal sense. Second, people are often unaware of the severity of all the consequences of road accidents, and since more can be prevented and the severity of the consequences can be lower. And thirdly, the final cost of investment in increased security is less than the damage that accidents cause. The fact is that young people suffer most often, then spend a number of weeks in hospitals due to the consequences of suffering and then are no longer able to live, work, rejoice, some remain permanent disabled often on the burden of their loved ones. How many lost productive years of life? What are these, however harshly speaking, financial losses for the community? When the first person in London died in 1896 as a traffic participant, the coroner said with indignation: "It should never happen again.". Since then, however, road traffic has become an inevitable part of everyday life. And now just a few words about the very proposal of the law from my corner, from my observations. Here are a few of my remarks. Article 1(2) defines the concept of transport, so I will quote: "The traffic on the road under this law implies the transport of vehicles, pedestrians and other road users used for public transport.". All right, colleagues and colleagues, if the law were called Road Traffic Act. But this law, as far as I can see, is called the Road Safety Act. My question is what is road safety then. This definition is missing or there may be too many in the law itself. If you do not think that trying to define road safety, even of the most relevant, you will find two of the same and I can almost say similar definitions. This observation may justify paragraph 3 of Article 6 which reads: "public roads may only be placed on the market after it has been established that from the point of view of traffic safety they are safe enough.". A much clearer answer from the driving instructor to the question why the chicken crossed the street. You know what the instructor said? To become a traffic participant. In point 40 of paragraph 1, persons with disabilities who may use an accessibility sign shall be defined. But my colleagues, I think it's a little illogical that under a disabled person, we only take into account those who have damaged lower extremities. Today, yesterday, in the first reading, many of those famous 0.0 were said. In public, this law was identified in fact by the abolition of 0.5 prominence and it was a done deal. And then yesterday, it's days and days in discussions and replicas and false allegations, and it's partly like that, and in part it's not like that. I really find this hard to understand, I guess it's Croatian... The law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I personally support the provision to turn on with open lights, day or night. I think it's good to respect a very valuable safety rule when driving, see and be seen. In addition, it is recommended by the International Transport Prevention Organisation for all EU countries to drive with lights for security reasons. And like a little where that folk here better prevents than treats has a real justification. For this reason, esteemed colleagues and colleagues allow me to recommend reading the story of Carmen Loncharek, "Drive and let die.". Here this problem is analyzed in life by car, not so rarely trying to show social status, it sometimes symbolizes the way of life, for some, offers us older people youth. But it is our duty as mature men to respect their own but also other people's lives. Even these repressive measures will not work unless we influence ourselves and our children. Let's try to warn them that the car primarily serves to reach from point A to point B. And they don't have to prove themselves that way as Formula One drivers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10061	Thank you very much. We have one replica. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10062	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You've presented your statistics as arguments for your presentation and that's good. I also did a little follow-up on the statistics from which I concluded that there are only two causes of traffic accidents in Croatia, and these are traffic participants and their possible errors and vehicles, i.e. their possible malfunction. Because according to statistics, more than 92% of the causes of traffic accidents are these two culprits. But in Europe, there is also a third culprit of traffic accidents, which is a road, whether poorly designed, poorly executed, poorly maintained and the traffic situation is recognised and treated as an equally important and dangerous cause, a potential cause of traffic accidents and traffic safety. In my first reading, I suggested that we give authority to the traffic police to prevent and also to repress against the road owner, i.e. the one responsible for the traffic situation, local, county or state road. Therefore, that traffic police have the authority to exclude traffic, i.e. to prohibit traffic on roads and roads for which they are estimated not to be safe for traffic. The proposer has already rejected this in his statement and the proposal, the final proposal for a law, shows that he does not accept it. We're going with a lot of repression towards drivers, or road users. But according to those responsible for the traffic situation, there is no such repression and I prove it by the word of the minister, so far a pardon has been filed, only one criminal complaint against those responsible for the traffic situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10063	Thank you. Answer Mr. Representative Bruno Kurelić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10064	... the causes of traffic accidents and this segment that I haven't talked about and these are bad roads. [[Specially enabled.]] As far as statistics are concerned, I've actually used it here a little bit by bringing it out numerically, I've used it according to the general expression parameter in a segment where the causes of accidents are often human as a person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10065	Thank you. Now we're going to the final five minutes of clubs that called. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Boris Sprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10066	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Honorable colleagues and colleagues. I have to say one more time, even if it's already become and boring when, therefore, the agenda for this session of the Parliament has been adopted, when the prime minister respected the SDP Club's proposal to go into two readings, I mentioned the word consensus, and I thought that word and that notion would lead us to the end. I'm still hoping they'll lead us to the end because it's not the end of the law. And as far as the law itself is concerned, I could finally say on behalf of the SDP Club next. Unfortunately, this Law does not solve problems but creates them. Where does he make them? If we just take it and go to the... The beginning of the law itself is a man in the form of a driver only appears in 64 places of 94,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then it already says what we have in mind about traffic safety because three factors are important for traffic safety other than, of course, human beings, they're vehicles and roads. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today, I still don't understand what the coalition government is getting by abolishing the so-called Institute. "Employee driver" and introduces so-called "young driver from 16 to 24"? I'll tell you, it gets to have an even bigger mess in that category. I know that in the European Union it has been accepted as a general standard for the definition of a young driver from 16 to 24 years, but that does not mean that within that age framework national legislation cannot be applied to traffic safety so that it decides how it fits. And we're just starting with those two years as a traineeship now we're cutting it off. And what's going to happen? Look at the law now. The road safety law now says that the obligation for the two years of traineeship and it limits everything mentioned in the law from the speed of movement and so on, alcohol, applies to all those who passed the driving test after 20 August 2004. And those who are, and now the law is passed... to 24 so those who are already at least 4 years old with 18 years of driving license will now be going through what they have not had to go through. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So please remove it from, from it, and that's where we've also proposed an amendment to you. What the coalition government gets by abolishing the centres of safe driving where experience is one of the crucial criteria for obtaining this driving experience in order to enhance the safety of that driver and all participants in traffic. Mrs. Roksandić replicated to me yesterday, and I couldn't return it, so I'm asking here what the coalition government is getting by failing to introduce traffic education as an object in kindergarten and elementary school or elementary school, first of all. And it says in the National Road Safety Programme adopted in February 2006 that it will introduce. So why don't you decide whether you're going to introduce that traffic training or not? We can't say we're going to burden the child with that. We'll load him up, but with what? I guess it's important stuff. Learn to move in traffic, and let some other content be reduced so that children are less burdened. And in the end, I announce, or you see, we submit as a Club of Representatives of the SDP amendment to the programs and centres of safe driving to remain that institute, to remain. We pray once again because I said that this should not be fully applied until 2013 but let us prepare. For the first time, we suggest that the concept of so-called concept be introduced in the wording. black dots of therefore dangerous places that have shown whose... showed great results. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the legislator knows that very well. And the obligation of road owners to make sure of those black spots when they happen as a reality. For 14 years we've been proposing to be not 16 years, the first driving experience for whom? For those kids who finish primary school and who go to high school and because there is no organised public transport in many of our environments and then because they do not legally train those children, these children are unfortunately illegally injured. And we had it before 2004. And we broke that tradition and have more victims. I don't understand that. As far as 0.1 is concerned Done? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Excuse me, but let me just say this, please. [[/Intruder: A long time ago.]] As for the 0.0 change, in order for a citizen to be unequal to another citizen, he must have another citizen, but here we create an inequality of citizens in front of himself. [[Come on.]] Many have explained this especially, Mr. Leco, how does this happen? It happens by going to traffic in a way that you drink a glass of alcohol and then you think you won't be guilty of anything, then stop a cop, and you're guilty of some other act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10067	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10068	Thank you, Mr. President. So a colleague reiterated the thesis that has been going through these last two days that traffic education has not been introduced into schools and that it is an obligation and so on. Well, traffic education is in place. That's what we've been claiming for two days, through an object called technical culture. So that's what you learn in elementary schools for 4 years, from 5th to 8th grade. And plus there are extracurricular activities, there's a state competition. So the school state traffic safety competition. But then, I'm a traffic training officer, so it doesn't have to be a special subject. He's already a present object called technical culture, so. And the other thing is not true that this law creates problems. He doesn't make them. We are really trying to solve the issue of traffic safety, and that is the basic urgency, not the creation of a problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10069	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10070	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, I will only repeat one sentence that I said yesterday that this law is worse than the one that is now in force. The one with whom we call the 0.0 promila law, which unfortunately is not just voted by the votes of today's position. This law is a bad combination of the law of 0.0 prominence and absurd punishments. I have the impression that this law has nothing to do with reality. It looks like it's written by people who have lost every reality with the real world. Yesterday we discussed a minimum wage of 2 thousand 747 kuna and on the other hand we now propose a whole series, a set of fines for banal violations of one quarter, one third, half, and more than that salary. A lot of people are gonna have to go to jail 'cause they won't have a ticket. At this moment, 13,000 people in the Republic of Croatia are waiting for a sentence. It's a 13km column when everyone's holding their shoulders. If we want everyone to go on, to serve these sentences in prison we're going to have to just single out one budget to support the punishment of these people. In this country, if you destroy the bank, I don't know which one or Lenac damages 800 million kunas won't happen to you. And if you drive 20 kilometers faster than you're allowed and you don't have a ticket, then you have to go to jail. It seems that in this country it is better to be a tough criminal than to drive 20 kilometers an hour faster than prescribed. And then that's justice in the Croatian way. This law, as I said yesterday, is a law for people driving drivers, for ministers, for union presidents, for members of public business administrations or for Croatian tycoons. Yesterday, Mrs. Petyr said that only the Counts used to have cars and today is such a time that the fines will also be able to pay only the Counts. However, unlike perhaps 1890 and some or 1936, a car today is a dry need such as a dry need for a refrigerator, electricity, or television. In one word, he is our daily bread, and therefore there is no excessive punishment. It doesn't make sense that the fines in Croatia are bigger than in Germany. In Germany you can drive on highways without restrictions and have fewer deaths than in Croatia. In England you can drive with 0.8 promilas and still have fewer deaths on the roads than in the Republic of Croatia. This gain that is in force leaves a provision of 0.0 prominence if you commit another and the most banal offense. It's something that offends common sense. I won't talk about it again, but I'll say it's a Croatian invention. Unfortunately, a bad invention, but I ask you to take care of foreigners when they are on the Croatian Adriatic or I don't know where else to be present as tourists and don't punish them in this way, so don't rip their skin out because that's how you'll do damage to the country as a whole. There's something else I want to say. A driver who gets a category B at age 18 to 24 must not drive a car of 100 horsepower, but at age 19, if he has a C category, he can drive a boot and carry, for example, 30 or 40000 kg of a load. And then there's the question of who's reasonable here? Or up to 24 years of age, you have to drive a car up to 100 horsepower, but that's why with 21 years of age you can drive a bus on that bus and 40 or 50 passengers. It just doesn't make sense. And it does not make sense, for example, that the captain of the ship can drive a ship full of oil and land in Omisalj with 0.5 proms, that the captain of the plane can drive a bus from Zagreb to Frankfurt with 200 or 300 passengers with 0.5 proms, and that the driver of a truck or a van in Croatia cannot sit behind that van and drink at the same time a beer. Because of this illogicality, I would suggest that those as ship captains can also drink a glass of beer after lunch or a glass of wine. But if they are caught in the presence of more than 0.5 alcohol in their blood, then the clear punishment for them is far more drastic than for the other drivers, and God and young drivers when they go out to the disco we all know they're drinking something, so let them also drink those 0.3 spills because nobody's gonna convince me that they're only drinking coffee and lemonade all night. Okay, there are some positive elements in this law. Not that it wasn't something positive happened after 2004 because the number of deaths still fell on our roads. But it's primarily the consequences of hundreds of new kilometers that have been put into traffic, and I wouldn't say one law that asked if he had given any effects, although I agree if one of us had happened to have a son or a daughter or someone from a family get hurt on the road, then no punishment for us at that point would be too small.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10071	Thank you. We have two corrections. Mr. Shime Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10072	Thank you very much. I'm correcting Mr. Cain's false claim that he has repeatedly said, which is that the SDP club voted for this law. It's incorrect because here's what I'm going to quote Mr. Shakespeare. I find that with 70 votes for, with 34 against and 5 abstentions, the Road Safety Act has been passed. Take the 2004 minutes. Unless Mr. Cain thinks he's had 34 or 39 MPs in his last meeting, or God forbid someone from HDZ voted past the other promoters. So, Mr. Cain, please don't improvise at least when you're accusing other agents. Get ready!
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10073	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10074	... And the incorrect findings that call me here unnecessarily again will be repeated. [[The speaker was subsequently activated.]] I was sitting there watching who was from your club. Mr. Lucin raised his hand for that law of 0.0 prominence. [[- What's the injury?]] I didn't say it was you, nor Mr. Linic, but I know your MPs who helped HDZ pass that law. [[/Intruder: What is the breach of the Rules of Procedure?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10075	There was no invitation to the article, neither was it spoken nor was it said in which the Rules of Procedure was injured. Please don't use that instrument for controversy. We have a correction to Mr. Frano Matušić's incorrect quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10076	Thank you, Mr. President. counterpart Cain incorrectly claimed that the reduction in the number of deaths could not be attributed to the results of the adoption of this law in 2004. That's not true, it's traffic. It's simply not because the highways get killed, and they get killed on the highways. Moreover, there is every accident more or less fatal with fatal consequences, so with the deceased in those accidents, and look, compare the number of deaths in 2003 and 2004, you will see a drastic fall, with the fact that by half of 2004 the old law was still in force where the number was increased compared to the first six months and compared to 2003. But by the end of the year, there was a significant decrease in the number of road deaths. So, you can safely say thanks to the 0.0 promiscation law because there was a awareness of drivers who consumed alcohol that this should not be done while driving.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10077	Thank you. And finally five minutes. On behalf of the HSS Club, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10078	Mr. President, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. The HSS representative club believes that this law is not ideal but is a step forward when it comes to introducing order and increasing road safety. We consider it in the HSS and we talked about it both in the first and second readings so that the law would be better, and in any case fairer if a proportionate way of punishment was introduced, because then we would take care of the property of our citizens, and not all of them would be put in the same basket and those tycoons who don't know where they're going with the money and those who barely survive. But what is true is that the penalties did not actually increase, but only this law was in line with the Law on Violations, which means that, in addition to the minimum, maximum penalties are stated in the law. There's been a lot of debate here about 0.0 and 0.5 and different structures of witch exorcising, but what we can say at the HSS Club that we've been pushing for 0.0 to be abolished since 2004. We welcome that through this law 0.0 is abolished, but we are also asking the motion that all the ambiguities and illogicalities mentioned by other MPs be removed until the adoption of this bill. We are pleased to finally understand that the 0,0 promila provision has not made any progress, and that it has damaged Croatian winemaking, agriculture in general and tourism and the abolition of 0.0 promilas were also welcomed by Zagreb County winemakers in particular Jaska County, and therefore we invite all those who want to come to the Club of Representatives of HSS and attend the presentation of the indigenous wine varieties of Zagreb County. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10079	Thank you very much. We've got correction one, Boris Shmrem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10080	Mr. President, let me just say that it is indeed an incorrect allegation that Miss Pettir, the distinguished MPs, that the penalties are not increased by this law, but that there is a moment of alignment with the Law of Infractions. It is true that this effort was made to comply with the Law of Infractions, only they should not have been so high a penalty, they could have been lower sentences and it would have been the same compliance with the Law of Infringements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10081	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10082	Thank you, Mr. President. It is an incorrect assumption that the 0.0 promila law has not yielded results. I'll repeat the statistics one more time. In 2003, over 700 people died, in mid-2004, the law was only passed, and at the end of the year we had 600 deaths, at the same time in the first 6 months we had an increase in deaths compared to 2003. So, a drastic reduction in the number of deaths in the 2nd half of 2004 when the law was passed and really very much talked about in the media today.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10083	Thank you. And on behalf of the promoter, Mr. Ivica Buconjic, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10084	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have already intervened when I felt that the debates of some MPs might have gone a little too hard to dispute the positive results that this law has undoubtedly passed. So my goal was simply to point out that it wasn't true, that it wasn't true that the law that we're changing didn't bring any positive results. What Representative Matušić said, I can only repeat. These trends, which were in 2003 and the first half of 2004, mean in the term of the government were really scary and the government had to intervene. The intervention was the first through the adoption of this law, which unfortunately turned coloquial only into the law of 0.0. However, that provision 0.0 was not the only measure which was, or the paper or which was the measure introduced by this law. There have been a number of other measures and all these measures have certainly yielded results in these figures that can be seen for 2004, 2005 and 2006. Unfortunately, the effect of this law has passed last year, and in the first few months of this year, it has begun to deteriorate again, and that is why we have set out to change the law. We can't calmly look at these negative trends and if we were satisfied with the situation, we certainly wouldn't be going into a new law. It's these very negative trends, just these figures that must surely be worrying us, that's why we're going to make a new law. Just as the adoption of the previous law was challenged in 2004, despite our arguments, it is now challenging to pass this law. As we were then convinced when we passed this, still valid law that it would bring certain improvements, so we are also now confident and confident that the adoption of this law will certainly improve the state of road safety. Of course, as I've already said, the MUP doesn't have the only monopoly over the road safety situation, but we have the greatest responsibility and that's why we've proposed this law. We understand that the increased safety of all road users, especially young people and children, cannot be achieved only through the work of the Ministry of Transport, but is the problem of the whole society, starting with the education system, starting with NGOs and associations, starting with the Ministry of Transport, so all institutions that have any influence on all of us as road users in any way. There were also a lot of stories here about discrimination against young people, that this law is too harsh for young people. We simply had to take certain measures already in the previous law, now we have complemented them, or some things have been modified because the share of young drivers in the general driver population is 11%, but they unfortunately make up 23% of the most serious traffic offences. That was the reason and motive why young drivers were in particular focus on both this law and the past law. Whether that provision called for to be unconstitutional, it can be checked through all legal mechanisms, we think it's not unconstitutional because we've put young drivers in the increased focus of this law because I think it's our goal and interest to just protect that category of drivers that suffers the most in traffic. As for the observation that the sentences are dragonish, that someone has even mentioned the harsh word of a hack, we were not at all interested in filling the budget with the criminal policy of this law because we still have 221 penalties, 100 of them are below 300 kuna and we selectively sought to increase fines for those most severe violations that cause the most serious consequences in traffic. So, this is not an indiscriminate increase in fines and other penalties for all violations, but we have selectively tried to tackle those violations that have proved to be the most serious causes of traffic violations, in which traffic participants are most often and most affected. And in the end, it's clear to me that this law is not perfect and that he himself will not be able to resolve this situation in traffic. We hope that by adopting it again we will stop these negative trends and establish positive trends, however, from the very law that is in line with many other laws, and with the Criminal Law, with many other institutions that must surely have their place in Croatian society in countering these negative trends in road safety. So we're sure he'll re-establish better trends and he'll be a starting point, I repeat the starting base again. In itself, it certainly won't lead to that target figure of eight fatalities per 100,000 inhabitants. It can only provide a platform, and all other participants and institutions must do their job in order to reach that desired figure of 8 fatalities per 100,000 inhabitants. In the end I have indeed, here I have listened carefully to all the remarks, I will report to the minister until the vote we will try really well to study because certain remarks have made sense to me and to life and certain that they can in some way improve this bill proposal, I hope that we will be able to adopt it, but that we will not violate the consistency and fundamental intensity of this law and that we will all have together either this Friday or the day when the vote of law will be acceptable to the great majority of MPs, all in order to pass laws that will reduce these negative trends. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10085	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. They'll vote when the conditions are met. Final draft road safety law, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 39. After the debate was concluded, the government submitted amendments. In accordance with Article 166. The Rules of Procedure on amendments submitted must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present. Who agrees to discuss the government's amendments? Please, let's get involved and vote. ... They're divided. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This proposal to discuss the government's amendments accepted by most votes, 86 for, 9 abstentions and 2 against. I ask the applicant's representative to further explain the amendments. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10087	Dear sir, ladies and gentlemen of the council. I will briefly explain Amendments 1 and 2. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. The first amendment relates to Articles 205(2) and (3), as compared to the final draft of the law, is amended and read as follows: "(2) The programme, the conditions and manner of implementation of the driver's periodic education programme, the issuing of approval, the keeping of records, the costs of implementation and the appearance of a certificate of periodic education will be prescribed by the Minister responsible for transport operations. (3) Administrative and inspection oversight of the conduct of the operations referred to in this Article shall be carried out by the Ministry of Traffic Affairs." Reason: The amendment is proposed to align the provisions of the Final Proposal of the Road Safety Act with the provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Road Transport Act, which was adopted at the meeting of the Parliament held on 21 May 2008. In accordance with the obligations of the Republic of Croatia in the process of negotiations in the accession of the European Union in Chapter 14 – Transport policy, in the section relating to the periodic education of professional drivers, the same substance is to be incorporated into the provisions of the Road Safety Act. In view of the fact that the Law amending and supplementing the Road Transport Act adopted by an emergency procedure at the meeting of the Assembly on 21 May 2008, whose provisions dealing with the periodic training of drivers differed from the final proposal, the final draft of the law in this section, differing from the provisions of this final draft law, it was necessary to bring the alignment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10088	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I am opening a debate on the proposal for this amendment. I am concluding the debate and giving the amendment, this 1st amendment to the vote. Please, let's get on with it. Who's in? It's about amendments, all amendments, hand-to-hand voting. Who is for this amendment to the government? Thank you. Against? There isn't. One. Restraint? I find that most votes with one against this amendment of the government have been accepted. Please, second amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10089	2. The government's amendment refers to Article 310. it is proposed to replace the words "day of entry" with the words "day of accession" in the context of Croatia's accession to the European Union. The amendment is proposed for nomotechnical and linguistic arrangements.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10090	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Who is for this 2nd amendment of the Government please raise your hand. Thank you. Do you mind? Abstained? There isn't. And the 2nd amendment of the government was accepted. Now I ask you to review the other amendments submitted to the benches, so please let's get on with it. First is the Committee on Legislatives, 1st Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10091	The first amendment is adopted by the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10092	It's becoming an integral part. Thank you. Two, Agent Silvan Hrelje.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10093	The second amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes that the provisions of Article 2(1), point 49, be deleted from the words "minimum". It's a definition that includes bicycles. There are also by technical use and operational use bicycles with more than two wheels. They are certified and this provision would prevent the use of bicycles with more than two wheels.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10094	Thank you. Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10095	I think bikes with one wheel or one wheel are called a monocycle, with three wheels is a tricycle, and bicycles with child wheels are not allowed in public transport. So, the thing is clean. It should not be said at least that the bike is a vehicle with at least two wheels. I think it's kind of lame. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10096	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. SDP Representatives' Club, 3rd Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10097	The amendment is proposed to add a new point 81 to point 80 of Article 2 of the Law, which reads as follows: "'Black point' is the intersection or section of the road of up to 300 metres, if it meets one of the following criteria: a) if 12 or more accidents with injured persons occurred in a critical location in the previous three years, b) if, in the previous three years, 15 or more traffic accidents were recorded in the observed location, regardless of the consequences and c), if three or more similar traffic accidents occurred in the previous three years in which the same groups of participants participated in the same directions. Points 81 to 94 so far become points 82 to 95." The government doesn't accept the amendment. The provisions of Article 2 of the terms of reference define certain more important terms that are more frequently used in the text of the final draft law. In addition, the definition of the notion of "black point" as proposed by the amendment promoter suggests that "black point" would only be considered a section of the road on which traffic accidents occurred with certain consequences in the proposed periods. The fact is that certain intersections and road parts pose a danger, although there were no traffic accidents on them. In addition, there is a National Road Safety Programme in the Republic of Croatia. If such a definition of "black spots" could be accepted, it would not be possible to finance the resolution of dangerous sites under the Croatian Government's National Programme. The proposed criteria wouldn't include around 40% of the places that have been recovered so far. The government therefore does not accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10098	Thank you. Representatives' club, here you go, Mr. Boris Sprem.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10099	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Fellow Members and colleagues, not an explanation given by the proposing representative, is sufficient reason to reject the amendment. So black dots are those points where, after a while, there are traffic accidents that are common and tragic, especially tragic consequences. And after that, those dots are being rescheduled. And there was the government, both the previous and the present, with very good results. We felt that it was good to include this matter also with the provision of an article that spoke, as the minister said in the dictionary, as well as in the next article which is also an amendment. Thank you. Voting on the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10100	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 4, SDP's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10101	The government doesn't accept the amendment. The Croatian Parliament can discuss any subject which is put on the agenda in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and we therefore hold that it is not necessary to prescribe the proposed provision.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10102	Mr. Boris Sprem, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10103	Unfortunately, Mr. President, this is one of the classic examples of the government's relationship to the road safety issue. So, when the Parliament asks the Government to accept an amendment that speaks of a parliament being at least one year at a time to discuss the state of traffic safety on the roads, it is not accepted. He says that, Mr. Secretary, you can always argue. Well, of course, but I guess in a kind of organized order, and this is an organized order, so at least once a year. Please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10104	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 5, also the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10105	The government doesn't accept the amendment. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10106	Thank you. Mr. Sprem, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10107	Can I ask you a question on behalf of the club?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10108	On behalf of the club?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10109	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10110	On behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10111	Yes, I can understand that this one is not accepted because it hasn't even been accepted in advance, so it's only then logical consequences because it hasn't been accepted before. I don't have anything else to say. The vote on the amendment. It doesn't make any sense to vote on the amendment as far as we're concerned.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10112	The amendment has been withdrawn. 6 amendments to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10113	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10114	It's becoming an integral part. 7, MP Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10115	The government doesn't accept the amendment. We believe that the transport of bicycles is sufficiently detailed in the provisions of articles 112 to 115 of the final draft law. In addition, for each intersection for which traffic signalling is set, a transport project shall be carried out by which an expert or organisation shall develop the type and level of necessary signalling.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10116	Thank you. Mrs. Maria Lugaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10117	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. In my amendment, I ask that at 3:00 a.m. Head which regulates traffic lights and light markings where they are defined to simplify traffic lights, so these classic traffic traffic traffic traffic traffic traffic traffic lights and pedestrian traffic lights are also added to bike traffic lights. If your explanation stands then you should not specifically specify in this chapter traffic traffic traffic traffic traffic traffic traffic traffic lights or other conventional vehicles. On the other hand, these bike traffic lights are already reality. Here in Gundulić you have when we come here to the Assembly of these traffic lights, with us in New Zagreb they also exist and all light marks and traffic lights must be defined in this law. On the other hand, given that the prices of oil derivatives, gasoline and other growth in the sky are expected to increase the number of people moving on bicycles, this is already happening in Zagreb. I think it's really necessary to arrange for bike traffic lights, because they just exist. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10118	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 8, Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10119	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10120	It's becoming an integral part. 9, SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10121	The government doesn't accept the amendment. That provision of the final proposal of the law is complete and understandable and it is clear from which side the vehicle may be threatened and possible derogations in a specific place are regulated by a traffic sign.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10122	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, Mr. Boris Sprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10123	Mr. President. It would lead us far away now if I were to explain on the other hand why this provision is unclear. It's precisely because it's unclear we've asked to explain it but the promoter doesn't accept it. I wouldn't really explain it beyond that. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10124	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Ten amendments to the same club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10125	The government doesn't accept the amendment. In accordance with the provisions of Article 5(6) of the final proposal of the law of the unit of regional and regional self-government, with the prior consent of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the parking areas and the way of parking, parking bans and parking restrictions and the penalty for non-compliance under that provision are laid down in the provisions of paragraph 13 of that Article.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10126	On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, Mr. Sprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10127	Mr. President. So this is about an amendment that solves that when parking is not allowed and exactly lists where parking is not allowed to predict punishment if a legal or physical person does not give God and they have done it and do a parking space where it is prohibited by law. Well, I don't see any reason for the government not to accept an amendment that regulates the punishment for that and that high fine. It needs high fines, not in other places where we've seen it all over the law where it's gone too far with those fines. I'm asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10128	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 11, same SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10129	The government doesn't accept the amendment. The vehicle may be moved only after it has been established that an illegal parking offence has been committed for which an infringement order is issued.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10130	Here you go, Mr. Representative Boris Šprem.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10131	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So when someone improperly parks a vehicle then practically without him being found to have committed a misdemeanor he has to pay the fine. And we suggested that he be found guilty first, that he was responsible, so that he would pay the fine. The case-law is exactly what it says in favour of this amendment that it does not determine guilt but rather that it simply has to pay the penalty. Therefore, there is no reason not to accept this amendment. I'm proposing a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10132	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 12, same club SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10133	The government doesn't accept the amendment. The responsibility of the responsible person shall also be determined in the infringement procedure. If the amendment of the proposal was accepted, the responsibility of the responsible person in monitoring the use of the euro hook would be excluded, which is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10134	Thank you. The SDP club, Mr. Sprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10135	Look, it is not prescribed anywhere by the European Union that a driver should be punished if he has a hook and does not drive a trailer. I didn't see it anywhere, maybe you did. As you may have seen some country, I'm not, which has this 0,0 prominence to 0.5 this way as you suggest. I didn't see or hear. Voting on the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10136	Please, who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 13, same SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10137	The government doesn't accept the amendment. We believe that the proposed distances are too large and that in the average conditions of traffic the pedestrian would not be able to detect the set traffic sign.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10138	Mr. Sprem, the SDP counseling club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10139	I see no rational amendment passes, so I don't know if it makes any more sense to explain the amendments. I don't think so. But I'll explain it anyway. So, on foot when it crosses the road there's 50 meters apart we're asking it to be 100 meters away so it has to go to a walking crossing so it doesn't get run down by, say, a freight vehicle that drives fast across the Bologne Avenue and Dubrovnik Avenue. What's going on? But you don't accept what I can do. I suggest we vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10140	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 14, same SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10141	The government doesn't accept the amendment. We believe that the proposed amount of fines in the final draft law is high enough to achieve the purpose of punishment and balance with other infringements in this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10142	On behalf of the club, Mr. Sprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10143	So this is a rare case where the SDP club thinks it is necessary to increase the sentence because the parent is irresponsiblely treating his child because he did not ensure that the child is fastened by a belt. We suggest that the penalty be not 500 but 1,000 kuna. And we don't think that's too much, but we think that a lot of the other punishments you've predicted are dragonish and too much. I ask to vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10144	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 15, Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10145	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10146	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 16, IDS Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10147	The government doesn't accept the amendment. The provision of Article 90 of the final proposal for a law stipulates that only one vehicle for the transport of persons may be added to the motor vehicle. The provision of Article 171(1) of the final proposal for a law requires that vehicles used for tourist purposes in parks, hotel tourist and similar settlements may be added to a tow vehicle by up to four vehicles for the transport of persons, etc. tourist train. Exceptionally from the provisions of Articles 90 and 71(1) of the final proposal of the law, a tow vehicle used for tourist purposes for normal traffic movement shall be added two trailers of Article 171(2). Therefore, we hold that for security reasons, the number of connected vehicles cannot be increased under the conditions of regular traffic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10148	Thank you. On behalf of the club, Mr. Marin Brkarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10149	Well, I'd say it's another reasonable amendment. We are proposing exactly and it is also in line with the European Union directives that a tow vehicle can be 18.75 length and that is exactly what fits. I think tourist trains are one additional offer of tourism in this. And I suggest we vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10150	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 17. HSLS and HSU representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10151	The government doesn't accept the amendment. We believe that the provisions on penalties for driving a driver who has alcohol in the body are regulated in an appropriate manner because, for the time being, conditions have been met according to the results of official statistics, provisions for drivers having more than 0,0 alcohol in the body and up to 0,5 changes have been tempered as proposed in the provision of Article 199 of the final draft of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10152	Thank you. In the name of the club, sir, please. Mr. Horvath. Is that right? Mr. Antun Korushec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10153	Thank you very much, Mr. President, let me just say briefly that Article 3 of Article 199 of the individual debates on the law in question and the debate of the clubs of MPs as well as the submission of the amendment have brought the greatest attention and, in fact, Article 3 of Article 199 of the most amendments there are club representatives. Still, after all, and I do not want to waste my time and repeat the arguments that have been presented during the debate and the illogicalness that will be done if the erasure of paragraph 3 is not accepted, I continue to believe that the adoption of this amendment is necessary, that it is objective, and therefore, on behalf of the club, I would ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10154	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 18 SDP representatives' clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10155	The Government does not accept the amendment with the same explanation as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10156	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Representative Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10157	In fact, it is the same amendment, but I think it is worth saying another letter about this, about this provision in Article 199(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Not only is there no such provision anywhere in Europe, but also because you probably entered the history of criminal law by this provision. Because criminal law is a criminal law in a broad sense of the word. Namely, there are two demands that someone be punished. That his shop and some harmful consequences have a causal relationship. There's no causal connection here. That's a first, or at least it's not proven. And secondly, in order for some store to be punishable, it must be banned at the moment of initiation. It's legal and it's not prohibited to start driving up to 0.5%, but later when it is behind the wheel, it becomes punishable. So, it's about an absurdity that cuts the most important criminal law, and I actually have to say that I'm amazed that the government insists on this provision.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10158	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 19 Clubs representative of IDS.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10159	The government does not accept the amendment with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10160	.../The speaker did not turn on./...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10161	Here, I'm going to say briefly that the government is sending this message that the law of 0.0 prominence remains in force. It's unacceptable to us, and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10162	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 20 SDP representatives' clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10163	The government doesn't accept the amendment. The provisions of the Law on the Croatian Red Cross, which was published in "The People's News", 92 of 2001, stipulates that training from the subject of providing first aid to persons injured in traffic accidents is performed by the Croatian Red Cross.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10164	Thank you. In the name of the club, Mr. Sprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10165	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, but the Road Safety Act as a special law in 2004, so, later or later, that law was from the Law on the Croatian Red Cross, and regulated that, and is still regulated by this one, which we are discussing today, did not come into force that training candidates for drivers is a unique teaching process consisting of three subjects. And he was doing all three classes in auto-schools. Now you're suggesting that first aid be provided in the Red Cross. You have some not a little, small places that don't have branches of the red cross, and everywhere you have auto-schools. And now someone's gonna lay down, let the kids be, because they're mostly kids, when they're 18, first they're going to be in one city of traffic regulations and then they're going to go to another town where the Red Cross is, providing first aid, so they're going to come back to take control of the motor vehicle. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10166	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 21 SDP representatives' clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10167	The government doesn't accept the amendment. The proposed provision would lead to a reduction in the level of expertise of persons participating in the driver training process. The professional leader is the most responsible person in this process. His knowledge must be dominant in the area of transport. Training candidates for drivers and road safety, primarily studying at the Faculty of Transport Sciences, therefore the government does not accept the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10168	Government. In the name of the club, Mr. Sprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10169	The fact that professional auto school leaders cannot be persons but only those who have attended law school and cannot be persons who have completed the education course or legal course, especially the law school is inadmissible. And now it's been going on for years and now it's stopping. And the frames are gone. Very interesting. Now we'll have a situation again then, like with doctors. Let's say pediatricians. There are no pediatricians in Croatia when someone goes to the hospital, and they have to leave for three months then there's no one to replace them, and the patients are waiting, so I guess we'll do this. Thank you very much. I'm asking for a vote!
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10170	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 22 of SDP's, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10171	The government does not accept the amendment because the taste of this amendment is already covered by the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted by the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10172	Thank you. On behalf of the club, Mr. Boris Sprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10173	So it's the only amendment that's actually accepted. Because that's what the government has translated into its amendment. It's not very significant, but at least one. Thank you very much. I'm not asking for a vote on the amendment because it's already accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10174	Thank you. The amendment was withdrawn because it was already consumed. 23rd same club of SDP representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10175	The government does not accept the amendments because all auto-schools must meet all the required requirements when obtaining a licence, and if they do not meet them, they have failed to comply with the regulations, and we hold that they do not need to be given any time limit to remove the deficiencies because they must not be in the car-school movement at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10176	On behalf of the club, Mr. Boris Sprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10177	It's another amendment the government doesn't explain with any arguments, of course, but it doesn't accept. It is that if auto-school or people employed in it as experts make a certain failure, the ministry immediately goes to close the car-school. Instead of what we suggest that the degree of the matter be done in a way that first removes the deficiencies within a short period of time and then be careful, please, we suggest that you set a fine. And it doesn't have to be small. It's a matter of government. This would fill even the state budget and allow auto-schools to function regularly. That when children are then young and 18-year-old girls are in the training process that when auto-school is closed, they shouldn't ask for a move to another car school. I'm stressing because of the small gaps. Therefore, these small gaps can be corrected not immediately by closing but first by solving a preventive fact that corrects the behavior of auto-school staff or auto-school staff. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10178	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 24. The Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10179	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10180	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 25. A SDP counseling club?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10181	The government doesn't accept the amendment. The 2006 Directive. The European Union has prescribed 16 years of age for the management of the vehicle “N” category as well as an increase in age limits for all other categories of vehicle. For example, in that Directive for the acquisition of an "A" category, a 24-year life span is required unless the candidate has two years of experience with category A2. In addition, driving licences issued to persons of lower age than those prescribed in the Directive would only be valid on the territory of the Member State which issued them. The total intensity of this law and general policy, transport policy in Europe as regards road transport, is an increase in life-cycle by, as a possibility of managing certain categories of vehicles.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10182	Thank you. On behalf of the club, Mr. Boris Sprem.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10183	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. Now, what you said in your explanation is that a 14-year-old cannot manage a moped and therefore illegal because that's what our children unfortunately do and their parents somehow allow them to get to school, drive mopeds and get hurt. Because we don't allow them what we had years ago to do. But you, in part, but you only partially manipulate information because the European Union directive states that what we are proposing can therefore be allowed, but I say that in part, but within the country you said that these children are driving in the country. I can't go out driving at the same time. But don't say that, the other thing is that you can't do it. It's possible that we're the only ones who don't want it. With consequences of course you can't predict right now. I can, unfortunately. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10184	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 26th of the same SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10185	The government doesn't accept the amendment. In the Republic of Croatia, the conditions for mandatory implementation of the safety driving programme are not met because there is only one safety driving centre and for optimal implementation the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia needs to be covered. Since it is currently not possible to ensure the uniform availability of this service, the Government does not accept the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10186	Thank you. On behalf of the club, Mr. Boris Sprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10187	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, you could have made an effort to explain this amendment a little more strongly than you refuse. I tried to explain it through the first and second readings, so I tried to bring him in to the point in a way that had only been applied since 2013. I said why. So it's a safe-driving institute, not just in the safety-driving centers. Here you are talking about a safe driving programme that the Minister of the Interior should prescribe during a period of time. And then to organize the centers of safe driving, one already exists. Three more needs at least in the Republic of Croatia. And after four, four and a half years it starts to apply. And why is it that the institute starts to apply? Because that's what it is. additional training. When a young man finishes his 18-year-old car and passes his driving test, it takes him two years to get better. At least that's how it's been in practice so far, but then he still needs to go through these safety-driving centers to master driving techniques that he could use if there were as few road casualties as possible. He just said that in Austria, a phenomenal result has been achieved. 30% decreased traffic accidents in the category 18 to 21 years after the application of this institute. And you're easily erasing it as a possibility. As Mr. Josipovic said about the 0,0 amendment, and I am amazed that you do not accept this after our argument. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10188	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 27th representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10189	The government doesn't accept the amendment. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia has rights and freedoms independent of its race, skin colour, sex, language, religion, political or other belief, national or social origin and property, birth, education, social position or other persons. So the Croatian Constitution does not know the discrimination of life. Furthermore, in Croatian legislation, many rights and obligations of citizens are related to a certain age. The government therefore does not accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10190	Thank you. Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10191	Mr. Minister, if I heard correctly you said that the Croatian Constitution, that this is, that discrimination by age is allowed because the Croatian Constitution does not prohibit discrimination after age. [[No, it's not true.]] So you said Croatian Constitution does not prohibit discrimination after age [[No, I didn't say that.]] If you did not say that, then you wrote it in an explanation on page 124. [[No, I didn't say that.]] It's just unacceptable to me. This Law discriminates against drivers not by driving training, so not by doing so are new drivers, under-experienced drivers or drivers, having a certain number of years of driving training but discriminating one group of citizens between 16 and 24 years of age. Article 14(2) The Constitution says that all before the law are equal According to you, your law stipulates that before the law, not everyone is equal. [[Intruder: Exactly.]] One law and one provision apply to persons 16 to 24 years of age, and other provisions apply to all others. If you had redefined the concept of a young driver with your amendment and tied it to a driving experience, then my objection wouldn't have made sense. Since you, in accordance with your amendment, have not changed this, but have continued to insist that not young drivers are discriminated against but drivers of a younger age I think this Law is contrary to the Constitution and that it is discriminatory for young people. The law prohibiting discrimination which we will now vote shortly after this Law expressly prohibits discrimination by age, which falls under Article 14. A constitution that prohibits discrimination on other aspects. So please vote. And I'm asking the MPs to... We really must not vote discrimination by age. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10192	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 29 of Dragutin Lesar's attorney? 28? [[/Intruder: 28.]] A SDP counseling club?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10193	The government doesn't accept the amendment. In the text of that Convention, there is no period of validity of the driving licence, but only in a sample of the form as an example of how the given period of 3 years is fulfilled. The shortest possible period on which a driving licence is issued according to the provisions of this final draft law is 5 years and the longest to 80 years of life. Only after 80 years of life can a driver's license be issued for less than five years only if there are restrictions related to medical convictions. Therefore, the government does not accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10194	Thank you. On behalf of the club, Mr. Representative Boris Sprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10195	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. I don't know if you at the Ministry of the Interior have a lawyer and if you've heard maybe that international contracts are above the law. This is an explanation, this amendment goes in the direction of making it clear that the Vienna Convention was ratified in 1968 in this Assembly and that it says there, even if you say it in their form, but it says there that an international driver's license is worth three years, not five years. And you've been repeating for years that it's worth five years. And we thought that at least you'd accept that when it's so clear. But you don't even accept it in this law. That's amazing. I ask to vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10196	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 29, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10197	The government doesn't accept the amendment. The fine referred to in Article 244 shall be prescribed only for infringements if the driver does not have the required number of registration plates or if those tiles or international markings are placed so that they are not well seen or not readable. That infringement described by the applicant in the amendment is linked to the non-stop violation of the sign of an authorised official for which a significantly higher fine is provided, and will also be punished for non-registration of the registration plate for non-compliance with the sign of an authorised official for which a fine of between 3 and 7000 kuna is proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10198	Thank you. Mr. Dragutin Lesar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10199	Mr. Minister, by not accepting this amendment, you are actually sending one important message to all those who abuse registration plates in such a way as to deliberately take them off when they are savaged by roads, because whether or not the traffic police subsequently caught him or not it was not the subject of an amendment, it is the fact that the intentional removal of tiles or their making them invisible, unreadable where the video is not valid as evidence and the amendment proposal was made precisely on the proposal, the initiative of the motor club most often exposed to repression because of those who do so. The fine of 300 kuna provided by the law is stimulating for those who deliberately commit traffic violations that are normally being punished with 5000 kuna, 7000 kuna, and I really don't see a valid reason not to accept this amendment. But you sent a message, so they'll keep doing it, and the traffic cops can only wave after them. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10200	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Legislative Committee, 30th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10201	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10202	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 31, Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10203	The government doesn't accept the amendment. We believe that the provisions on young drivers are defined in an appropriate manner. Since the concept of a young driver is related to life, not driving experience, because young drivers are very often underestimating the dangers and overestimating their own driving skills, and the fact that drivers of that age participate in approximately 20% of all traffic accidents and accidents in the same traffic accidents.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10204	Thank you. On behalf of the club, Mr. Representative Boris Sprem.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10205	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. Another classic lack of right. This is about the retroactivity that you are now inaugurating with this law. Namely, what it's about. The driver under the existing law that was passed in 2004 was so-called A test driver, let's say it's the one from 18 to 20 years old. For two years, he had restrictions on those two years to drive at a limited speed on highways, on other roads, limited exclusively for the transport of motor vehicles and not to drive a vehicle of more than 75 kilowatts. You know what you're doing now? Those young men and girls who were 18 years old and did not fall below that limit in 2004 because the law applied to those who obtained a driver’s license after 2004, and these were, for example, acquired in April, and this one was acquired at 11 months when the law came into force. Now those who have four years of driving training will have to have a restriction again, not again, but have restrictions that they have not had in the past four years, and have four years of internships. You're the only one who doesn't understand it, and I wrote it and explained it to you. Well, I don't know why you're doing it. What I can say. I have to go to the Constitutional Court with that, because you're... acquired rights. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's much worse than what Mrs. Lugaric was saying here about inequality. This is a double inequality. Thank you very much. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10206	Thank you. Who's up for the amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 32, also the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10207	The government doesn't accept the amendment. It's an explanation for the amendment to the 20th.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10208	Thank you. In the name of the club, Mr... Fall back? The amendment has been withdrawn. 33, Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10209	The government doesn't accept the amendment. The proposal for an amendment is not accepted since, contrary to the trend of the final draft law aimed at raising the expertise, i.e. the quality of training of candidates for drivers, the transitional period of five years is sufficient to meet the required conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10210	Thank you. Mr. Representative Boris Sprem on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10211	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. What can I say? You have 40 interrogators, 40 interrogators working at the Croatian Autoclub. Please! And there are no other interrogators in this country, but there are 40 of them and they have a higher level of expertise, and now they're being prevented from working for another five years, but they're being coerced, no matter how they don't, they're being forced to go to college, please at the age of 55. Well, I guess during the transitional period, it allows these people to retire, and anyway, these quality frames, I'm undermining high-quality ones in Croatia very little. I ask to vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10212	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 34, same SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10213	The government doesn't accept the amendment. Explanation as for Amendment 33.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10214	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Boris Sprem on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10215	My explanation is the same as for this previous amendment. I can't believe it! Thank you. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10216	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 35, Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10217	The government doesn't accept the amendment. That provision is an examination of the provisions of the Criminal Code which entered into force in 1.1.2008 with negative points becoming negative infringement points, and it is prescribed that the points set by 31.12.2007 may be taken to impose safeguards under the law of violation, i.e. the Road Safety Act. By accepting this amendment, they would be deleted, or forgiven, by the points of drivers who collected them by 1.1.2008 which would not contribute to the safety of traffic on the roads, in fact being amnesty of the offenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10218	On behalf of the board, Mr...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10219	I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10220	He's withdrawing the amendment. This one's been withdrawn. 36, Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10221	The government does not accept the amendment because this area is covered by the proposal for an amendment from the Government of the Republic of Croatia that we have just adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10222	Mr. Chairman of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10223	It's been consummated with that first retreat.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10224	Thank you very much. And 37, the SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10225	The government doesn't accept the amendment. Explanation as well as amendment 26.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10226	Thank you. On behalf of the club, Mr. Boris Sprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10227	Your Honor, thank you very much. Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, the amendment where I, on behalf of the SDP Club, proposed that safe driving and safe driving centres start to apply 1.1.2013. I'm with you now, so let's keep this in question. How come the Home Office doesn't know how to write that program until now, half a year ago, so I thought the next four would be able to write it, that program. If they don't know, I'll write to them and let them sign it. And secondly, I thought Mr. Roncevic was a good manager because he showed it at the Ministry of Defence, and how then he couldn't arrange to build three centres of safe driving in this country, but one was made for the next four years. That's my question and thank you very much. I am saddened that the amendments of the SDP and some other amendments, distinguished colleagues who have submitted especially to 0.0 have not been accepted because the non-acceptance of these amendments will be much more severe in the consequences of traffic and will be more injured, and unfortunately the dead. I'm so sorry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10228	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority and good wishes and Mr. Sprem's offer would be good to accept, so here, maybe the ministry needed a little bit with the gentleman, obviously he showed good knowledge of this matter. Thank you very much. Now, please, let's get involved and vote on the final bill. Let's get involved and vote. Thank you. The result? The law was passed by most votes, 77 for, nothing abstentions and 45 against. Thank you very much. The Legislative Committee proposed to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion. The professional service of the Croatian Parliament is hereby authorised to conduct an editorial of the text of this law before its publication in "The People's Journal". Please include and vote on this proposal for a conclusion of the Legislative Committee. Let's vote, go ahead. The result? This conclusion was accepted by most votes, 96 for, 7 abstentions and 16 against. The club of representatives of HSLS and HSU proposed the next conclusion to the Croatian Parliament. The Ministry of Interior undertakes to submit a report to the Croatian Parliament within 120 days on the implementation of the national road safety programme in the Republic of Croatia for 2007. Compared to previous years, for the purpose of conducting a comprehensive debate in the Croatian Parliament on all important elements affecting the level of road safety. What does the government think about that?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10229	The government does not accept this proposal because it is a national road safety programme in the Republic of Croatia that brings the Government of the Republic of Croatia for a period of 5 years and cannot deliver reports to the Croatian Parliament on the implementation of this national programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10230	Thank you. I'm giving this conclusion to the vote. Please, let's get on with it. Who's against, abstention? Let's get involved, let's vote. The result? This conclusion was not accepted. It's 52, 1 abstention and 69 v. The SDP representative club proposed the next conclusion to the Croatian Parliament. It is up to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to submit a report to the Croatian Parliament once a year on the implementation of the National Road Traffic Safety Programme of the Republic of Croatia. Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10231	Although the government disagrees with part of the reasoning of this conclusion because it needs to be observed in the context of statistical indicators, the government accepts the conclusion that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is tasked with delivering a report to the Croatian Parliament once a year on the implementation of the national programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-27-0.u10232	Let's please get involved and vote on this proposal that the Government accepts. The result? This conclusion was accepted by most votes, 123 for and one abstention. We move to - Final proposal of the Law on Discussing Discrimination, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, P.Z.E. No. 74 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the Rules of Procedure, an emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, the Committee on Law, the Committee on Defence, the Committee on Gender Equality. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Gender Equality, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. Does the applicant wish to further explain? Yeah. Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
