ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13626	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. In front of you as part of the proposal of the Law in the public procurement system is in the first reading draft Proposal for a Law on Public-private Partnership, followed by the amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act, and yesterday I think you had opportunities in the plenary session to discuss and the Law on concessions. Three laws of very inseparable matter to each other. Principles, procedures and legal protection identical to all three laws. The second law you are discussing today is a draft proposal for a Law on Public-private Partnership. This law is marked as P.Z.E. harmonising with the acquis. However, legal gains in the classic sense in which we are used to the proposals of the law appearing in the Assembly, i.e. guidelines or regulations in this case when there is no public-private partnership. What is a public-private partnership through a series of legal gains? Either the public procurement contract, in particular always works or a combination of works and services, or on the other hand, it is a concession model, i.e. the concession form of a public-private partnership. In the third segments, private and public partnerships are dedicated to companies as a form of a company in which two partners invest their investments in order to achieve and share profits, i.e. benefits. What exactly did we want with the Public-private Partnership Act? On the one hand, to withdraw the principles of the Public Procurement Act and to stress that the private partner is not on, I dare say in obscenities, on the one hand, is already on the basis of a public tender, through all available public tender on the basis of concrete documentation, based on and previously assessed risks, i.e. the fiscal effects of this project that can be extended over the next 20 years. On the other hand, we want to explain to the public partner who he was, the central state or the local self-government unit, when he decides, that is, when the need to realise his investments is right through one of the public-private partnerships models. The public-private partnership model will be further elaborated in the form of specific rights and obligations that are characteristic, specific to each of the three models, and within them for each contractual relationship in which the two partners enter into, sublegal specific acts. What we are in addition to defining the hodogram, to which the investor on the one hand, who, on the other hand, appeared and expressed his need, or his own interest in investment, was, in fact, the intention of this law. For example, shortly before the tender procedure itself, we want the future Public-private Partnership Agency, which will be recognised as a professional and implementing agency and which will be its own, not to say the stop shop, but definitely the only address in the technical and professional sense of that word through which the contracting authority, i.e. the public partner as well as the private partner, wants the Public-private Partnership Agency on the one hand or to show the need for investment, because at that moment the budgetary obligor has an interest, but has a lack of funds available or, on the other hand, that the Public-private Partnership Agency is indicated by a private investor who, with a naturally adequate financial structure, is interested in investing in contractual relations with a public partner, just by the public-private partnership model. What will the future agency do? The future agency will seek a statement from the Ministry of Economy on the consistency of the project proposal with investment strategies which are also being prepared for a public-private partnership in the Government of the Republic of Croatia at the beginning stage and the opinion of the Ministry of Finance as regards the fiscal assessment of the project itself. Depending on what is the subject of the project, the public-private partnership agency will also sue the opinion, i.e. an indication of the RES. So, for example, if it is a model of a public-private partnership to build a tourist capacity, the opinion will, of course, be asked of the tourism ministry. If it is a sports hall on the other hand, the opinion of the competent Ministry of Science, Education and Sports will be sought. Of course, the RES must make their point regarding the compliance relationship of the project proposal with the strategic objectives of the sectors for which they are in charge. If all the preconditions are met, the Public-private Partnership Agency will do two things. It will determine whether a project can be called a public-private partnership at all, and in this way we will also cut down on the negative practice that so far we have positive PPP practices in Croatia, but we also have indicators that various projects that are not actually a public private partnership under the seal of the PPP and using the fact that it is not so present in Croatia, so they may not be able to ask the right questions that under the PPP's glass are actually run by the most ordinary investment projects or joint investments, while in the long term the budgetary debtor and residents in the area of a specific unit of local self-government, and that in fact, some of the final benefits for the budgetary bond cannot actually speak. If, on the one hand, it is estimated that this is a public private partnership project, on the other hand, the best proposed project is the model of a public private partnership, the future Public Private Partnership Agency, in its own way, will stamp the project and thus start its life as a public private partnership project. The public body, an interested investment body through some of the forms of PPP, will then start and, in cooperation with the PPP Agency, produce tender documentation. The tendering documentation which will be the basis for a public tender in which a private partner will be sought again in the second phase goes to the Ministry of Finance's assessment of the higher level of budgetary risks and higher levels of risk of evaluable rights and obligations of future partners because those initial references from the beginning of this story and from the beginning of this hodogram ultimately after all assessments, after the evaluation, after the preparation of the tender documentation values can be changed. Therefore, the initial opinion of the Ministry of Finance at a value may deviate as well as in the amount of risk may give rise to a higher change which occurred several months later when the project received very specific contours. If all the findings are positive, if the Ministry of Finance estimates that the budgetary is at risk in line with the business future contractual relationship in which it enters in accordance with market trends, the Public Private Partnership Agency will approve the start of the procurement procedure as regards that project according to a particular public private partnership model. I repeat, either it will be a classic public contract or maybe it will be one of the PPP concession models, or it will go to the establishment of a special purpose society I say regarding the specificity of the business relationship that two future partners are entering into. So far, we have had only guidelines on public private partnership in force over the past few years, we made guidelines a few years ago modelling Slovakia specifically, which, as we did, started first with guidelines allowing the market and to recognize what JPP is and to develop and we ourselves then wanted to test but also to gather additional knowledge about the very concept of public private partnership and defining mutual rights and obligations. It is time after and a series of JPP projects that have been launched in the meantime, time has shown that the moment has certainly come for a little stronger normation of the concept of a public private partnership which is not a new legal concept. It does not actually exist as a legal concept because it is a cap for existing and already recognizable contracts or mandatory or commercial law. However, to encourage, on the one hand, the positive blooming of PPP in Croatia but also to some very negative phenomena and re-indebts and entry into projects that are not actually PPP projects and also acquired knowledge, accumulated knowledge in the last two, three years, we have estimated that the right time has come for us to standardise this area with a special law. Today we are in the first reading here with the proposal for a law on public private partnership which is also discussed with the private sector, with entrepreneurs. He is since it is about first reading in some way and living document. We continue to conduct consultations until the second reading, carry out consultations with Member States that have similar laws in force, continue consultations with the European Commission, we want to achieve maximum synchronisation with the Law on Public Procurement and the Law on concessions. But what we're not going to try for anyway, we're not going to try to break this law. However, we want to free him from burdensome norms and perhaps, for some time, return here to the assembly and with amendments and additions, but only by listening to the practice that will be developed under this law and sublegal acts. Here, thank you for your attention. I also thank the discussions held on individual committees in order to improve the existing text in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13627	Thank you very much. We have one correction, Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13628	Thank you, Mr. President. Ms. State Secretary, who has already been affirmed in this Croatian Assembly, with her remarks to the independent representative Lesar that he had no experience in his preliminary presentation, pointed out among other things that this law would break the practice of seeking a partner in a public private partnership to so on. Insecure places. Since it is common knowledge of all the jobs and all the shops that are being negotiated in obscenities, therefore in places in darkness and I suppose the public is one general, so a general assessment that criminalises past procedures and public procurement projects, pardons the public private partnership. It seems unfair to me, because if it were true then it turns out that all that was done in cooperation with state institutions, including according to guidelines adopted by the Government at the recommendation of the Parliament or the regulation adopted by the Government, turns out to have been a criminal act so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13629	This was a correction of the Secretary of State's opinion. I'm opening a debate. Does the committee reporter have a maybe? Please, any of the representatives of the board who want to take a word for it? There isn't. I'm opening a debate. And the first is on behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr Tomislav Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13630	Thank you very much. Mr. President, honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community club will support the adoption of the Law on Public-private Partnership. This legislation harmonizes the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union but also addresses the model of public-private partnership in the Republic of Croatia in a way that has not been directly regulated so far. In the realisation of a public-private partnership that appears in Croatia in the mid-90s, different sectoral laws were applied and as the only complete document aimed at a public and private partner of the guidelines for the application of agreed forms of public-private partnership published by the Government of the Republic of Croatia after the debate was held in the Croatian Parliament. Guidelines regulate the realization of only one form of public-private partnership, a private financial initiative, and since there are other models of public-private partnership, it was necessary to regulate this area legally in order to make public-private partnership projects simpler and more efficient. Since public-private partnerships large infrastructure and other projects such as schools, hospitals, municipal infrastructure facilities, transport infrastructures where there is often no direct economic justification or profitability but which relieve the state budget and budgets of units of local and regional self-government, there is a public interest in dynamics and a more successful realization of the public-private partnership process that is not possible without clearly and precisely defined legal frameworks. The proposal for a law precisely regulates relations between the public and private partners, the necessary procedure in the realisation of the public-private partnership, and what is certainly particularly significant transparency throughout the process, given that an interested private partner for the implementation of the PPP project is chosen in accordance with the rules governing the area of public procurement. What is good is that the law prescribes the compulsory establishment of a public-private partnership agency as a central part for making public-private partnership more efficient. The Agency will be responsible for monitoring the application of this law, proposing improvement in the public-private partnership model and organising education and training of participants in the preparation and implementation of public-private partnership projects. The adoption of this law, which is adopted in parallel with the Law on concessions and the Public Procurement Act, creates the necessary legal assumptions for the more successful implementation of the public-private partnership model and for the transparency of the whole process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13631	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13632	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. We are today discussing the Law on Public-private Partnership, a law that is part of the harmonisation of our legislation with the acquis of the European Union for 2008. And we are discussing a law that, with two other important laws that we are discussing at this plenary session, which is the Law on concessions and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement, together with them makes a sort of whole. They are closely interconnected, coordinated and, in any case, rare, but in Croatia, we welcome the first reading, regardless of the name of European, because we believe that the basis of these laws creates a space for more quality use of many potentials and the possibility of a significant positive impact in building up, above all, public needs for the public-private partnership model. Public-private partnerships are realised as a rule infrastructure and all other projects that ensure public need from public authorities' competences, which are: schools, hospitals, sports facilities, kindergartens and the like. The application of this model is not commercially motivated but such facilities are necessary because they represent a public need to ensure the public functions of each regulated state. The application of the public-private partnership model started in the mid-90s and was regulated through the Law on Spatial Planning, the Law on concessions and the Law on the Communist Economy. The only thing we have today in this segment is guidelines for applying the contractual forms of public-private partnership that we adopted in this House in 2006. Guidelines for applying contractual forms of public-private partnership have enabled and allow for different interpretations unfortunately, the possibilities of different interpretations often often take place in the daily-political needs, and these days we are aware, present and heard on the example of the Varazdin County primarily because space is either not understood or not understood or something which is one of the fundamental guidelines is interpreted or arbitraryly drawn conclusions and since in this country, unfortunately for its own words and actions, no one still responds, and then such anomalies are possible and therefore it is good to talk today about a law that will regulate a public-private partnership and that something that is normally normal in the world because I need to remind this Parliament that the German Law on Public-private Partnership has only 6 articles together with transitional and final provisions, and ours has 38, and I'm afraid that this will be too little. Construction according to the public-private partnership model gives a whole series of advantages already mentioned in the above guidelines, and now the Public-private Partnership Act, which are of paramount importance to each responsible country, and it is no coincidence that almost all European countries benefit from that advantage. We in Varazdin County have seen the potential of a public-private partnership and projects financed by this model are exclusively, I repeat only schools and sports halls and at this point it is 44 buildings or better said at this point, and recently in this House we discussed guidelines on primary and secondary education. At this point, the only Varazdin County has created conditions for one-way teaching. For all schools of more than 200 pupils, the Varazdin County is known to have been fully funded for all schools of more than 200 pupils and sports halls, and it has been known that for three years now, the only people in Varazdin County have been fully funded along with municipalities and cities, fully funded by the transportation of children to high school and has been repeated for all four classes for three years. It was the commitment of the Varazdin County three years ago. We said that's where we're going, and the potentials we have in that direction will be directed. In particular, it should be stressed that the importance of a public-private partnership for the Republic of Croatia goes beyond the usual advantages seen in other European countries due to the strategic decision of this, today's Government on the reduction of deficits. In fact, it is ignored that it is not a key question whether the deficit is yes or no, because it is only one of the instruments of financial policy, one of the financial policy tools is already crucial whether the consumption deficit or as a driver of development is used. The best positive example as a driver of development was the construction of the highway in the term of the coalition government. For the past five years, the current government has made itself defensive not realizing that a country whose level of industrial agricultural production is insufficient, only slightly above half of the one of the 1990s, while failing to make optimal use of its development potential, is directly jeopardising its future regardless of formal and financial stabilisation. That's why this model is crucial to the development of the country at the moment. A model that drives key development factors, education, infrastructure, health care, while also driving the economy. In particular, it should be stressed that it does not burden the state either in terms of the burden on the budget or as a risk. And it is clear that the complexity of such a model requires a high ability of public administration, a long-term and serious preparation through all phases of the project on all the elements that make up the project. And the key in this whole story is the ability and knowledge of responsible people in public administration to understand the context in which this model is applied, because it differs greatly from the context in all other European countries. In this regard, this law is detailed in this area, with the activities already mentioned in the implementation of the project. It is proposed to establish a public-private partnership agency and its competence in the process, forms of a public-private partnership and the like. Although this bill has a European wise decision that such an important law on the economic development of the country is not rushed at all costs, because the debate in two readings we hope to give space to quality remarks, and I believe that these quality examples will also be incorporated into the final version of the law. The Commission notes that the measures provided for in One of the concrete remarks concerns the adoption of implementing rules under this law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. My question is, who's doing what now? Agency or government? I think it would be logical for the agency to suggest that it is in the law and that the government bring it in. I also particularly stress the problem of deadlines, which are defined in Articles 12, 13 and 14, which relate to the proposal and approval of public-private partnership projects that are definitely too long 90, 30, 60 days and it turns out that the whole procedure is unnecessarily selected and such solutions will literally kill the meaning of a public-private partnership because the preparatory work will be drawn up for a minimum of one year. I think the agency should have a professional body function, and it shouldn't become a slow bureaucratic mechanism. Furthermore, in our guidelines on public-private partnership, we spoke, although this is not the issue of this law, but the problem remains, and this is the problem of regulating double taxation that arises when paying rent and whose solution is the competent Ministry of Finance. Whether the Ministry of Finance will address the problem when we talk about a public-private partnership, public-private partnership models. Secondly, the public partner's takeover raises the question of paying taxes on real estate or land that should again be regulated by the IRS. Finally, it is necessary to consider the possibility of setting up long-term funds to support the public partner in financing public-private partnerships projects. I think it's extremely important to take special care of the potential of our units of local and regional administrations, not to mention high centralised and everything else we've had these days, which was also an observation of what we've talked about in many legislative proposals, and where the problem is the same again. Our municipalities, our cities, our counties have no potential in their incomes, and especially when something happened to them that happened to Varazdin County when we left, we designed a model of public-private partnership, met the Government of the Republic of Croatia specifically Prime Minister Sanader and Resolute Minister since we went to school, to the school facilities of Minister Primorac, who accepted the whole project even in the first talks confirmed the government's participation with 20% in all facilities. However, when it was realised that 20% had disappeared. We have in our guidelines that the possibility of borrowing is 35% on the income of units of local regional administration. Guidelines were adopted in the autumn of 2006, in the second month of 2007. The government by its regulation, the potential set out in the guidelines, in one way, decreases to the original incomes and, normally, opens up space for things to be exploited and spoken of. However, the essence of the whole story is that the public private partnership is going to a completely new system that needs to be understood. That's why we support even the procedure to regulate this problem legally, that's one thing. Secondly, in any case, we in the CNS will support this first reading, the Law on Public Private Partnership and will be eager to believe that the Government will, in a short time, respect and hopefully, be made today's comments or suggestions on this text in the first reading and that we will soon get the final version of the Law on Public Private Partnership, to the Parliament. Because, in any case, for each responsible country, the possibility of building facilities for the public need of a public private partnership model is necessary and necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13633	Thank you. It's the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13634	Your Honor, Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. When a few of us said that a public private partnership without law would turn into a big deception and that it would bring more damage in the long term than we who were in those positions were generally ridiculed. Now we see ourselves by law trying to solve this matter and we really need to settle it by law. It is true that on the board we have had this opportunity to hear that this matter is regulated by law in only 6 or 8 European countries. So many European countries don't have the law, but they have control. We'll have the law, but we'll probably lose everything unsupervised. If you've been hunting in a blur before, it's been in that public private partnership. And we're all aware of that, and that's why we need this law, and that's why we need to support the law. We saw, though, that those guidelines, or even before the guidelines, gave us a little bit of a hall - building trick. When it was realized that it avoided a regular borrowing, then it now began to resort to a normative solution to the matter. And that's certainly fine. Why? Because the guidelines we've had so far have simply not been binding, no one has been able to bring justice under quotes because of disrespect. Can't finally have one substance that can ultimately be heavy 2, 3, 5 maybe in 2, 3 years and 10 billion kunas be unsupervised and unregulated. Why? Because of the fact that a public private partnership, as a rule, wanted someone to admit it or not, I dare say in advance to a well-known builder. I'm not going to mention cities now, I'm not going to mention objects now, but that's for sure. For example, on page 1 of this Proposal for a Law on Public Private Partnership, it is literally said: "In the Republic of Croatia, the application of a public private partnership model begins in the mid-1990s with the application of the concession model of public private partnership at the time was mainly the construction of road and municipal and municipal infrastructure etc., etc.", finished quote. What road infrastructure was built by a public private partnership? The public private partnership in the mid-1990s built only one road in Croatia and it was Istrian y. It is the most expensive road in Croatia. We'd get through it even today, come on, after us, I don't know how many 10 years, 15 almost, but what's far up, what's left of that road on those stocks, we're in Istria today paying both the most expensive bridge and the most expensive tunnel. For 5200 meters through the Učka tunnel we pay 28 kuna, for 160 km, which highways, half highways that certainly have 10 km of tunnels, 10 km of these bridges from Zagreb to Rijeka or vice versa, pay 56 kuna. For 1.4 km of bridge via Mirna in Istria we pay 14 kuna, and when we go to Krk or when it goes to Krk, the islanders, but I think the people of the Primorje-Gorski County are free of that bridge. And then you really ask yourself why this is happening in Istrian spaces and how long will such practice be tolerated. I hope that the government will soon be in Istria or Istria during those trips and will simply see what I'm saying. Article 2. We can say that it is actually the essence of this law, a public private partnership in... in the sense of this law, the long-term form of cooperation between the public and private partners, where the private partner takes the risk of building, accessibility and or risk of demand, and one or more of the tasks such as financing, designing, building, maintenance, restructuring, etc., etc., [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I will once again argue that in 90% of the cases, this public private partnership has been favored by a well-known builder. Not to mention the examples, I think you're aware of that yourself. And that was the biggest flaw in these guidelines, and maybe it's going to be the biggest flaw in this law right now. Clearly, there are not many of them, many cities, many counties, etc., money for these some projects that we have listened to, which is the point of avoidance, meaning this public private partnership, why people decide on it, is the essence of avoiding that agreement on the debt issued by the competent finance minister. The local self-government thought it was cheating on the state, the state thought that the public private partnership was cheating on Brussels higher and higher than that deficit, and the truth is that once an unregulated matter of public private partnership we cheated on ourselves. I will once again say that one of the most controversial projects of this public private partnership from the mid-1990s built in Croatia is bound to Istrian y. That's true, we all know that, but since these companies are still building these facilities, the ones that finance these and those, then it's clear that they're all being tolerated. Article 11 is, in fact, the essence of this law, it literally states that a public body wishing to implement a particular project as a public-private partnership project is obliged to provide the Agency with the project proposal and the accompanying documentation provided for in the regulation referred to in Article 10. Two, the agencies assess the content of the project proposal, paragraph three, the management ministry is obliged to provide the Agency with an opinion on the compatibility of the project proposal with the public-private partnership policy adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, under four, the Ministry of Finance is obliged to provide the Agency with an opinion on the compatibility of the project proposal with budgetary projections, fiscal plans and risks as well as on the financial and fiscal sustainability of the project proposal. The competent resolution ministry, paragraph 5 and, where appropriate, other ministries and bodies of the state administration are obliged to submit to the Agency, for the purpose of assessing the draft proposal, its requested opinion on the conformity of the project proposal with proportionate strategies and plans, i.e. legal regulations, etc., etc. Now we see that the government has actually decided not to cheat on her anymore, that she simply soaps the board she's sitting on. It will now issue these consents, various regulations and so on, but one other question is raised. To whom will the Government issue these consents? I claim that it will be hers or hers in that people's house that who will, but who will, but who will, who will, but who will. Article 10 states that "The Government of the Republic of Croatia, on a proposal from the Agency, adopts a regulation on the methodology of evaluations and criteria for selecting public-private partnerships projects, establishing the procedure for assessing and selecting a public-private partnership project as well as a list of documentation to be provided with the project proposal", a final quote. So, once again, the Law on Public-private Partnership is not controversial, that law is necessary. Dispute can only be the political will that will stem from this law. I claim that in Croatia they are not so bad laws, it is bad that what follows by applying these laws, which is one bad practice, more specifically that of raising some interest by virtue of a law. Now, Article 23 and some public-private partnership agencies are being introduced here. We are giving enormous power to bureaucrats, the agency, clearly forming a government. Who's the agency gonna serve you? I claim that she will serve the rulers. The government and the coalition, that I do not now list all these parties that form it. How's that gonna work? Well, it will work, gentlemen, about as well as the budget allocation works, or as we had the opportunity to see yesterday during the 2008 budget rebalance, 90% of that budget money goes there for capital investments clearly where these parties form the ruling majority in power. So this kind of borrowing will sort of be reserved, I dare say for the parties in power. To conclude, the law is no matter what there are perhaps 4 or 5 times more provisions than the one my predecessor mentioned in Germany, still the shrub, needs to be done, it needs to avoid that one arbitraryness and, above all, arbitration. It certainly can't be good, and certainly it's one thing as fast as we are, but I won't say give up the guidelines, but we're putting them under this ad act law. I suppose from this law, we won't give up so soon, but that one arbitrary nature of a bureaucrat or minister of finance needs to be restrained. The law that is here today in front of us may in some way be a kind of pressure on local self-government and ultimately another element of division between the authorities and the opposition. The opposition will certainly and by the basis of this law call on the competent ministries to channel the funds towards those environments, or give consent to those environments they create by ruling. I think that's exactly what should be avoided, no matter what I think the law is necessary, no matter what I think the law is coming at the last minute. So, it should include some provisions so that everyone knows in advance whether and under what conditions they will be able to use that model, under allegations of "financing" through a public-private partnership. Which is worth meeting, let's say all the criteria, that you're liquid, that you're solvent, that you might have the best project for your citizens, and that on the other hand the government that is, or the team that's in power doesn't give consent and then disables in one such content that's of, I'll tell you the general good for the environment that you represent. On the other hand, the power this law will give us, let's say, the Ministry of Finance, without talking about the Budget Act that's behind us, which we're just about to vote on, is just going to be huge. I know that through various holding companies, and even a public-private partnership, things have just started to happen, and that should have been said a lot, to put an end to it, but not the way we do it, by strengthening the role of the competent ministry, and that's where I actually see the biggest problem. We have this budget law, this law is dangerous. Why? Because it won't allow the borrowing of utility companies, so it's not intended to destroy utility companies, but it can eventually happen. It is also clear that, as well as the consent through the form of a public-private partnership, this law on the budget of the borrowing form will allow only those groups forming the ruling coalition. Finally, I think, and I'm going to say that in this country one is coming, or this country is going to have a difficult period, we are now 15 or 20 days ago introducing VAT on imports, that VAT on imports is being paid within 8 days together with customs, we are destroying a very small economy, inflation destroying the standard of citizens, external debt has exceeded 36 billion euros, so we're destroying that state, the Budget Act will destroy the municipal systems and then puts a man where it leads. All in all for the end. I'm not running away from the fact that I publicly admit that this law is commendable. We're here when those guidelines were in front of the IDS Club to get rid of that matter by law. Order should be introduced, but the minister or competent finance ministry becomes a filter of every investment in Croatia whether it is local self-government, municipality, city, county or municipal enterprise, and it is certainly not good. It seems or he may in some way say becoming next to the prime minister the most powerful man in this country and so much I would pray that until the second reading simply comes out with clear criteria who, in which case will be able to compete and enter this narrow choice to exploit his own capacities and resources by public-private partnership.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13635	Thank you. Take care of the time when you speak and the lights on, because it's repeated with some MPs. It is on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, Mr. Zastavnik Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13636	Honorable President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. The SDP club supports the development of a public-private partnership in the Republic of Croatia. In addition, the SDP club, i.e. the SDP's, also initiated a part of it to regulate the public private partnership. They have examples of the best practice of public-private partnership in Croatia, and we would really like to remove this dilemma that existed yesterday or the dissonance that ruled yesterday and the day before when we discussed the Budget Law, when on the one hand we talked about the need for universal control, and as a negativity there was a public-private partnership that was something cloudy, something suspicious, something untransparent, something used to avoid regulations, laws and everything else. So first of all I think we should educate ourselves and achieve a form of consensus about what a public-private partnership is. We had a situation in 2006 when that meeting in the government took place overnight and when Prime Minister Ivo Sanader spoke of a public-private partnership as a Croatian New Deal. Then we were all summers in it, then we all stood up for it, overnight virtually approached making and writing guidelines. All political parties, relevant political parties and individuals were involved in writing these guidelines and this is the first and only document practically that was written in two terms of this government in a way that all those who have something to say or know something were invited to contribute. As a result, the proposal for a guideline was also high quality. Unfortunately, he's a bit of a derivator with some articles between the group that wrote it, the government and this Parliament, but so we had a good text. Unfortunately, between these guidelines and today, there has been another misunderstanding, and there has been some abuse, but no one is ready to look in their own backyard but is always looking at another’s backyard. So, for example, the ruling majority in this hall will now resist the Varazdin County, but at the same time forgetting that in this Varazdin County in the city of Varazdin, the same hall is done by public-private partnership, which is, for example, three times more expensive than the same hall that is done with the traditional model in the city of Osijek. So in the city of Osijek there is a hall for 170 million kuna directly from the state budget, and in the city of Varazdin there is such a hall of capacity, working for a 450 million kuna per model of public-private partnership. No one is ready to look in their yard when it comes to the Zagreb arena, which is practically overnight contracted and costing 210m euros. 210m euros costs the Zagreb arena. If they broke it on an annual annuity, i.e. on paying the rent, we could have built Zagreb instead of the arena somewhere between 50 and 60 elementary schools with 20 classrooms for one-way classes. I don't want to get into a situation here where someone accuses me of being against sports. I'm in favour of sports, and I am in favour of creating conditions for playing top-notch sports, but we also have to decide what our priorities are and what our priorities are. Now let me get back to this law. First of all, this law is said to be P.Z.E. That is to say, the harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union. We have heard that only 8 countries in Europe have made laws. The other countries either settled it in the Public Procurement Act or in the concessions Act or have guidelines. We will be the first country in Europe to have guidelines and laws, and what I am particularly concerned about is that we will also have regulations. And I suggest, since this is the first reading, the promoter, that we agree and that for the second reading we have a clear attitude. If we're going to have guidance, whether we're going to have a law or we're going to solve a story with guidelines and regulations. Because if we have guidance, then they're general and general. Our guidelines are not general and general, they also have very specific provisions in their content. If we have the law, then the law should regulate everything, or most things. We have a situation here that this law leaves room for the government to regulate too much by its regulations. On the one hand, we have very strictly defined certain things in the law that we should do, and then on the other hand we say that some other things are going to be referred to by the Government as a whole by a series of new regulations. The problem with regulations is double. First, they are not subject to public debate or debate here in the Parliament. Secondly, they have never been reached within the legal deadlines, and we also told the guidelines that, within 30 or 60 days, regulations will be adopted. Months passed until regulations were passed by the government and we today have guidelines and regulations. So today we operate on the principle of guidelines and regulations. We have an agency today, it's not independent, it's an agency within the agency to promote foreign investment. This law defines that this resolution will be made and, in that part, this law is, for example, correct as regards this definition of the role and position of the agency and, in particular, the resolution of the status of employees in that agency. It might be better to also call the Law on the Public-private Partnership Agency and to define the public-private partnership, or to supplement the guidelines then to be stronger, more strongly defined in the guidelines on public-private partnership. Or, on the other hand, if we define the story by law then let us, for example, look up to the Polish Law on Public-private Partnership which defines much more, including how many other laws apply. So in this Law on PPP in Poland, for example, this issue will be resolved, this dilemma that was mentioned here today, which is the question of double taxation or paying VAT on interest on a loan raised by a private partner. For example, the payment of VAT on municipal taxes and all other types of taxes that are included in the rent price because it is therefore said there that the provisions of the VAT Act should not be applied in such a way to contracts concluded under a public-private partnership. So, conceptually, I think we should do this law and say that if it's a public-private partnership, then we really don't need guidance except as a kind of decoration. And if the agency law is, then it needs to be more clearly defined and in any case remove this possibility for the government to do with its regulations afterwards what it did after the guidelines, which is that you have a bunch of papers to do. Now, given the public-private partnership, we have to compare this story to a traditional model. Therefore, in 2003 the European Council adopted the European Growth Initiative, where it has encouraged and promoted a public-private partnership in order to develop the infrastructure needed to strengthen potential growth and development of the European Union. Therefore, the European Union has said that long-term contracts between government institutions and non-governmental partners are supposed to strengthen potential growth in the European Union. To do that, you have to regulate a certain area, but you have to make it possible in real time. Looking at this law, but not just this law because the secretary of state said it wouldn't need any additional consent. Unfortunately, our Budget Act, which is in the debate, has prescribed that you must seek the consent of the Ministry of Finance. Our Law on the implementation of the state budget also regulates the public-private partnership. So, according to this bill of law and the laws relating to a public-private partnership, you have to ask for three consents from the agency, the agency may request three or four consents from the ministries, units of local self-government, etc. And more than that, you must at least ask for consent from the Ministry of Finance. So it's a minimum of four and plus more agencies can ask for some consent. If you add a normal course of procurement to a public-private partnership, and it lasts between 12 and 18 months in the world. Not counting on these administrative obstacles it takes you two years to start a public-private partnership project and it takes you a minimum year to complete the project. So it's almost impossible to do in one term. Now, if our goal is to encourage a public-private partnership, then it should be such that we stimulate public partners to decide on a public-private partnership compared to a traditional model anywhere where it is profitable or better. My personal experience shows for example that public-private partnerships are much better for citizens and public money, for building schools than traditional models. Now, what do you have to have when you're building a school according to a traditional model? You don't have any money, so you're raising a loan. You need to conduct a public tender for credit on which you don't have to get any consent. When you conduct a public tender and choose a bank that will lend you credit, then you're just asking for the consent of the Ministry of Finance. You get that consent and no one asks you what you're going to do with that money anymore, nor do you have to give consent to the project or the competition to build a school. Nor do you have to give a contract to build a school to anyone on consent, to the Ministry of Finance, to the Agency, I don't know who. No one asks you what's going on with that school. You just need to get consent to the loan and you need to report to the Ministry of Finance on the state of the credit. If you are building this same school on a public-private partnership, you must therefore have at least three consents from the agency plus more consent from the Ministry of Finance plus more consent from the Ministry of Education, Education and Sports, it doesn't matter now, it's about school. So, in a situation where you are faced with the need to build a school you will, of course, if you have a credit or borrowing capacity to access the traditional model. A traditional model isn't good for school because it's just building a school. The public-private partnership model is good for public money and citizens because you are not building a school, but you are contracting a 25-year service for that school, which means that the school at 3 or 5 years will not be destructive, but that school will be in the same conditions on the first day of education inside and on the last day, at the end of the 25th year there will be the same conditions in that school. And to a public-private partnership you get a fair value for public money. Public-private partnership, of course, I'm talking about who's doing the model well, who doesn't need to abuse it because any model can be abused, so whoever wants to do the public-private partnership honestly is at least for the kuna to be cheaper or better than the traditional model. It is different because you see the situation for 25 years, not just what the average Croatian politician thinks about the stone foundation and the tape to open the facility. You're looking at the situation for 25 years. It's something else entirely. You bear your responsibility and for something that will not be in your term, when you will no longer be in the position you were in when you negotiated this public-private partnership. So that's something that should certainly be encouraged, that's something that should be and that's already not regulated with us, that needs to be regulated, and we're suggested to agree whether we're going to do it by guidelines and regulations or by law. We think that, in this way, we're going to reregulated the public-private partnership, and at the same time we're not going to answer all the open questions that we have here. And what we would like also to ask the motionors for a second reading, to provide us with an analysis of the public-private partnerships so at least those from 2006 to today, and that means these few schools, these few halls...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13637	Bring the hearing to an end.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13638	Here's the conclusion. And it is our obligation not to Satanize the public-private partnership, but to rationally explain it here in the Assembly Hall, and to do indeed what Prime Minister Sanader said, rather than something that we will be ashamed of.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13639	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13640	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Snotty, I must correct you. You said the sports hall where the World Handball Championship in Varazdino will be played costing 400 million. That's not true. The varazdin sports hall, which has 20,000 squares, along with the rent, will cost 823 million. 50% of the state's funding, but 50% of the city's. At the same time or by square 9 thousand 130 kuna. At the same time, the Varazdin County made 20,000 squares of schools and sports halls that cost together with the maintenance of 363,000 kunas or per square 6 thousand 200. Therefore, it is incorrect that the Varazdin Sports Hall costs 400, it costs along with the maintenance of 823. The deal between Mayor Chehok and Prime Minister Sanader is worth 50% of each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13641	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, distinguished representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13642	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. So I believe that I will share my opinion with most of my colleagues and colleagues that this proposed law, or the proposal of the Law on Public-private Partnership, is a little late. As someone says, praiseworthy, I mean intention, but it's a little late, because I can't help thinking that this acceleration with the bill is motivated if you want handball halls in Croatia. That was one model. I can't take the impression, I can see that, of course, not everyone can agree with me, but it's said here to be very nice, necessary, and even if necessary along with this bill, to provide information and information to representatives and also to the Croatian public, which are the results of the public-private partnership's past affairs. What is this part of a public-private partnership that has been done by local and regional self-government units so far? Where are those obscenities that the secretary of state mentioned? What part of the deal was there some kind of secretive conversation? Where were the shortages? Which is why and where the negative practice is recorded, of course, we also see positive examples of which were the same here and it is doubtless a public-private partnership model of a public-private partnership, but of course depends on how it is implemented. If you have good intentions, if you protect the public interest, then you will, of course, be careful how the model of a public-private partnership on each project is implemented, followed, and ultimately this project will be taken over after 25 and 40 years, depending on the contract. When we talk about this bill, I have to say that he seems to me and overly unnecessaryly central. We're still giving too much of a role to the central state government. We give too much meaning and opportunity to decide and decide, precisely to the crucial ministries, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or the Agency. I'm asking myself why? Which is why, in one project at local level, of course, taking into account the supervision of the Ministry of Finance, existing laws that touch that about the inability of greater borrowing than other laws are prescribed, but which is why the competent ministry and the agency for the project of the unit of local self-government, which is of public need and which the executive authority in that unit adopts and considers it necessary, that it is of public interest, which is why so much procedure must be passed, here in Zagreb in the central state government. Through the agency, through the competent ministries, through the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Aside from being a major bureaucratic procedure, which is wasting a lot of time, but again we are in a position, in fact that for cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, the final word is given as people say, Dad. If the ministry containing this bill gives you the negative opinion of any ministry requested by the Agency for a specific project, the Agency will not give you a solution and approval for the implementation of the PPP project. Well, you're going to let that open up a great opportunity for these projects to be approved on the political line. So, that power or that coalition that's in power will approve projects where it thinks it's going to be politically good. Can you guarantee that it will not be as it is in the state budget, where finances are, and it is obvious to be directed where the majority's will is, which is actually regular and democratic, the will of most people directs financial resources to those parts of the Republic of Croatia for those projects where the ruling thinks they are necessary. The same will be true in the implementation of this law. And I think there is no reason other than perhaps in the case of extremely large and significant and financial or under some significant municipal infrastructure or infrastructure of significance for all of Croatia that perhaps these projects are subject to this procedure where the key decision is actually made by the government and the resolution ministries. For these projects, hall projects, school projects, health institutions projects, for example health homes. I do not see any reason for, for example, a home of health in which a unit of regional self-government enters into an investment with a private partner to seek such agreement at these levels of ministry agencies, the Government of the Republic of Croatia if that is of interest. The deal is yes, but not to have that form in such a way firmly centralized. So far in Croatia, we have been running guidelines there in public-private partnerships projects since the end of 2006. Now, we're probably going to run the law, and in any case, it's necessary that I put the guidelines out of force. You heard that a public private partnership had passed some opinion on handball halls. Let me forgive those who may be bored but I think that this issue is not resolved until the end today and it is not settled because I am convinced that the handball halls in the Republic of Croatia that are operated by the public private partnership model and that some like to call for guidelines in the public private partnership that it is precisely those of Mrs. Secretary of State that you have spoken about, that these are huge investments of several billion kunas and that it is precisely this model of public private partnership that is being built by several halls in the Republic of Croatia and that, of course, the cities where these halls are being paid for large sums, that this is exactly where the police have been wasted, and I am not necessarily surprised that despite the calls, despite the very calls of the public private partnership, the public institutions have not responded, if you want neither the police, nor the attorneyship of the state, nor the USKOK. Look at one embarrassing fact. I'll do it here again. I wonder if anyone's gonna react now. Here, a handball hall in Varazdin 800 is mentioned, irrelevant. It doesn't even matter if it's 2, 3, 4 million. Well, that's over 800 million kuna. Didn't that interest anyone, those involved in corruption or in anti-corruption programmes, by implementing an anti-corruption programme. So how can such a hall cost that much money? So how can it cost so much money 843 million kuna halls, a teaching gym in Osijek. Do you know where it was decided about, where today's consent is? The conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia gave consent to the signing of a contract for the City Hall's School Sports Hall of 843 million kunas in public private partnership. You know what happened in Osijek? In Osijek it happened only after a few months, that the Resort Ministry or the Ministry of Science after clearly what we pointed out to this nebulosis. Remember, in the media it is called Djapic's 843 million kuna model. Just a few months later a contract was signed on the construction and equipment of this hall because there was nowhere to go, the facts were speaking in themselves. The contract was signed not on 170 million, 165 million kuna with VAT. So on the one hand we had this public private partnership 843 million kuna and only a few months later that hall and the equipment of the hall cost 165 million kuna. Of course, I have to point out that there is no involvement in keeping the hall true, but let me tell the difference between 843 and 165, so that's about 700, slightly less than 700 million kuna. So you won't convince me or convince me to spend 700 million kuna for a twenty-four-year teaching gym City Hall. Well, that's impossible. And don't even convince me because I'm going to tell you that in the draft contract for the public private partnership, there was somewhere at 5 million kuna a year. That we're not talking about a story and it's a little distracting me in this bill of law. All this work, I will not enter the other models of the public private partnership in Croatia at handball halls, but this whole business in Osijek has been kept secret, secret contracts have been signed, council members of the City Council and I, as the mayor then, could not see a copy of the contract and right here it seems to be Article 7 and the law leaves the possibility to keep some things secret somewhere in the gray. I think it's completely unnecessary. Yeah, that's article 7 and that if it's some business these jobs have to be perfectly transparent, clear. There is no reason for any information on the contractual relationship to be done on the basis of the status or financial principle or model of this public private partnership, but there is no reason for any information on any contract which is therefore based on these legal provisions to be classified. I don't doubt that what you say is better than nothing. This is nothing I'm saying that I think this law is going in the direction of overcentralization and that it is unnecessary, but that legal matter should be regulated regarding public-private partnership should be regulated. We will support this proposal for a law on public-private partnership, of course expecting the comments made and the proposals and the ministry, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Croatia to be adopted. But I repeat, the public-private partnership as a model is extremely good. There can be large capital investments and facilities, but, of course, in all of this, the aim should be to protect public interest. If those who go public-private partnerships do not come from protecting public interest and work for public interest, then one project worth 10 million will continue to happen, that 200, 300 or I do not know how many kunas are charged through a public-private partnership.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13643	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations of the distinguished representative Zlatko Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13644	Mr. Vice President, I must correct my distinguished colleague, Šišljagić, and therefore my dear colleague Mršić, when they speak of Varazdin and Varazdin price. So, very clearly...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13645	Excuse me, what's the correction? You have to fix it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13646	The correction is the price mentioned and compared by the Varazdin Hall and the Osijek Hall. That's two things built by different models.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13647	But what's incorrect?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13648	It's an incorrect price that's mentioned here.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13649	So tell me what the price is.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13650	I said, there's about 840 million kuna here. The model of public-private partnership is forgotten. The city sports hall in the town of Varazdin costs 177 million kuna and for the next 25 years, the town of Varazdin has no obligations or obligations around employees, nor around energy, nor about any corrections, repairs in the hall. Therefore, do not compare if we are talking about a public-private partnership model and comparing a model that is built according to another model.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13651	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure about what?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13652	About this attempt to correct an incorrect allegation. First of all, the Rules of Procedure are broken because they can't, mine can.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13653	Excuse me, what article? What's hurt?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13654	In accordance with Article 210, Article 210, Article 11, Article 12.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13655	Let's not! Come on, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13656	Mr. Vice President, I beg you... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13657	Thank you. That's what you and others do, unfortunately, here and here. Here you go. Thank you very much. Let's move on. Thank you. [[Thank you, Mr. Vice President. And you're breaking the Rules of Procedure.]] No, I don't. We are going to an individual debate, and the word has a distinguished representative, Dragutin Lesar, but before I inform that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure expired time to report a debate of 10 minutes at 12 hours and 35 minutes. Here you are, Your Honor, Agent Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13658	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First, as far as the proposed law itself concerns the two strange things that appeared here, because two years ago, the government claimed that public-private partnership models do not require law. Now he claims he needs it. In the description of the situation and the arguments of the law, there are no cases that have arisen, which would be as evidence, which is why we are now considered to need the Law on Public-private Partnership. Are these affairs that rocked Croatia and are still tied to the construction of certain objects, and primarily sports or something else. And the second assessment of this law, that the deadlines and procedures that he foresees will not increase the interest of private capital to enter the project, because it is indeed a model selected and the deadlines are narrowly long with a large number of entities who decide, assess, give opinions, consent and licenses, so that obviously from the idea to the realization will pass at least 15 months so that something could start to build. But what I'm interested in is next. In this Parliament all these days, including in the Croatian public, the topic is the debate on the responsibilities, responsibilities of the state, local and regional self-government, banks, citizens and a large number of colleagues in the Assembly and fellow hips and scares people that Croatia is in charge, minority that we are bankrupt. Then the Government proposed the Budget Law, the new Budget Act, which I quote from this explanation “to make order, to introduce discipline and to record responsibility”, and even in this explanation of this law, it is mentioned that one motive for the state to gain insight into how many purposes and why someone was tasked below. Now I don't understand what the difference is in the obligation of a county or a city or another - state, whether it has obligations on loan or ammunition bonds or on public-private partnership. If in the next 10, 20 or 40 years he has an appointment with someone. Is the obligation of 10 million, for example 10 million per year of one county per public-private partnership less in terms of the burden on the budget than that 10 million kuna is the obligation per loan. What are the different consequences in terms of the state of the budget and the total liabilities on one basis or another. The obligation to repay money is the obligation to repay money regardless of who and how this obligation has occurred, and if all the laws we have passed so far are justified by the prevention and the desire of the central government to oversee, control, record the duties that arise from that title. When it comes to budgets, loans and these standard forms of commitment, then I really don't understand why this would be easier to pay back now just because it doesn't write 55 loans, but rather the obligation under the public-private partnership agreement, which is the same. Let's simulate that since the situation in Croatian prisons is catastrophic, capacity shortages, the state has no money, that the government decides to build prisons according to the model of public-private partnership. The privateer makes a prison, and the government commits that every year and fills the capacities that are agreed and that, agree and price per piece once, is that, and that this is an interest and private capital, that it enters the public sector together with the central state, the state solves the problem of capacity, private capital... or satisfys his own interest because for the next 40 years he'll have guaranteed full capacity, I just don't know what if crime falls, what we'll do with capacity-fulfilling [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then to nursing homes. [[Intruder: In a nursing home!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13659	No throwing, please, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13660	But I don't mind throwing Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13661	It is not foreseen by the Rules of Procedure, he is a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13662	Shame on you, buddy. Why are you throwing it at me? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13663	You can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13664	I'm kidding, okay. So, I'm sorry, you're a bit sharp today, but good. So, I don't understand it, or it's just that in those rules on budgets and finances that are due to tax revenues we created, not only in Croatia, but obviously in Europe, some solid, rigid rules that we all respect, and now we find a mouse hole how to move and create new long-term obligations without falling under the category of commitments taken over. Not 20%, not 4%, not 25%, but another model of borrowing or creating obligations like them is now not a problem. So if 40 years of obligation to enter the programme is acceptable through a public private partnership, and it is harmful in the interest of the Croatian state in the form of loans or, say, uniform bonds, then it turns out that these public private partnership obligations will be paid back by someone other than taxpayers and both will pay. Or this is about a particularly private interest in entering public-interest investments and thus actually taking over the function and primary role of the state, at national level, regional and local. And then if this is such a possible corruption and the rope that occurs, not a single BOOK, not a jump, not a National Council headed by a colleague, Jovanovic, there will be nothing they can do about it. And that is why I am not thrilled with this model, nor am I welcoming it, because I really don't understand what it does in Croatia, the expansion of investment, the involvement of private capital, but what I particularly care about is this public interest. I do not believe in the public interest, I believe in the private interest that this law declares public and nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13665	Thank you. We have one replica, the distinguished representative of Zvonimir Mršić. Now you can replicate it to him, not during the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13666	Well, then I threw it at him, I didn't replicate it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13667	And that's not supposed to happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13668	I'm sorry. So here, counterpart Lesar asked what the difference between classical borrowing and public private partnership is. There are several very important differences, first of all, so when you build a traditional model, you have to take out a loan before you even put the first shovel to the school. Your obligation to repay credit arises at the time of the signing of a loan contract, not at the time of the start of the use of the school or facility built from that loan. By contrast, you pay only a really delivered service by public private partnership. Which means that your obligation to return or pay that service occurs at the time when you can use the facility you have agreed on for a public private partnership. You take the loan and start building the facility, the company that builds the facility goes into bankruptcy, you have a obligation to repay the loan and you don't have an object. After a public private partnership, you arrange a public private partnership, a company that builds the facility goes bankrupt, you have no school or facility but you have no obligation to pay anything. Furthermore, when you build an object then you build an object and you don't know what will happen in the 10th year because the law tells you that you have a guarantee for two years on all and 10 years on constructive elements, another minute please, and constructive elements. According to the public private partnership, the quality of the service is the same, if it is smaller, you pay less, you pay the percentage of the service you contracted. If one day he's sneezing class, you won't pay rent for that class. If you've taken out a loan you'll pay that class like it's made by regulations and still have to pay for repairing the roof in that class. So the difference is huge.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13669	Thank you, thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13670	Thank you very much. So, if I'm a good colleague, Mršić, I understand the objective assessment of the success of the model, we'll be able to know in 25 years. I'll take it. So, then we'll be able to talk about whether I'm right or you're right and you've given them really quite an extensive interpretation and EPP or the private partners you have are imbeciles because if they've accepted such conditions, I don't know where they get so much money and how they came to accept such conditions because I don't know what their interest is. But when it comes to loans, you know, you can also contract the start of the credit use, and especially the start of the loan payment that doesn't have to be made by day-on-day activation, not 30 days after activation, so that the payment of the loan can start on the day the facility is completed. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13671	Don't throw it away!
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13672	The issue of interest and interest bargaining is a matter of negotiating ability, that's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13673	Thank you. Let's move on with the individual debate. Dear Representative Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13674	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a law on public private partnership clearly harmonizes our legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union. Otherwise, what is known begins somewhere in the 1990s to start applying the concession model after 2000, but also the model of private financial initiatives. This model, therefore, the Public Private Partnership Act will clearly invest in public procurement systems. It actually foresees the implementation of a public tender and the choice of a private partner. The current practice of implementing non-binding guidelines will be regulated through the Central State control system. Namely, the Public Private Partnership Agency, which is created by the singlement of the current public private partnership sector and for export and investment promotion agencies, will actually monitor the justification of selecting a public private partnership model, or for a project that is defined as such or chosen. Of course, the Ministry of Finance will also play its part and will give opinions on the financial part of the project. It also means that you will be subject to stricter control, and that is good. By introducing a public-private partnership into a public procurement system, it also means the tendency that this model of funding of public projects will not be converted into some special and does not turn into some special legal category which the public-private partnership is not actually because it appears either as a public contract covering the Public Procurement Act or as a concession to be covered by this new concession law. I think so far how well 8 European Union countries have been known to regulate a model of public-private partnership that we know has been created in the UK less than 20 years ago, and others have been left to regulate it under their national legislation. So I don't know why they're being so skeptical that we're late or not late. I mean, we might be late, right, but I don't think so. What matters certainly is that here we will probably immediately after this point discuss another point which is, these are additions to the Public Procurement Act and it is clear that these amendments and additions go as a consequence of one broad consultation with the economy and they will bring one simpler procedure and less legally prescribed conditions for the contracting authorities, which is also very, very, very important whether. Even for us in the units of local self-government when this law that we will then discuss will be very important that in local, local self-government units will be an employee who will have to find a certificate to conduct the procedure. So it's about the same thing that's going to be good and that's going to make a certain newspaper possible. What would also be important to point out is that the effects we can expect from the adoption of this law are very significant. First of all, the application of this model will clearly try to enable a maximum economic development or effects that are needed precisely because the relationship between public and private, between public and private partners, will be negotiated here in the long term. Also, what is extremely positive and will achieve a certain and sign-up step and move is that all projects in this area of public need that will be in the jurisdiction of public authorities will have to be planned within the framework of the activity itself and, as such, they will have to put the realisation planning into the framework of budgetary opportunities. It will be important to regulate the choice of a private partner under the Public Procurement Act, clear and concession law. And I think I also support what is said about education. I think it's also a very important, important category. This law will also create preconditions for opening new markets, further growth, development of the Croatian economy, its competitiveness and the like. And it should be said that Croatia has also been in an international environment for several years now, which has been recognised just after having achieved significant results in the development of this model, and this will make it clear that Croatia's engagement as partner countries in providing assistance to our neighbours will also be able to achieve positive effects. In addition to all the other positive effects that this law will produce, primarily whether the creation of a prerequisite for one is very significant and growth and development of the economy, a significant step has also been made in the evaluation that will follow, whether, after this, the European Commission is in the context of Chapter 5, which is actually being discussed. For all of these reasons, we from the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support this law because we consider it to be so effective and signifying and bringing and signifying changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13675	Thank you. Dear Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13676	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government. At first, yes, let me say that, as with previous debates, I do not think that public-private partnership or law is passed and that the whole procedure is questionable. Of course, it is one tool that is not only known in Croatia but also in all Europe and the world where it allows public partners to connect with their private partners and in some ways implement projects they could not otherwise do. First of all, the benefits are the generation of new sources of income, new infrastructure, new services for public partners, the promotion of industrial development resulting in an increase... arrival. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Better end-of-the-end guidance and better direction of public funds. What every public-private partnership should provide and why public partners also use this institute is faster infrastructure building, faster implementation, lower total cost of the overall project, better risk location of the project itself, better quality service, creating additional revenues and more efficient project management or public-private partnership content. What I can point out as a general, general objection to this law and the situation that is in Croatia today is that we have a large amount of regulations relating to a public-private partnership, as mentioned in the 2006 guidelines, we are now passing the law. And some other laws are linked to a public-private partnership. This is the Budget Act, the Budget Implementation Act. So instead of making it easier and more efficient, there are too many regulations for me to regulate, which regulate that problem. What we have as examples in Europe, someone has already pointed out only 8 countries have passed so far, so far, the law. That is why we cannot call on us to actually comply with European practice because European practice is, if we are already calling on it, that the Commission means that in January 2003, the European Commission came up with guidelines for successful public private partnerships. So at the European Commission level, there are guidelines that we, in some ways, brought to the table in 2006 where many of what is already defined in the law and today. What, where non-legislative European countries solve this problem, is about public procurement laws and concession laws. In fact, the Law on Public-private Partnership and that and the whole, the whole story relating to a public-private partnership can be reduced to public procurement and concessions. It is only a small, slightly longer period and projects that are specific but in principle we see the law also calling for the principle of selecting offers and concluding projects at the Public Procurement Act. Finally, when we look at this law, we get the impression that the formation of this agency gives a lot of authority, so someone has already mentioned who will run the agency, they will be able to approve projects and in some way determine where certain public-private partnership projects will be able to be maintained and, of course, there is always the possibility that some economic criteria or development criteria will go hand in hand and others that development will be disabled. When we talk about public-private partnership and what is happening in Croatia, I would mention several examples, perhaps some positive, some less positive that have happened. Here, first of all, there is one example, and this is now the construction of certain sports facilities where, for example, in the city of Split for the Lori hall worth 150 million euros, it must remind that the city of Split has one large hall that is not used in its function, the city of Split will pay 2.5 million kunas without VAT for 30 years per month without VAT over 30 years, so with VAT 3 million and 200 thousand kuna and that is only half of the amount. If the city had not co-financed the state, it would have amounted to 6.5 million kuna. But with these 3 and 200 thousand kunas, meaning at the level of the year about 40 million kuna, the city of Split has already used the limit that the Budget Act allows in terms of public-private partnerships, so 25% of the budget has been used by approximately 6.7%, which means that over the next 30 years, a quarter of that limit has already been used. So when we talk about a public-private partnership, we should be careful whether this project that we want to finance is necessary and whether it might have been more cost-effective to build in the city of Split instead of one such hall perhaps some 10 new schools or smaller halls where young people might be able to engage in amateur sports. On the other hand, of course there are examples, as I said where local or public partners are allowed to obtain additional income, there are examples of certain highways where partners, private partners built roads and, in some ways, paid for that investment by charging tolls and after a certain period, that investment remains a public partner. When we look at the end of this law, which I believe we will support in the House, I think it would be good not to leave another large space, that the Government, through the regulation on the work of the Agency, defines some of the things that I think are overwhelming and that it would be good if we had defined them in the law where we allow the Government to define things that are not subject to, as someone said to the public debate, but by a decision or regulation that has legal power, they could define certain things relating to a public-private partnership. Finally, the whole public-private partnership story should be supported because some projects would certainly not be able to finance and would not be profitable and would not be able to plan them within a certain short period of time without this instrument. Perhaps as an idea and government, i.e. as an incentive for certain reforms in certain sectors, public-private partnerships could be much more used, say in health care where little or no use is so far, is used mostly in terms of "out-sourcing" certain services in hospitals or what we have witnessed in the last few months a catastrophic situation in prisons, someone has mentioned that option already, but I think that public-private partnership, and this is a practice a lot in the countries of Europe in that segment can benefit. There would certainly be one, at the end of a more quality situation both in health care and in this part of the judiciary if more of this model was used. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13677	Thank you. We have one replica, distinguished representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13678	Dear Vice President, in your debate, you have mentioned too many rules to which this law, and to which it relates and which it connects, is a fact. But I will ultimately offer one solution, I'm not saying that maybe those too many rules won't be effective, maybe they will be, but the fact is that this law is tight about the Public Procurement Act and the concession law. It is also a fact that he can't do it without the Budget and Budget Law. It is also a fact that once we adopt this law, and we already have guidelines on public-private partnership, we will also have a Law on Public-private Partnership, we will also have guidelines on public-private partnership, and the law also provides for the introduction of regulations of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which are further regulated by some issues. Also, units of local self-government, meaning public entities that will go under this law into a public-private partnership will have to receive at least 4.5 different consent from the agency, from the ministries and also the agencies will ask for different consent from individual ministries based on two or three strategies, it is a policy to develop a public-private partnership that does not yet exist, it is a national development strategy that does not yet exist and based on a national regional development strategy that does not exist yet. Now, when we look at it like this on a pile, it really looks like a forest of regulations, and if those woods aren't in any way effective, we always have a solution because as soon as we get that forest of regulations and the forest of the law to write to HITRORez to lift certain regulations. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13679	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13680	Thank you very much, colleague Bernardic, for mentioning this very well, there are too many rules and regulations and laws and in some way permits.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13681	Get in, get in!
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13682	Here, I've saved myself.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13683	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13684	Here, to say it over and over again, so I agree with my colleague Bernardić that there are too many regulations, laws that regulate this area, and I think, and I hope I'm not right that this law will also destimulate certain units and the public sector to be used by this model, and I would call it maybe, this is not the HeathroRez, but a "poor" means about this kind of public-private partnership model.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13685	Thank you. And we're moving on, and our distinguished representative, Tomislav Vrdoljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13686	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretary of state, representatives of the ministry, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us a proposal for a bill of public-private partnership. For the realisation of larger capital projects such as the construction of schools, hospitals, kindergartens, homes, sports halls, cultural institutions, municipal infrastructures, large funds are needed especially when we observe it at the level of county, cities and municipalities. To secure all these assets by borrowing and direct investment by local units or central states, it is not realistic because the level of borrowing would significantly exceed the possibility of paying off loans. It is precisely because of all of this, and in order to meet the needs of the population, the countries began to enter such capital projects according to the model of public-private partnership. This trend has appeared to us both, and it has been present for many years. The aim is to move state and local units into several different capital projects in order to meet the different needs of society and with a smaller engagement of funds. A public-private partnership allows to start with several different projects, as the private partner covers most of the investments at the beginning. He does project documentation, builds, finance, maintains and manages the building, and from public partner, state, county and city, the municipality of the budget user receives a monthly fee. This fee ratio can be extremely long-term and as proposed by the law is foreseen for up to 40 years. It is therefore characteristic that projects are initially financed primarily from another source, from the private sector, and still a public partner defines the objectives of public interest, service quality and price policy and is responsible for respecting those objectives. Since this model of economic activity is very often about large and expensive infrastructure projects, the need to prescribe a clearer and more transparent choice of private partner and consultants on the part of a public partner is imposed. Therefore, the law stipulates that the choice of public partner and consultants is carried out in accordance with the rules governing the area of public procurement. On the other hand, contractual relations for public private partnership projects are complicated, and the public partner is obliged to prepare an analysis of the project before a decision is taken to implement it in order to determine the effectiveness and risk of its implementation. If this is not done well and does not sign a quality contract, the public partner can find himself in a position to lose significant funds In the last ten years, and especially after 2005, the construction of large infrastructure projects according to the public-private partnership model is increasingly represented in the context of increasingly intense economic activity in the Republic of Croatia. The increased dynamics of the application of this model have been largely affected by the prescribed constraints on the credit responsibility of budgetary users. It is therefore important to regulate, educate and monitor local units and central government bodies in matters related to a public private partnership, which is exactly what the proposal for a law on public-private partnership does. In 2006, guidelines were adopted for the application of contractual forms of public-private partnership, which in practice helped a lot, but were not binding. The law regulates this complex area. It also introduces the agency as a central body that will not only control but also educate and assist in the conclusion of public-private partnerships projects, which is for our practice in which we do not have much experience with these projects of great importance. Finally, I welcome the adoption of this law, which I will personally support, and I am convinced that the Government will adopt the implementing rules provided for in the law as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13687	Thank you. Dear Representative Joseph Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13688	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honored representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. So it is evident that the Institute of Public-private Partnership in the Croatian Society in the Economy exists much longer, even for two years there are guidelines from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or the Parliament that regulate the issue of public-private partnership. Why the law now? So it is possible to conclude with a superficial analysis that the Institute of Public-private Partnership was not used in the general interest, and then the Government and Parliament tried to protect this general interest through the Institute of Public-private Partnership through the adoption of guidelines in 2006. However, guidelines have been played out in Croatian society as it is, and now the government is making, it proposes to pass the law and all this would not be illogical, so such a goal and procedure would be logical for governments if the intention behind the law was not revealed. What's going on with this law? Construction. Just building through the Institute of Public-private Partnership. And the meaning of public-private partnership is not regulated. So where the government, state, local self-government cannot meet the needs of budget money requires a solution through the Institute of Public-private Partnership. Therefore, there is no public-private partnership in all activities, and that should be defined, which is precisely what should be defined by law because public interest must be protected through the law. So we can't do all the activities. Then we need to determine what standards are in these activities that can benefit from a public private partnership of general interest and those standards must be managed by public authorities in that institute. Therefore, the country does not exist in a classical way, so it is not only public security concerns, defences, foreign affairs and financial revenues, but also to satisfy other activities, education, health, eco-security, sustainable development, municipal services, so we should prescribe what activities the Institute of Public Private Partnership can use. We didn't do that. We left it to work according to reason because it suits the government. That suits the government. Why does it suit her? Because in law she predicted that she would decide what was good and what was not good. That is why the government proposes to establish an agency, an agency with a number of people. With more than control powers, the Agency is able to establish, evaluate and approve the project each, that is, in paragraph 2(a), so the Government will centralise the use of public-private partnership institutes and thus control the development of a region in the Republic of Croatia without established standards and criteria. And so far experience has shown us that the government has some different criteria for areas where a party or the party itself is in power in the state and even changes local power beyond, I say, election results. Such a relationship with the public-private partnership is discredited by the Institute of Public-private Partnership because it does not contribute to a better standard of citizens in those activities that must be cared for by the state or local self-government. If that were the case, each of you or of us MPs can easily determine by passing through Croatian areas, so they will see that the municipal standard or standard of activity provided by the state or local self-government is drastically different at the expense of certain parts. So Slavonci will say that Slavonia is abandoned in various areas, areas, those concerned by the state, and I will tell my experience by going through Banovina and through Lika, that in Croatia there are areas that still have no electricity connection on their house. And that is to say, in the 21st century, the fundamental concern of the state to enable the connection of electricity to every household. Worse still, I saw areas in Croatia where they don't have drinking water a few miles from their house or have no access road built. And we use a public-private partnership to raise in Zagreb either in Varazdin or in Split or in Rijeka where the task and the ability to budget is above the standards of the rest of the region, and we did not focus on the fact that we can use it as a public-private partnership to raise or even the development of all parts of the Republic of Croatia, which is our task. And this is the purpose of a public-private partnership, so as to establish the activities in which it can be achieved, for which the state or local self-government is responsible, to establish standards that need to be leveled, so that all the Republic of Croatia can be balanced, and thus before the development of an even across the Republic of Croatia is achieved, which is the interest of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And one more thing, the law, precisely because of what I'm saying, has avoided finding out because in this situation you couldn't qualify, strengthen the sale contract for Sunny Hvar as a type of public-private partnership. It's a commercial activity, there's no interest in raising in this commercial activity I don't even know what level where there's a private interest of entrepreneurs to invest, buy, raise a star for every hotel. One more thing, this Sunny Hvar is a classic abuse of a public-private partnership because it is also said here that a company has been sold through this institute. So, back to square one. Why did the Government propose the adoption of laws and the lack of principles in force in the European Union and in the countries of the European Union as a standard? So that it can control the public-private partnership institute from one centre and thus control the development of all parts of the Republic of Croatia and control local self-government. If we are to resort to already existing models that exist in European countries, then there is no reason to form a special agency when there is already a state administration or ministry or administrative organisation or agency. Of course, the elasticity of the state administration is needed when doing an international project in the field of activity where the state is interested, as we would say we want to build the railway infrastructure. There is an international consortium, that state is setting up its own agency only for this activity and for this public-private model. We did not use it, it is a further practice that shows that when we call on the European Union and aligning, we consider it a form, not a substance and not a content. So I would like to clarify here once whether calling on the European Union is a matter of copying, agreeing or harmonising. What are our interests in some area, what are the interests of the European Union? They are not always identical and can exist to each other no matter what they are different or even in a public-private partnership. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13689	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote first. Dear Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13690	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is incorrect that it should not have entered the public-private partnership system in Hvar, as the state thus defends its interest. That's completely incorrect. The other inaccuracies you said the election results changed or changed power beyond the election results. Authorities are changing on the basis of the election results of counterpart Leko. Based on the results of the election. And that's how the government changes in this case that you're talking about. ...the intruder can't be heard.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13691	Thank you. Without adjective Mršić, you will now be given a word to speak the replica, but do not throw it out of the bench. Thank you very much. Here you go. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13692	Well, I can't, colleagues Matusic... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13693	No, I don't. Not to him.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13694	You have warned your colleague Leko of the lack of this law, which is that he de facto norms what we have essentially already been normized in guidelines or regulations without doing what he is, which might be expected. So what is one of the biggest problems currently in public-private partnership? That we don't have standards to maintain public facilities. So when you go to a public-private partnership, you arrange for building and maintaining a facility for 25 years. So, for example, one school, we arrange for construction, let's say we can, we have capacities and abilities. However, it would be logical and normal for the government and the ministry to commit to define a minimum standard of maintenance of the school facility within 60 days. So, when he moves, when they grind, when the furniture changes, etc., which would be easier for the public partner to agree on those standards. Today, unfortunately, we also talk about sports halls, these that are being built for the World Cup project, also have completely different models of bargaining, the extent of maintenance and the functioning of these facilities. And it would be logical for the government to come out with its, not regulations, but its obligation to make standards for maintaining public facilities in a concession period.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13695	Replication response, distinguished representative Joseph Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13696	I did not specify my colleague so much, but in my debate, I stated that the purpose is to establish a standard of public affairs, public services, and then a list of services in which a public-private partnership can be done, before doing an analysis of the entire Croatian area of how individual areas live, which the standards have in these activities, and, depending on this, to enable a public-private partnership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13697	Thank you. This concludes the morning session of the esteemed House and continues at 15.00 hours. The first one will be Honourable representative Davor Bernardic, and then he is the honourable representative of Zlatko Horvat. Thank you. I'll see you at 3:00. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13698	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we are continuing the session and the debate on the proposal for a law on public private partnership. Mr. Representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13699	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, I am particularly honored to be able to speak in such a crowded hall, and I am actually pleased that three years ago, when the SDP proposed that the public private partnership be regulated legally, when the SDP mayors first came out with that proposal, then the prime minister somehow came out with the strategy and guidelines of the public private partnership. The government has argued that this is a Croatian new deal and in fact after three years we are finally behind the guidelines passing this one law. Anyway, I'm glad you listened to us even if it's three years late. And definitely, we will uphold this law. But that's not what I'd like to talk about today. It's just part of the segment of what I'm saying. Public private partnership, so the point of the whole story is that someone wants to put their money away from that money and make some kind of profit, the bank can get it for a certain interest, but in a public private partnership, that interest can be slightly bigger. This does not necessarily have to be cheaper neither for public entities nor for local self-government units, nor for businesses, nor for the state. If the state has a more efficient model, if there is money, if there is a way to finance projects and if it has a vision. But if there's no money and if some units don't have a vision, then the public private partnership is one of the better models. And we heard from Mršić's presentation that it's actually a good thing to get a public private partnership which you de facto all twenty-five years of the duration of the project you're entering you have secured terms like you have at the beginning. So, you no longer have to worry about maintenance like when, for example, school, hospital, garage for the sake of the state or unit of local self-government because in this way some funds that are released from the state level for the normal functioning of schools, kindergartens, educational institutions are insufficient for everything you need later. So, they're insufficient to edit classrooms, they're insufficient to maintain these spaces, and that's why in that segment this model is better. However, I must also mention here a successful model of public partnership. Public public partnership is an example between the city of Zagreb and the business company owned by Zagreb Holding, where the public company is in partnership with a city which is also a public entity financing city projects and in some ways a partnership that is cheaper in the long term for citizens. And that's good. However, the fact is that all local units are unable to resort to it or do not have strong enough companies and do not have a strong enough actually to be able to actually implement and implement all these things. I will warn there of several illogicalities in the treatment of these public companies. The first is, we were yesterday. in the discussions the other day we discussed the draft budget law which is a comprehensive law, which will now limit the duties of companies in the public sector, means up to 20% of the total income mass and will de facto be the law. This puts these companies in an unequal position. And now I'm going to tell you another argument of one of those unequal stories. In accordance with European guidelines which I respect, companies owned and owned by the State should compete for any activity in the territory of the Republic of Croatia apply the same rules of the Public Procurement Act as all other companies. And now you see you have one case where, for example, the Republic of Croatia of its company, the company owned by Apisa IT that deals with the use and manufacture of IT technologies and services cannot directly order works but must order through a public tender which is valid for all commercial entities. Okay, and in that sense they are in some way equal to all entities in the Republic of Croatia. However, on the other hand, they are not even if you public sector companies do not allow a debt of more than 20%, which doesn't necessarily have to be bad at all, because if projects that are approved for development in the game then that debt can also be greater, the main thing is that the company is solvable and that it can serve its debts well. Now, what should definitely be welcomed is the introduction of order into the model of a public private partnership, so the establishment of a contract register. I would like that register to be available as soon as possible and to be public, so that all citizens can have an insight into the register. We have passed a lot of laws this year, and under some laws there will be a lot of registers that we will have to implement, so I would say in early 2009, and I would like them all to be public or to have citizens, so everyone who wants to be informed as much about it as possible. What should also be welcomed and what is actually good is the legal definition of these two other concepts of public private partnership and these are concessions, and that is, with a contractual public private partnership, in some ways, the creation of joint companies because this has happened so far and in some ways there was no legal framework with which this could be defined. However, when I volunteered to replicate my respected colleague, Maras, about the forest rules, then I de facto and said and thought about all the things that come out of Article 11 as provisions of Article 10 and Article 11. So, with this law, the government will adopt a special regulation. So we have guidelines, we have this law when we vote it, and then the government will adopt a special regulation on the criteria for selecting public private partnership projects, which can include certain elements. I agree that it's in one element more efficient but it can also be discreet, so the criterion of discretion can be much greater. What's in some way so I'm going to say inappropriate, the more difficult circumstances are all of these previous consents that the agency requires from the resolution ministries. So, specifically what I mentioned is that the ministry is responsible for the economy is obliged to provide the Agency with an opinion on its request on the compatibility of project proposals with the policy of public private partnership development. I now have to address the question when this policy of public private partnership development will be in the process at all, since it does not exist, when this policy will develop a public-private partnership and at all find itself in the process since it does not exist. When will this policy develop a public-private partnership and will it be consulted with local self-government units? Well, I guess they have the right to set priorities in their regional development. I'd like it to be that way because here and two months ago, we voted on a charter on local self-government where every law and every decision regarding the local self-government units consults the same one so they wouldn't have laws that weren't consulted with them. The next thing is that, where appropriate, the competent resolution ministry should deliver an opinion on its request on the compatibility of the project proposal with development strategies and an opinion on the coherence of the project with the national development strategy. Same question. So there's no national development strategy yet. When it will be found here on our benches and will it be done in accordance with the i.e. in consultation with local self-government units because we think it's necessary. Unfortunately, what I wouldn't like to see happen, I don't know, I don't think it's going to happen, because if units of local self-government set their priorities because no one better than the people on the ground knows what the priorities of their end are. When requested by the Agency for the Implementation of the Public-private Partnership, some criteria in some way shall be adopted in this forest of consent and various approvals. some consents do not pass or pass. That is not what I would like to do if the Ministry of Finance as the only relevant Ministry of fiscal readiness of a specific public entity to bear the appropriate burden to give a positive answer. So what does it mean if the Ministry of Finance gives a positive answer and a different ministry responsible for specificity says it cannot be done because it is not in our policy to develop a public-private partnership, or it is not in our developmental national policy. If it isn't then put it into development-national politics, right? I wouldn't want it to be an obstacle. So from all this I said we support and it's good that this proposal actually came in some way and that was what we suggested two and three years ago but I say by respecting all of my concerns, respecting these questions I'd like you to answer me in the second reading might also specify the proposal because here as it says in Article 11, now I have to end up apostropheing it, is that to the agency to submit an opinion on its request. So the agency, you told your state secretary's colleagues that the agency would have to ask for an opinion but it doesn't say explicitly that it does, does it? So I'd like that provision to be a little more determined.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13700	Thank you very much. Now there will be a replica of Mrs. Tatjana Šimac-Bonacic, so you will respond to the replica...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13701	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. State Secretary. You mentioned your colleague just before and the forest regulations and the public of the public-private partnership model. In this forest, regulations are likely to have lost our city's eyes in Dubrovnik, apparently, lost the bus in trying to solve the infrastructure problems that plague the city of Dubrovnik, especially transport, and in particular, traffic in peace. So then, according to the public-private partnership model, they actually made a partnership with a private company, with a core capital of 20 thousand kuna. And they still called it a secret. Of course, this is a public-private partnership that I once said went into a secret private partnership, and when it was discovered that it was actually seen that the city had invested 20 thousand squares of very valuable land on which the garage was essentially built as a pawn to a loan of almost EUR 13 million, million. So when we look at whether it's going down investors' hair, is it because of the ignorance, however, we're not going to learn anything today about public-private partnership. And I'd also like to ask Mrs. Secretary of State to tell which model does this public-private partnership belong to? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13702	Thank you. Reply to the replica Mr. Representative Davor Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13703	Thank you, fellow Shimac Bonacci. Well, here's precisely why cases like this might be of some kind of non-transparent private partnership, a public-private partnership. the secret private partnership would not become an ever-increasing practice I support the adoption of this law and as soon as possible in the publication of the register of public-private partnerships so that all citizens, all interested people, may know what this is about. So it's not a secret private partnership, it's just to be public.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13704	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zlatko Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13705	Mr. Vice-President, Madam Secretary of State has said a lot since the first reading is today and that the Proposer will have something to install in the draft law for a second reading. I want first of all to say that I believe that the passing of this law is really necessary and we are who we are... We know how much we lacked a precise law and how many guidelines, as it says in the explanation, can be or must be, do not have to abide, so it certainly created certain difficulties. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I also think that such a law that actually tightens the conditions and further complicates the whole process, which centralises the whole process that will not help make things clear in practice and that private investors and private partners with their money become involved in these programmes. Simply put, at the shortest, Madam Secretary of State, I believe that this bill is generalized and that you have provided too many things to be resolved by the regulation. I think we should, that more things should be settled by law because the regulation is passed by the Government, and then a lot of things will go past Parliament and we won't be able to discuss or influence them. So you should think a little more about the law itself predicting something that is still too general for now. It was a matter of speaking here about deadlines, and I'm really joining that debate because when you're looking at articles 11, 12, 13 and 14, you have 90 days here and 60 days and then 30 days of this, then you add public procurement to it all together, and you add a negotiation procedure to that. I'm telling you all about it because we specifically here in Varazdin have carried out this procedure very transparently and therefore I reject some of the remarks that were made during this debate and mentioned a sports hall in the city of Varazdin which I really don't think has any understanding, that it does not differ from the lising or credit. And we've conducted this procedure very transparently. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Sport and the Ministry of Construction also participated in the commission. So we put a contract in front of city councilmen. There are no secrets. I'm surprised to hear here that some, in some areas, such contracts were classified. So, I simply find it inadmissible, and therefore you should be careful that something must be done with those deadlines that are here, because I'm afraid that with these fair conditions we will reject private partners. And... I don't want to say it again, but I'd just like one interpretation of you as a promoter. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, you have here in Article 23, point (c) says: “The Agency is conducting expert supervision in the implementation of the PPP projects. ” I don't know how the agency can carry out expert supervision, because if it was meant to be a private partner building up, of course, that he has his own professional supervision within the entire project so that we, I don't know if it's something vaguely written or even more private partners wanted to limit it. So I ask you to explain this section in Article 23 a little bit what this expert supervision means in the implementation of public-private partnership projects. Otherwise, I join all those who have backed the law. I will support him and I think he is welcome, but with all these remarks that are made here today, above all within deadlines and above all in centralization that will not contribute to that law being an improvement in relation to the guidelines. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13706	Thank you. Mr. Representative Angelko Mihalić. Here you go. He's gone. Mr. Representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13707	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So I in this law, specifically in a public-private partnership, see nothing special new. Far from being a new deal announced in 2005. However, if we go back to 2005 mentioning a new deal, it was indeed something new. So, for our concepts something new, but in some ways it was dealing with here's certain possibilities of money building in quite a suspicious way, and that's what the experience has shown. One year later or something more, guidelines were passed, and I guess I'm seeing everything that the public-private partnership brought and that didn't go in that direction to society, to contribute to society with projects, with needs, but to do very foggy jobs. Honor the exceptions. I mentioned the halls, so I'm not going to elaborate that anymore. I believe that if the representatives of the government sit there and this happens once, two, three times in this House of Commons, that the least I, as an agent, can expect those who are sitting in the executive authority to be interested in this business and that they will deny me. Because if I say it's a procedure, we don't have anything special new in this law. So the Public Procurement Act was valid, the Company Act, contractual relations when they were concluded between public and private partnerships. These contractual relationships can be different, really different. But once they agree, when the contract is signed, then that contract must be respected until the end. It is true that even in the construction of the school, we will not have the same contractual relations, the same rights and obligations. Somewhere these classrooms will be followed twice a day, floors, and somewhere, not once. Therefore, the price depends on it. Where there is in some way that maintenance will be at some higher level clearly that the price will also be higher. What I can hardly accept is this very agency that has too many powers. I mean needlessly excessive decision-making powers. The agency will stifle the initiative of units of local and regional self-government, and right in cities, in municipalities, in counties, so they know what they need, which are priorities. And we're coming to the point that now that we're talking about public-private partnership, the agency is the center of power. Of course, it's not the agency that's likely to make their own decisions. We certainly saw that the agency was obliged to consult certain ministries. But the fact is that projects will be decided to a significant extent by political will and political decision. Or should we ask this question if the Peljesac bridge could be built through this model of public-private partnership? What would the agency's priority be? For example, is the bridge on Peljesac or perhaps irrigation in Slavonia and Baranja? How about that now? We have seen that the current policy is very prone to the beginning of the work on Peljesac as soon as possible. But we have also seen that irrigation in Slavonia and Baranja although it is being talked about, I don't know how long it's been here for almost two mandates that political will is not such that this project is really starting, and it's finished. Furthermore, I don't think this is some kind of law, that this is not a law that is in line with the legislation and the acquis of the European Union. We've heard that 8 countries have this problem regulated. We also heard suggestions in the debate so far. It would be very good if this bill were not so much in part of the public-private partnership projects so centralised, that this agency did not have so much power to decide on a public-private partnership model and that the part was largely left to the units of local, or regional self-government. Oversight yes, but here is the public-private partnership agency so set up that, in fact, the agency will, by the political will of the majority, or those who act as executive authorities, make decisions that the project of a particular unit of local self-government can pass and which project cannot pass. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13708	Thank you. It's your turn now. Five minutes of debate. Mr. Representative Vladimir Šišljagic, on behalf of the HDSSB Club. Here you go. Five minutes of debate, you have it now.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13709	Thank you very much. Here, colleagues and colleagues in view of the situation and since we are masters in playing various laws as well as experience says, it was necessary to regulate a public-private partnership. We will support the bill's proposal, therefore, in the first reading, but expecting that all the comments made and the good proposals to be accepted should be incorporated into the Final Proposal of the Law on Public-private Partnership. In doing so, I think that it is certainly necessary to think carefully and to respect that observation that the agency has too much power to decide. Here, I hope this remark is appreciated. Also, notice on long deadlines, too long deadlines for the adoption of a solution issued by the Agency in accordance with the draft of this law. Then also in the part of double taxation, especially those taxation on real estate tax after the public-private partnership agreement expires, whether it is 25, 30 or up to 40 years. Finally, the promoter will probably propose that guidelines in a public-private partnership be put out of force and what they really should not be, and that should not be a problem to do and put on the benches of representatives of the Croatian Parliament is an analysis of the activities that have been done so far, in public-private partnerships that are likely to be completed or are still ongoing in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13710	Thank you. For the HNS club, Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13711	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the debate on the basis of the Law on Public Private Partnership that when you don't understand something, you don't understand something, and plus you need to use the story for daily political purposes, then about the discussion is going on the way it's been developing. Thieves steal, have a private interest, have this, have that, that now I don't list all those and adjectives and epithets and everything we've had and the opportunities to hear today and at the debate and these days through the press. The fact is that a public private partnership, something that has been functioning in regulated countries for many years, the fact that, in Germany, it is prescribed, by law that school facilities are built exclusively according to the public private partnership model, exclusively according to the public-private partnership model. And the fact that this model simply requires, the very complexity of this model requires one high ability and public administration and one long-term and serious preparation of people, especially the people who enter this project and later this project itself. Our experience from Varazdin County when we left, and we only had two variants, we said, when we took over, we have three programs for the Varazdin County. The first is education, the second is education and the third is education, not to elaborate now why and why, you know it more or less. One of the preconditions is school facilities, conditions where and how and how it can be done. And we have come to understand that as much as in the budget otherwise, the county budget intended for funding, for funding to express myself in the way of this infrastructure, we have 25 years to collect it. You can't borrow for famous reasons, 25 years of collecting, and then let's do it. Or to include a private partner, so with those money that is normally provided on an annual basis, cover or pay that service and after 25 years it enters that property. The whole story, and this was also discussed today, the whole story of preparation, the whole model, and in particular the contract that has about 320 pages of us in Varazdin County was prepared by the state institute, the Croatian Institute for Bridges and Construction, which is 100% owned by this country. It's a complete contract. We, when we set out to do so, formed from parties that are participating power in the county assembly, a commission to follow the sacrament. Unfortunately, some parties now in power did not appear at those meetings organised in terms of monitoring the entire project. Probably out of ignorance, because the new matter that needs to be understood, which needs to be known, and what needs to be said clearly, is no shame to know anything, but that's why he's wondering. And probably for some other reasons. Therefore, nothing happened by chance in Varazdin County and certainly, certainly that we were not private partners who entered the project but were collected in accordance with the law in a way that did not use the word used today in the introduction of the State Secretary. And one more thing that I have to say in the end, which is when there was a change of government in the Varazdin County we asked that the County Assembly's decision be made, that the County Assembly be declared, that given the irregularities present in the public private partnership to be called by both USKOK and the State's Attorney's Office, the current rulings rejected it. So it's all clear and clear. Therefore, our proposal is that in a relatively short time, because the project is extremely important for this country to prepare another reading in a relatively short time, to clarify that agency, to define the function of the agency, whether it is an operational body or a slow bureaucratic mechanism, to bring these deadlines together one, to give one possibility to the reality of the implementation of the project, and then to have one law that will have its defined rules, rules equal to everything, and depending on the ability, depending on the skills, I believe that units of local and regional administrations will use it, and I am sure that the government must use it, not to build a hall for the world handball championship, because I don't think that this country should be said that this country should, but for those money, there could be 283 schools with sports halls for 200 students. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13712	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary Tamara Obradović Mazal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13713	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Indeed, one big thank you for, and for the discussion and for the comments and for the very good proposals and for the considerations that really give an incentive for thinking in preparation for the second reading, as well as for the need to clarify the role of the future agency, which, in fact, now operates in the Agency for the Promotion of Exports and Investments. In this regard to the debate in the closing statement, I would start from the very beginning, from the alignment. In my opening statement, I said that perhaps at least this law is about harmonisation. Why? I will repeat, because the classical aquis, the classical acquis in the form of a directive, is not in the regulation. What is the basis and the starting point of this law are the practice of members of the European Union which, at the time we were working on guidelines in the legislative sense, was in Ireland and I think Portugal or Greece, had only 3 members of the European Union, we were then making guidelines. Meanwhile, the number has risen to 8 EU Member States. There is still a binding acquis as we build into other laws in the form of a directive and there is no regulation. We have a Green Paper on PPPs and concessions, we have the results of dialogue on the subject of public-private partnership and we have those relevant provisions of the directives which apply to public procurement in the concession section. What may be the biggest point of contact other than Directives 17 and 18 is the new Directive on legal protection that we are properly applying in the section and in the surveillance segment by the state commission and in the public-private partnership because, I repeat, the procedure is a sequence of logic and application of the Public Procurement Act. Dear Representative Lesar said that we can only assess the real evaluation of the public-private partnership in Croatia after 25 years of application of this law. Actually, that's true. The first JPP project that comes out after the end of the contract will actually give effects and results, but will we wait 25 years and try not to do anything to continue working on the legislative framework and to further enable the need to have a reflection through a public-private partnership? Of course not. Let me highlight the example of Japan, which, in its legislation for a public-private partnership in the legal text, has the obligation to revise its own law on public-private partnership every 24 months. Why? Because the market is a living thing, the needs change from year to year, the need for flexibility and revision perhaps of other regulations that choke at that given moment public-private partnerships is something that Japan as a state wants to revise every two years and do not hinder a public and private partner from finding themselves, investing together, and from that they have some benefits. And that's why I said in the opening part that I wouldn't be surprised if we were to find ourselves relatively quickly again about the amendments and the addition of the Law on Public-private Partnership, but when? When the market, when the economy, when our own needs indicate that we need to intervene again in legislation. Therefore, this first bill went in a truly relaxing sense, not by pre-regulatory, not by introducing norms that would prevent us from entering contractual relations before, but to start letting go, normably regulate a public-private relationship, and by following positive or negative experiences on the ground signal in which segment of the norm we must improve, change, perhaps facilitate or further edit. In that sense, the agency will be our key centre, but it can't, but the knowledge centre and the feedback centre that will be the only one in charge of collecting these experiences from the field. We hold the agency at the centre of knowledge because we want to continue to build this profile of personnel that we currently have in the PPP sector, to be helpful, from direct technical, operational, professional assistance in the implementation of the JPP project. Of course, on the market already today, and I think someone has already mentioned that in the case of the Varazdin County they have had concrete assistance from one institute, tomorrow they will appear on the commercial basis of another agency who will want to do what to the private, which to the public partner to provide their services, for that, of course, ask for certain percentages. To begin with, we are here as an agency through the agency to provide professional project assistance in defining documentation that will tomorrow live as a concrete JPP project. However, it should also be additionally ambitious. The future public-private partnership agency can also be a catalyst for the need to finance certain projects through forms of public-private partnership. It can bring an investor to the local self-government unit or state where there is a need, where the local self-government unit has not found, i.e. it has yet to find a private partner of the relevant investor. The JPP agency may, in some ways, be "stream line" in that chain of offering its own needs, the needs expressed by units of local self-government, regional self-government or state and offer a catalogue of current investment needs, and a private partner, if it is of course a prominent desire to see where his particular business interest lies. He's not here for humanitarian reasons, he's exclusively guided, of course, by profit. As intended, it is not intentional to set priorities, but to follow priorities. The local self-government unit will determine what the priority is, the state will determine what its priority is and what needs it cannot finance with its own resources. Cheapest project is the one you finance with your own resources if you have money. What happens if there's no money? Whether you're going to enter a loan, but then you're only taking your own risk, or you're going to go into JPP and share that risk with someone. Who will advise you at that time? We intend to have an agency that will also be our advisory body. That led us into the design of the agency. Ireland's Public Private Partnership Agency, which was appointed as a development agency in Ireland and which is therefore, in the implementation sense, a local point for a public-private partnership in Ireland. When I say that the agency and the agency have no intention of setting priorities, let alone restricting freedom of determination and priorities and needs, I would like to say that the agency is a priority project, and at the level of the profession. If a unit of local self-government or state defines a particular need and defines a specific project, the Agency's task is to protect it, protect it from unwanted risks. When I mention the risk, the Ministry of Finance is not a priority either to set other priorities or to select and select the best projects, but to assess, by some projects, the risk of being in charge, or the risk that, of course, the 20, 25-year task carries, and not for public-private projects, not for all public-private partnerships projects. There's no such thing as a concession. So what happens to PPP based on concessions? What will the Ministry of Finance evaluate then? It will assess the fiscal effects, not assess the risk of debt itself. So about the agency, I'm really inclined to understand the doubts about her role and repeat two things, she's thought of as a center of knowledge, as a center of assistance, not as a center of limitation, let alone as a center to determine projects, or to determine someone in his name as a priority. We want the agency to actually underline this synergy, i.e. to achieve this synergy between a public and a private partner where partners invest some technological solutions that the state currently does not have, and of course there is a need. When I talk about technological solutions, it also asked a question, or expressed concern about the secrecy of the information contained in the contracts. Let the solutions with them pull some know-how and let the solutions with them draw with them intellectual property rights. In the case of the Varazdin County, I think my colleague is very well aware of what I'm talking about. In that case, the private partner will want his technological solution, his know-how and especially what he invests as his own intellectual property will want to protect. So we will have to allow profuturo certain parts of the contract that contain such technological solutions, i.e. these other two categories that I mentioned, to be protected from the abuse of other private investors who would tend to be something that intellectual property simply copys, implements and earns big money. Likewise, if I associate this with the desire to see in the future the JPP in the field of promoting knowledge and the development of scientific technologies, for example, in projects where the partner invests in the technology of waste collection and processing, then we need to understand that need to protect what is most valuable to the private partner besides money, which is technology itself. When we talk about what's being invested, what's being invested, that's where I think the two elements are crucial. Our first strategy, a political framework for the development of a public-private partnership where we as a state are determined towards a public-private partnership in terms of our priorities, which is simply that the need for an economy on the one hand and our own needs on the other hand meet in several different activities where we believe that the JPP can very much help us. In England, for example... the most present in the construction of hospitals, in the construction of schools. For example, in Portugal, the priority of the state, i.e. the state policy in the development of a public-private partnership, is to focus 90% on transport infrastructure alone. What do I mean by that? That we need a policy that will target the investor according to our needs. It's kindergartens today, schools, handball halls, prisons. In 25 years, however, everything may remain only on school buildings, and perhaps all of this falls into oblivion and in 25 years we, for example, want to improve the remaining hotel or tourist resources through forms of public-private partnership or build only railway infrastructure or maritime infrastructure through a public-private partnership. So we, as a state through a policy of investing in the form of a public-private partnership, are determined by that. When? In July we have, so this month we have the first draft of that strategy, it is intended to encourage a debate on public-private partnership through the first reading of the law. For the second reading of this draft bill and strategies and the law in the second reading will be synergy documents, so the strategy that will be adopted in the meantime will also result in this law that will, of course, be agreed and offered to agree to the units of local self-government. But there's another element that matters, which is that local self-government units have their own development strategy. The state will not determine local self-government units as their priority. Local self-government units must also have their own strategic framework for development. Therefore, when a private investor enters a local self-government unit for a water purifier, for a collector, for waste management, the local self-government unit must also know where its priorities are, that is, what it wants to invest in private capital and share with it the rights of risk and responsibility. The guidelines are mentioned. Guidelines since they were adopted by the Croatian Parliament, guidelines are not legally binding, they were an instructional document that was at the time and lack of knowledge to be opened, and lack of experience. Now we have more knowledge and more experience and the time has matured for us to pass a concrete law. The guidelines won't be effective at the same time as the law. It simply in the legal sense of the word doesn't make sense, so we'll have to find a way together. It was an idea to make it this law to simply put guidelines above force. However, it has been explained to us that this was not technically possible, so we will have to find a legal path together, in some ways, that the guidelines are actually in force and by applying this law, because it really doesn't make sense, nor do we intend to have two acts in force at the same time. Regarding the register of data that you have requested to prepare for second reading, the point of the register, the public-private partnership contract or all public-private initiatives is, of course, a commendable initiative and the activity of the future Public-private Partnership Agency. Because it was our best intention today to give you a summary of public-private partnerships in Croatia and experiences for the first reading in the opening letter. And what happened? Of course we asked absolutely throughout Croatia for all units of local self-government, regional self-government to provide us with information on all public-private partnerships projects that are currently under way. What happened? We got literally this. We've received three sentences of information for six cities. So where's our collection force and where's the obligation to get us information about a public-private partnership right now? She's gone. Is she based on guidance? No, I don't. Why? Guidelines are not binding, nor are we institutionally scholarshipd as an institution that can look for those data. So by prejudged your desire to have data for a second reading, we will literally, on the basis of the current legal basis, do an almost impossible mission, we will try to supply you with the data, but at this point, wanting to do it already for the first reading we got nothing. We received data from the town of Šibenik, Koprivnica, Karlovca, Opatija, the city of Zagreb, the town of Bjelovar. It's based on all units of local self-government specifically little. Why? We don't have that power. I believe that the agency as an implementing body, as someone who will and will run a register in which it will be mandatory to supply data when you will next ask us, when we will have full infrastructure we will be able to give you that information, because we will ultimately prescribe and such a commitment. Will the register be public? I absolutely respect, only the right to point out that the parts of the contract that will be contained in that register will be kept secret at the request of the investor when it comes to parts of the contracts explaining the way and application of the technology applied in a particular project. Here's to the end, you've given us time to think about the deadlines. Since it is the deadlines before the procurement process is launched, we will try to think about the fact that these deadlines are actually short and that I am automatically reminded of the time needed to prepare well for a project currently under way in the Ministry of Environmental Protection, which has been working for a year and a half to prepare a water treatment project. It's a good project, it's a very extensive project. The intention is to enter a public-private partnership with him, but for the good preparation of the project, of course, it takes an adequate time. As regards Article 23, as regards the monitoring of the implementation of the project by the Agency, I agree that this formulation may be a little too far. But what's the point of this formulation, I'm going to give you on a concrete example, is the possibility of the agency to point out to the public partner the need to apply the reduction formula in the event of risk activation. Therefore, the public partner may, in the absence of information and the knowledge of the implementation of the project itself, be alerted to continue to carry out the project, while the kind of risk that gives him reasonable reasons to reduce the existing price has been activated. We believe that the agency must keep an eye on and thus protect public money in the event that there is therefore a legitimate reason for it to ultimately be priced and reduced. Here is the conclusion, once again, I thank absolutely everyone for a very positive debate, for recognising the need to pass this law, whether three years later or three years earlier. The important thing is that we all recognized together the need for this law to be passed. And as we continue to conduct both discussion and consultation with the profession and with the interested public, I believe that in the second reading we will bring before you a better text. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13714	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13715	We move to the proposal for a law on public-private partnership, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 126. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the following conclusions. Firstly, the proposal for a law on public-private partnership is adopted. Secondly, all comments, proposals, opinions presented in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final proposal for the Law. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. These conclusions were accepted by the majority of votes. 98 votes for, 17 abstentions and 6 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13716	We move to the next point - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 125 The Proposer of the Law is Government. The debate was conducted by the Committees on European Integration, Law and Economy. You received the reports at the session. Who will further explain the proposal? State Secretary Tamara Obradović Mazal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13717	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. According to the Parliament, the government points to a first reading of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act. Allow me to give a brief introduction to the application of the Public Procurement Act in the first seven months of this year and to the amendments and additions of the Public Procurement Act. By 4 July of this year, a total of 15 thousand publications have been published in an electronic public procurement advert, which can be seen from this graph, most of which are waste on invitation competitions. However, there were 2 thousand 648 contracted out of a total of 15 thousand posts. Of which, the largest number of contracts, even 1662 wastes on low-value purchases. As for the very manifestations of our supervision, which has been carried out in the application of the Public Procurement Act since this year, there have been 800 of them, of which resolved today on 576. And to what our analysis primarily directed in the application of the Public Procurement Act of 01. This year, in most parts of the purchases that are systematised under services 2a and 2b, then exemptions from the application of the Public Procurement Act, a common dictionary on public procurement, construction works, items of procurement, publication, the negotiation process as well as the estimated value of the procurement plan. This chart, in a way, follows our analysis, indicates exactly what the bidders, which the contracting authorities, the difficulties in applying the Public Procurement Act, were most likely found in our consultations, workshops, the school of purchases that we have for 13 days, as well as in collaboration with the Croatian Association of Employers, and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, retraced our question, which is particularly difficult for you to apply in the Public Procurement Act. Their answer was more or less Unison when it comes to certain procurement procedures, i.e. concrete materials which I therefore listed from services 2a and 2b to a common public procurement dictionary. Through our educational workshops, counselling and procurement schools, it went to 01. Seventy-seven. 13 thousand 810 people, which is what people who are employed and work in the contracting authorities, that is, in the bidders and absolutely the first and last points, that is, the first and last question has always been, point out the difficulties in applying the Public Procurement Act. The law on public procurement is an important law, it is an element, an instrument of competition between bidders, but it is also a law that serves as an assessment to the suppliers to us who are getting on behalf of other people's money, which is really the best, sustainable one, which is actually the greatest and best value for the money we give through labour contracts, goods and services. On the basis of this feedback from the primary client and bidder, we have approached the amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act. We have also added nomotechnical changes since the former Government of Croatia's public procurement office has been systematised within the Ministry of Economy and become the Public Procurement Administration, we have also been led by the fact that the Law on concessions and the Law on Public Private Partnership has been prepared. Therefore, we also wanted to make a link to these two draft draft laws, and finally, in the least part concerning the amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act, we have also implemented further harmonisation with the two latest directives. It is one for the purposes of obtaining for the purposes of defence and protection of national security, and the other is the directive of last year on legal protection. However, if we were to talk worthily or in percentage terms about the reasons for the adoption, i.e. proposing amendments and supplementing the Law on public procurement of compliance with the acquis, it is indeed the smallest. What exactly do we propose, i.e. what is our concrete reaction to the feedback of the application of the Public Procurement Act by the bidder and the contracting authority? Elimination of the obligation to publish the purchases that are excluded from the Public Procurement Act, the aim of simplifying the multi-annual procurement by means of a framework agreement, as well as full compliance with the directive in relation to the amount of the multi-annual framework agreement for a period of up to 4 years with the possibility of an extension in exceptional cases, the introduction of a category of purchase plan, as well as the clarification of the items of procurement and the way in which the common procurement dictionary, where the CPV, i.e. the common dictionary of procurement, is not the subject of procurement, but merely an instructive means of clarifying the subject-matter, the exceptions from the mandatory time-limits of peace of mind, i.e. there in procedures where only one bidder appears. So you have virtually no one else to complain in this process except for one bidder, we extend the deadline of the complaint and we increase it from 8 to 10 days, we clarify the moment of the conclusion of the contract on public procurement, which is the possible consequence of his refusal to sign it, and that is how we introduce it for the first time in 30 days when the contract must be signed. We hold that the deadlines, or the time that passes until the decision and after the decision, must be summed up for 30 days when the contract must be signed, otherwise the contracting authority will not waste any time or money, nor the meaning of what is obtained can be turned to the other bidder and conclude the contract with him, or cancel the tender as is the earlier option under the applicable law. We also made it possible to apply the thresholds of the European Union, i.e. to apply thresholds of value to purchase by following the European Union Directive, and we activated Article 177 of the market simply requested, the economy said it was ready to apply the reduced deadlines. You know that the deadlines of 52 days according to the applicable Public Procurement Act, the economy requested the activation of Article 177 and we activated it so that it was now reduced by 32 days. If we connect it to electronic procurement, the deadlines are actually cut by seven days or five days. Of all the further changes and additions, I would only say that this law also requires the professionalization of persons engaged in public procurement procedures. We bind this to values of over 300, or 500 thousand kuna, if the client weighs a part of the process implements above that limit value. We believe that any purchaser who has other people's money can sacrifice 13 days for the education of his own staff, or one person who will be certified for public procurement procedures and who, every two years, will make their knowledge compulsory and carry out, or loses it in the opposite certificate, because the right changes, trends change, the market changes, Aquico changes. Therefore, the person who has someone else's money must be adequately educated. I will also conclude that this draft bill has been envisaged and that a more liberal system of proof of ability, i.e. the submission of evidence of ability, is taken over. However, on our proposal to make this just a belief of impunity, the economy reacted and demanded a stay in a stricter regime. Such a similar proposal is also proposed by the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, as well as employers, and therefore we think at this point that we will be willing to listen to the economy and return them to at least a stricter regime in due course. The directive only prescribes that minimum minimum, and that is proof of impunity. There's no obstacle to being in a stricter regime. I'm saying, our intensity has been completely denormising that part in some way, reducing the number of certificates that have to be removed and reduced time, but the economy has said its own, and I think we're going back to the old regime. Our consultations are still under way regarding the text of the draft bill. So we are in consultation and with the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, with the Croatian Employers' Association, as well as with the Association of Cities. We also hear from individual interested persons who are working on public procurement procedures, big orderrs but also big bidders, and I would say that this law almost daily in the hands of my associates is experiencing intense and changes and reflections and until other readings, certainly listening to your debate and your suggestions until the second reading, I believe that we will have an even better quality document. Finally, I would say that changes and additions in no way introduce new concepts, nor introduce new procedures, nor change the public procurement procedures so far. We believe that we have also made the foundation of the demands of those who compete, those who go through the tendering every day. I think we've refreshed the law, released it from some bureaucratic inter-steps, and I believe that you will recognize the quality of this proposal as well as the businessmen do so so far. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13718	Thank you. Legislative committees, economics, European integration? I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13719	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for your understanding. Representatives of the ministry, state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. When we talk about a law that defines public procurement, we talk about an extremely delicate act that defines a very sensitive area of action in our society. The bill states that any changes to the legislation in question tend to pursue the same objective, to simplify public procurement procedures, to streamline the business of the state, to reduce costs while respecting the basic principles of public procurement. Is Croatia ready to comply with the European Union in terms of liberalisation of the Public Procurement Act, i.e. would Europe resent us if we had left some provisions that in some ways make it difficult for non-transparent business that is related to certain procurement procedures. What is the situation in Croatia we can see from several examples. Here, yesterday in one week's paper, the title is "Minister Rončevića is questioning USKOK.". It is a case that President Mesic has repeatedly pointed out in public and the most controversial part is the fact that Minister Roncevic bought 39 trucks with a direct contract then and spent 14 million kunas more than 23 companies reported in the tender. On the other hand, two months ago at a conference, Prime Minister Sanader said "We are fighting for transparency in public procurement, for the efficiency of public administration against bribery and corruption.". Of course, we all support such a struggle, but on the other hand, at the same conference, the head of the Croatian Department of Administration and the enlargement of the European Union, David Daly, pointed out that Croatia is not yet in a phase in which the criteria for opening public procurement would be met. All of this is to say that unfortunately in Croatia standards in this area are not yet satisfactory. Public procurement is a mirror of society. Whether society is transparent enough or deeply corrupt, whether there is an atmosphere of competence in society or companies that do not have a favourable environment for their development. The concept of public procurement includes the purchase of goods and services amounting to 43 billion kuna or slightly more than 15% of GDP in Croatia. All of this requires that all interested parties be involved in the adoption of this law in order to make the law as high as possible. I must remind myself that we have been applying the new Public Procurement Act since the beginning of this year, and it is very interesting in some ways, which is why this law is complemented or amended after only six months. We are all aware today in Croatia that one of Croatia's biggest problems with access to the European Union is the problem of corruption in one part of the public procurement. We are all witnessing daily complaints and doubts about certain jobs that have been completed in the context of what we call public procurement. Corruption is unfortunately well-involved in Croatian society, and it must be the cancer of the Croatian economy. With such laws as this, we certainly increase the transparency of spending public money and on the other hand reduce the possibility of corruption and bargaining. In the introduction of this law, it is said that harmonisation with the EU's acquis is heading towards liberalisation of the existing law. It is said that the current application of the Public Procurement Act is in practice which, in certain provisions as I have said, is much more stringent than the practice in the European Union and is said to remove certain ambiguities and difficulties in the application of certain institutes of the said law. Those difficulties need to be addressed, thus creating assumptions for respecting the basic principles of the public procurement system and greater flexibility in the conduct of public procurement procedures. This sentence sends one confusing and worrying message which is that we have had a much stricter law and on the other hand a non-transparent process of public procurement so far. In fact, logically. We will not solve anything in Croatia with the highest quality laws unless there is a will for these laws to be implemented and there is no political will for corruption in Croatia to end and these wills seem to be missing. The Public Procurement Act has unfortunately become a cover in Croatia in some cases for certain murky matters and on the other hand, we are witnessing that every year in the State Audit reports we have many objections and many indications that the provisions of this law and of this one that has been in force so far do not adhere to either the institutions of the state or the ministries of those who should be the first to adhere to it. I don't know if it's true or if I'm being denied, but I'm not sure anyone in Croatia has ever paid a fine for not keeping the Public Procurement Act. I don't think there's a case like that. All this tells me that there is no clear political will in Croatia to put an end to corruption in part of public procurement and that is worrying. The law amends and simplifies public law, the applicants say, in terms of abolishing the obligation to publish purchases from excluded law, further regulation of public procurement contracts for defence purposes. It is good to place a little clearer provisions on what is of exceptional importance for the defence of the Republic of Croatia, to specify these services and goods. It is stressed that it is going towards simplifying multi-annual procurement, which means that it will be easier to make purchases that can be assumed that the continuous, continuous going will go on for many years. The categories of procurement plan are further introduced, which so far only stemmed from the provisions of the law as necessary so that we can see who and by which amount they will purchase certain goods and services. And other things that we think are good to determine. It is interesting in the law itself to see what is excluded from the law means as an obligation to tender or what is excluded from the Public Procurement Act that it does not have to be obtained through a public tender. Two examples are extremely interesting. First of all, it is on contracts for acquisition, development of production and co-production and software intended for radio-television broadcasting and for radio-television broadcasting terms, which means that they are excluded from the Law on Public Procurement of Emissions, or a simplified soap opera, which has so far been particularly on public television about how they are obtained and how huge fees from Croatian radio-television funds are paid to certain producers. Second, to purchase whose main purpose is to allow contracting authorities to provide or use a public telecommunications network or to provide a market for one or more telecommunications services. This is particularly unclear to me because this is about an extremely large market, especially what we have in recent years, and the liberalisation of that market, or more operators, in this way would lead to a more favourable position for an operator who is dominant on the market. Of course, we welcome the setting of standards in that public procurement providers must be educated. that every two years they have to renew their knowledge in the area of public procurement and receive adequate confirmation that these procedures are not, of course, repeated by the error of the contracting authority. This is about purchases of 300 thousand kuna for goods and services and 500 thousand kuna for works. There have often been examples in public procurement where tenders have been torn down because those who have supplied goods and services have not been sufficiently educated in some way. They were less qualified for the procedure than those who appeared in the competition. The question is whether it is the correct liberalisation of the law in the sense that one who will participate in the preparation of the competition is one of the provisions that we disagree with. It means that one who participates in the preparation of the competition can participate in the procurement process. It says the law that if there is no decisive advantage but we believe that anyone involved in the preparation of the competition is given a certain advantage over other bidders. We also believe that it is necessary to see whether the liberalisation of the law in terms of repealing the procurement process will lead to the exploitation of this instrument unless public procurement bonds are satisfied with the choice of bidders. There are a lot of possibilities defined by law to undo certain public procurement procedures, and we know that there are often many complaints about such abuses in procedures, and there are many complaints from those who appear in competitions. In the end, I believe that, with the amendments to the law, it is necessary to do it for the sake of transparency and perhaps even in the law to introduce an obligation to make it, let's say, in that way, black lists of providers and users of goods and services that in some way abuse the Institute of Public Procurement. There are many who report to competitions only to fulfill the form and after, if they choose them as the lowest bidder, give up the procedure and leave that service and get to whoever was after them. The most common thing is companies that have the same subcontractors, and of course we can't talk about transparency here, and in such public procurement procedures, there are always doubts about dishonest activities. It is also of course necessary to make a list of tenderers who correctly carry out their contractual obligations and who are correctly doing services and delivering goods to what they have committed to the competition, and this must be made publicly available to us so that all participants in the procurement process are familiar with these companies. Finally, I would like to say that we will support the proposal of this law in the first reading, and we hope that until the second reading of the other thing, that until the second reading some things will be improved, and that by consistent application of this law, the Government will, in particular, apply within its ministries. I note this because the state audit from year to year notes in its reports that procedures are not implemented in certain ministries and that this law does not apply in the manner in which they should be applied. That they will sanction the responsible persons in those ministries and change the civil servants I say year after year, who are deaf and disobeying this law. In this way, we will show by our own example both the government and the institutions of this country that there is indeed a political will in this sector to end with non-transparency and to reduce the possibility of corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13720	Thank you. It's an HSS rep club. Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13721	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, colleagues and colleagues. The important Public Procurement Act is relatively seeing a new law that was passed in October last year and began to apply in January this year. But during such a short period of application, he also showed some of his shortcomings. Inaccuracy, uncertainty and difficulty in the practice that is necessary to correct and supplement. Inefficiencies in the application of the law are further conditioned after the entry into force of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's Regulations and there were 7 and the practical application of the laws and regulations pointed to certain gaps and difficulties in implementing them, thus announcing positive effects and obvious positive developments in relation to the previous law being adjudicated by new red tape and ineffectiveness. Furthermore, the existing law is also in line with the European Union Directives, and therefore does not contain all new provisions of European public procurement law and it is therefore necessary to bring them into line. The law in force now even prescribes stricter provisions than the law itself in relation to the Directives of the European Union which have made it difficult for the contracting authorities to conduct the same law, and in particular in the section relating to the obligations to publish the purchases which are considered to be exempted in the meaning of Article 5 of the Law, as well as to prevent the conclusion of a contract within the period of rest in the procedures exempted from the application of the law. The deadlines for the delivery of tenders in an open and limited procedure and the application of the publication and registration regulation do not allow contracting authorities to use reduced deadlines, but longer deadlines apply after the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union, which is in fact a step backwards. The application of the existing law has also caused negative effects on the ground, so looking at the issue of everyday life of the citizens themselves, the overall dissatisfaction is evident because of the ineffectiveness of local self-government units, which are in fact blocked by certain provisions, and some cities as contracting entities clearly want to improve the standard of living of their citizens in the area of settlement and housing, spatial and urban planning arrangements, including environmental protection, and what we see here in the area of local self-government units' competence. Certainly, when the law still in force was passed, it was not intended to complicate and process and block units of local and regional self-government, but the results of the application speak in favour of what was said. We therefore welcome all changes in this bill which will address the observed shortcomings and observed shortcomings. The proposed law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act regulates the procurement procedures of all values, the competence of the authority responsible for the public procurement system. But a significant normative, qualitative shift has been made with the aim of simplifying the procurement process, reducing the costs of the procedure with respect to the fundamental principles of public procurement as well as rationalising the business of the state. It is also further regulated and prescribed public procurement contracts for the purposes of defence and security of the Republic of Croatia. The obligation to publish the purchases excluded from the application of the Public Procurement Act is hereby repealed. The category of the procurement plan is introduced as an necessity that explains the items of supply and the way in which they are determined. Also, we positively assess the solution by which in the event of withdrawal from the client first in a row behind it gets a job. The following legislation regulates many things, and in its making what we consider extremely commendable at the Croatian Peasants' Club, a large number of institutions are involved, but also accepted numerous suggestions and remarks for the purpose of removing irregularities and uncertainty, as well as improving public procurement systems. We believe that the proposed amendments and additions are more than welcome, even necessary not only for the contracting authorities but primarily for the citizens themselves who are the end-users and most of the services of goods and works for which the contracting authorities conduct public procurement procedures. However, we are paying attention to certain stricter provisions of the law than the requirements of the European Union Directive which remain in force, and this obligation to publish the negotiation procedure without prior publication and purchase of the services of Appendix IIB. Then the possibility of applicants to make an appeal up to one year from the date on which the procedure was carried out which regulates Article 147 paragraph 2 of the existing law, and no new provision has been made. With a view to achieving quality solutions, we propose that the above provisions be amended and regulated in a simplified manner. Following all the stated club of the Croatian Peasant Party, the proposed provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Procurement will achieve positive and quality effects in practice, which is to simplify the public procurement process, rationalise the business of the State, reduce the costs with respect to the basic principles of public procurement, simplify the public procurement process itself with certain transparency, which will ultimately lead to the satisfaction of the final consumers, and we primarily think of our citizens. From everything presented as well as from the proposed aim of improving the proposed amendments and the addition of the HSS club will support the proposal of this law in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13722	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13723	Dear Mr. Chairman, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Here is another proposal for a law that is directly related to real life and especially to business activities. As mentioned in the introduction, it is in direct connection with the documents and laws we are discussing these days in the Croatian Parliament – the Law on Public-private Partnership, the Law on concessions, and it is directly applied to the Law on Budgets, as well as to other laws. As the segment of public procurement has been said and the topic is extremely current in Croatian society and certainly above all in the economic life of our country. And I dare say as one of the responsible persons in the executive power and directly for five years participated in the public procurement commissions and listening to today a good part of the opening discussions that speak in a way of non-transparency, not respecting the law can say that in this past time, in a large part of that time, it was certainly in all those who spoke or in a good part of those who discussed public procurement and a large part of the unknowns in the way they did and how in the most qualitative way to implement something new. I will just remind you here that a large part of our public tendering obligations are both municipalities and cities, and those small municipalities that in one person have sector leaders for both business and finance and culture, and that in the good part they couldn't even know how to cope with this situation. On the other hand, it is also a fact that apart from the part where the best bidders gave up... /The speaker understands./... so someone behind it came in turn and at a higher price something worked, built, sold or similar. We also had a second part of one part of professional companies with extremely good legal teams who were in a position to almost bring down every public tender in the light of the Law or on public procurement and some other documents needed to bring it in and we knew that even a few times during the year we could not conduct the competitions. That's why we lost the right to use funds. I will immediately specify another important segment here so that I am extremely supportive, which is that the additional education of personnel related to the conduct of the procedure, well, and this electronic processing affects the new highly qualified camera which is electronically written, with which the links are better educated and the number of 13 thousand and 800 itself, if I have well noticed the remark, the remarks and the education and seminars carried out so far tell us that this is well affected, and I therefore consider it an exceptional contribution which, in the time ahead, will be important to contribute, in the best faith, in the best sense, we also know the quality consequences to the end. I'll look back here briefly on another important segment. In my town, in Zapresić of 2 years, this and the one that follows, over 100 to 150 million kuna investments that are subject to public procurement. In view of the fact that much of the public procurement is also linked to planning programmes, construction programmes that are again linked to spatial plans and all other documents, it was very difficult to anticipate in one financial year the funds that can be used in that financial year. And again we came into a situation where we couldn't use the funds and I support this second important segment, which is that based on years of planning we can go to public procurement, and that the funds don't have to be literally provided for all the time periods that were needed. By giving one ton of positive atmosphere, I dare say that even the new provisions that led to local self-government units and some other bidders having to have internal auditors within their own framework and within their business, so the persons directly led by the direct leaders are in a position to carry out certain business controls themselves and, among other things, to me, Zapresic was that after the education of the auditor, one of the first jobs was to revise two or three public procurements in my city. So, ladies and gentlemen, all this that has been brought here with one more remark, which is related precisely to the essential segments of the convenience of the offerer, is certainly commendable to the government's action and proposal to liberalise the procedure itself, and it is my view that in part of those basic segments, which are related to good business practices, which is neat tax pay, payment of personal income, technical ability and cadovska... We believe that the necessary and important segments are related to public procurement procedures, especially in view of the need for a new development cycle in the Croatian economy and beyond, we can say at the heights of public procurement that are no longer measured by only hundreds of thousands of kunas, but also by millions of kunas and as such require both better and better preparedness, thus reducing the possibility of cancelling certain public procurement procedures if we prepare this job as best and better. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since the State Secretary in the introductory part also explained the necessary changes, she also announced the possibility to accept in other readings and certain applications, I can only conclude that the Croatian Democratic Community Club will accept the amendment and addition of the Public Procurement Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13724	Thank you. And on behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club, distinguished representative Zlatko Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13725	Mr. Vice President, State Secretary. I believe that the adoption of this law, which amends and complements the Law on Public Procurement, is of great importance for the Republic of Croatia, because we all know and it is already today and it is pointed out that it has often been the area of various abuses of the illegality of corruption and of everything that we have in contact with the European Community justified, but not only with Europe justifiably indicates as things that have not been solved. It is an accurate conclusion from the reasoning of this law that the Republic of Croatia has a short tradition of regulating the area of public procurement and that the introduction of a public procurement system has had a significant impact on the overall economy because, according to the available data, between 43 and 44 billion kunas are being addressed in this public procurement system. Surely such relationships and such amounts favor what I mentioned earlier, therefore, with various negatives, illegalities, and abuses if this area is not precisely governed by legal regulations. Therefore, it is also an accurate determination of public procurement rules in a way that both bidders and contracting entities start to act differently than it has been before and that precise regulation of public procurement is one important step away from the current practice of contracting between the state and the private sector. Therefore, the public procurement system directly affects the economy of the whole country and the state is of course an important economic factor and, as I said before and the level of cash transactions must have a significant impact on the economy throughout the country, and therefore, this impact of the state must be positive and encouraging, which is impossible if I do not have a precise legal framework. What is unusual, but at the same time it may be difficult to understand, is to amend and supplement public procurement laws only half a year after the entry into force of the law adopted in October 2007, and entered into force on 1 January this year. This proves that the basic law, which was mentioned earlier before the adoption of that law, did not address all the issues in a way that would draw attention to the effects that occurred in practice after the introduction of the public procurement system, and apparently the provisions of that law were not even in line with the European Community directives, so that such legislation could not implement the reform of the public procurement system in accordance with European legislation, i.e. such existing legislation did not contain all the new provisions of European law in the field of public procurement and then normal harmonisation of such a system with European law. The main objection to the public procurement system so far is clarity and difficulties in the application of individual institutes, especially since it has been shown in practice that certain provisions are significantly stricter than the European directives, and a number of formal bureaucratic and administrative obstacles have emerged in implementing such a system, leading again to less flexibility and respect for the basic principles of the public procurement system in practice. I therefore feel positive that the proposer of this law has seen certain errors and inconsistencies not only with European directives but also with the observations that have come from those most interested, which are entities that implement the public procurement system and therefore propose that these amendments and additions which should remove those difficulties and obstacles in the literal application, because it is now clear that there is a lack of equality of matter and problems in interpreting certain provisions and in practice. This is more important because the area of public procurement is directly linked to the area of concessions and the area of public private partnership, and the reform of the public procurement system has a direct impact on the area of public-private partnership concessions and the need to bring them into line with European legislation and, of course, obtaining a positive assessment for all three legislative areas of public procurement by the European Commission. Since I come from local self-government, and this certainly applies to other colleagues who have dealt with it, we are best known problems with red tape, related to the red tape of public procurement procedures under the applicable law, and I can tell you that despite the numerous educations, seminars, workshops and round tables held in the organisation of public procurement administrations, there are a lot of ambiguities and issues that have often not been properly answered, and perhaps just a few examples. One of these is that, in the applicable law, the time limit of publication of the public procurement contract was 48 days from the date of the decision on the selection, which was neither final nor executive because of the legal remedies, etc., and the proposed amendments and additions to the deadlines for the publication of the accounts are the date of conclusion of the public procurement contract which I consider to be only correct and logical in eliminating possible misunderstandings and ambiguities in the realisation of the public procurement contract. The next example may be as a major misunderstanding from the current law, which is the moment of proof of the offeror's ability to negotiate the procedure without prior publication. In the current law, this deadline was not specified precisely but was used in advance as it was again in practice to create certain confusions and could be the cause of abuse and illegality in the public procurement system. I now hope that this ambiguity will be removed in such a way as the proposed formulation before sending the notice, which means that the offerer must prove its ability before sending the notice of initiation of the procurement procedure to the electronic public procurement advertiser. In particular, I draw attention to Article 8 which imposes an obligation that at least one of the employees of the contracting authority who participate in the preparation and implementation of the procurement process have completed a specialist training programme, which means professionalising these jobs, and which we of the local self-government have repeatedly pointed out, because in purchases of more than 300 thousand kunas for goods and services, respectively 500 thousand kunas for works, it is necessary that the person who performs this must professionally carry out his/her duties and, of course, be responsible and be responsible for such amounts. For those who are not engaged in a public procurement system, such examples as a number of others may seem irrelevant or irrelevant. However, it is precisely such indetermination of the applicable law in practice that workers working on these jobs can be an obstacle to the orderly work or to the assumption of certain abuses and illegalities. As a result, and finally, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party will support the adoption of the proposed amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act if solutions proposed during the first reading are introduced in the second reading, not only to fulfil the inclusion of the European Union Directive in this law but also to take into account opinions from practices that are also of no less importance, and finally to achieve that the public procurement system means that the contracting authority carries out the procurement as a good master, while respecting all the fundamental principles of public procurement and the application of transparent and simple and effective procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13726	Thank you. We move to an individual debate and is the first respected representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13727	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It is likely that the circumstances of the amendments to the Public Procurement Act are being discussed at the meeting when we also have a report in front of us by the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement which can be very useful in considering the existing law, but also the amendments and additions offered, because I want to believe that the legislators used the assessment of the state commission which, in my opinion, is a very relevant state body, and I will later also show what they wrote in their report last year. But for starters, I will remind again of another state body responsible for supervision or control, which is a state audit from which reports are made when units of local and regional self-government see that a solid number of objections, objections from the state audit they are referring, are precisely related to public procurement. The funds that decentralised functions carry into cities and counties' budgets range around 20% of total funds. Most of them are intended for large or small or medium-sized public procurement, maintenance, investment procedures, so anything that practically requires the application of the Public Procurement Act. Looking at the deadlines from the existing public procurement law if you do not have a complaint, so from the moment of decision-making to the conclusion of a contract in the most optimistic variant, it took you six months, but if any complaint is then it was difficult to be able to be so capable in that same calendar year and end this job especially because these same cities and these same municipalities can't run the public procurement process until the government has passed a regulation on decentralised funds and parent ministries decisions on those same funds. What should I ask, how will the State Commission be set up to control public procurement or state audit if a city or municipality has made a mistake or violated the Public Procurement Act because the Government has only adopted its regulation in May for the current year. If these cities and municipalities do not take advantage of the funds that are intended and for which other things cannot be used, they fail. Even more subject to political responsibility assessments by the representative body because they did not work properly. That's why I mentioned deadlines, I think, it's hard for me to accept some deadlines in this law to be extended. I even expected that the bill would cut the deadlines for all... Public procurement stores. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't understand why someone who thinks to complain takes 10 days to write a complaint, 8 or 10 now, if they're right and get to know each other, follow the process, why are we continuing? Why does it take someone 30 days to solve a complaint? Why open tender time 52, 37 or 22 days? It's like everything's coming out of the blue. On the one hand, we ask the beneficiary of the budget to have long-term planning and annual plans. On the other hand, the government and the resolution ministries are late making operational decisions. Here we have relatively long deadlines, and ultimately the shorter ones who are victims of delaying deadlines by the central state, deadlines and the Public Procurement Act and then another element of the application from spite and spite. I don't know if you know it, but who's doing this, you know that there's a lot of complainers and there's a complaint in the State Commission just to get revenge on the client and make it impossible for him to finish his job in time. As a result, it would be good to review once again the deadlines relating from the moment of publication to the time of signing of the contract, especially in the appeal procedure, in the follow-up to the follow-up of this law. The second in this report of the State Commission for the past year is visible next. Of the 16 thousand 555 public procurement procedures, protection of its rights required 600, total... in 2006 cases of 685 bidders, which means about 3.8%, 3.9%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This figure is not too large, but the value of public procurement in the process was 4 billion and 600 million kuna. Therefore, it is still an exceptional high value of procurement, public procurement that ends in front of the State Commission. The State Commission is in a position to educate and assist those who are investigating public procurement procedures, so let me remind you what they wrote in their report. First, the State Commission finds it insufficient to regulate the work and conduct of the State Commission itself. They have observed the lack of public procurement law when it comes to the Commission itself and the work of the public procurement law that it must implement. I ask you to keep that in mind in preparation for the second reading of the law. Furthermore, the procedure before the State Commission shall be initiated and conducted solely on the basis of the complaint lodged and no proceedings under official duty. This results in the fact that only where a complaint has been made is subject to any supervision and control in terms of legality. Third, the current public procurement system continues to suggest that there is a significant number of public procurement procedures in which there is never legal protection in the form of an appeal procedure and lists three large groups of such procedures that prove that they are. Fourthly, the judicial procedure before the Court of Justice of the Republic of Croatia takes several years to propose judicial protection of public procurement rights before the Administrative Court should make the law urgent or otherwise regulated because, indeed, if before the Administrative Court, the procedure takes several years for public procurement, then it is unconditional. Neither the contracting authority can complete the procurement procedure nor conduct it, nor will the one who initiates the procedure receive any satisfaction if it comes after 3 years because there is no success. And in conclusion, I expect that this self-thinking evaluation and the suggestions that the State Commission makes to us in last year's report will also be carefully read in the Government when the law on second reading is written. And I repeat, try to see with these deadlines because it seems to me that these deadlines are given and set as for the society in which the public procurement plans for 2013 are now adopted in 2008, and most of the public contracting authorities are making public procurement plans for this year these very days. Not your fault. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13728	Thank you. Dear Representative Kreso Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13729	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I will try to say something in general in this debate about the public procurement itself, its meaning and the importance of its quality and transparent arrangement in any society and so on in the Republic of Croatia. In this case, public procurement is a procedure which the contracting authorities, in this case a public-law person, the state of the unit of local self-government, funds, institutions and other legal entities which are largely financed from the state budget, use in the selection of economic operators to perform certain works, provide certain services and obtain goods in the public interest. It is important to stress that procurement would be public, it would have to respect certain principles that allow all economic operators, hence the offerors an equal position and offer them the same opportunity in the public procurement market. In particular, the role of the state as an extremely significant economic factor should be highlighted which has a significant impact on the overall economy, but on society as a whole, by its activities, by the number and the level of monetary transactions. Here I will mention only one piece of information that I think is extremely interesting and that contributes to the fact that in 2007 there were total public procurement in the Republic of Croatia 44 billion kuna, meaning somewhere around 44 billion kuna or 15.70% of gross social product, domestic product. For this very reason, it is very important to establish a quality public procurement system that will fully respect the principle of freedom of movement of goods and services, the principle of competition, the principle of equality and the prohibition of discrimination, the principle of efficiency and the principle of transparency. Such a system must have built-in and anti-corruption mechanisms that will bribe and corruption, but also other unwanted phenomena in our society, either bring them down to the lowest possible level or eliminate them completely. I don't think it should be pointed out in particular that a good public procurement system, which, apart from the Law on Public Procurement, should also be made by the Law on concessions, and the Law on Public-private Partnership, which we discussed in the first reading at this session of the Parliament and which I hope will soon be adopted and highlighted by the Office on Public Procurement of the Ministry of Economy, the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedure and the State Audit, is on the one hand a guarantee of success in this fight against bribery and corruption, and abuse in the management of state property, and on the other hand contributes to raising the level of trust in the public and the economy towards state institutions, and Croatian politics and its politicians. For all of the above, today we are discussing the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act, which I am convinced will contribute to the achievement of the objectives set out, i.e. simplifying the public procurement process acceptable to users, its rationalisation and flexibility and efficiency, and its full transparency. The legal arrangement of the area of public procurement in the Republic of Croatia took place for the first time in '95. In 1995 and in the meantime, until this law that is now in force was a series of amendments. I would just point out that the 2001 Public Procurement Act could not satisfy the meaning of the need for time, either on national or international terms, and therefore, last year, a new Public Procurement Act was adopted, which is largely in line with the European Union directives. However, here is the full implementation of some of the new Directives of the European Union. It was also observed in the practice of applying this law that there were certain shortcomings, that simply some of the instruments of the applicable laws could not be implemented in practice. I would especially like to commend and highlight the work and work of the Office for the Public Procurement System of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, which has carried out a number of roundtables, meetings, seminars, education, because on the one hand education is very important in the public procurement system for our economic operators, which today for their coming out on the European market, because they have to know the public procurement systems and principles in the European and international markets, and on the other, that during those educations and through the daily communication of offices and consultations, significant and quality proposals and recommendations could be made in terms of amending these laws that are being amended today. Therefore, by respecting all the abovementioned reasons why amendments and additions are proposed, we can classify them for three basic reasons. The first is due to the need for further harmonisation of our legislation in the field of public procurement with the acquis of the European Union. The second is to remove certain irregularities and ambiguities and difficulties in the application of the law. And the third is due to the need to comply with other applicable regulations. Of course, this law brings significant newspapers and additional quality into the public procurement system, but I will not speak too much in that part. I think my predecessors said a lot about it. But I'm going to highlight one thing that I think needs to be highlighted, one newspaper in this law, which is this part of the education, that is, the specialist education of the staff that will work on public procurement procedures, is it a few times that we emphasized in this House, that all the irregularities that occurred in the public procurement in the previous period, are not just because it's some kind of crime or dishonest act, but it was about ignorance. I think this obligation for educated people to conduct public procurement procedures will make a significant contribution to the public procurement system. And in the end for everything I've said before, I will absolutely and completely support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13730	Thank you. Dear Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13731	In 2006, every other public procurement on which the complaint was filed and assessed as illegal, and the procurement procedure was annulled in 2007 almost the same. In doing so, it should be borne in mind that the vast majority of dissatisfying and not complaining, for they are afraid of retaliation from a company they would like to deal with in the future. The most common reasons for the cancellation are illegal documentation, violations of public procurement rules, use of short deadlines of reasoning, suspicious criteria and the most economically favourable offers, as can often be heard are the secrets of the public procurement of MORH, so it can be said that in Croatia it has been very often made, procurement of public and corruption secret. The strategy against corruption recently adopted highlights exactly the area of public procurement in its objectives, and the Law on concessions, the Law on Public-private Partnership and today's amendments to the Law on Public Procurement are the first steps in achieving these objectives. However, it is still papers, words, and we need works. I hope that these changes will also encourage us to start from word to deed and that how I could read the quads of the foreign cooperation of the Office for Audit, the Ministry of Finance, the State's Attorney's Office, and the State's Audit Office should soon really show that we have decided to move actively from word to action to control, detecting, processing and condemning corruption. Recently, in Opatija, I heard that in obtaining investment contracts, corruption appears in 57% of cases. The amount of the paid corrupt rent is 3% of the total annual income of economic operators, and the amount of the commission of the known bribe, the insurance of public contracts and between 3 and 10% of the contracted work. Among 14 problematic factors, this type of corruption in Croatia was in the 11th place in 2004, but has already reached 4th place. This should once again stress that the participation of public procurement businesses in the European Union and Croatia is moving above 15%. Of course, no one in the world is spared from giving or receiving bribes in Croatia. There is one in all countries, undeveloped, but also quite in high-developed, where a special form of crime is put. Crime of corruption in public procurement in the world is very strong and is always linked to state structures, so it is often called political corruption, so-called. The crime of a great convert. It refers to intellectual labour, people in the highest positions with better incomes within companies, companies, corporations, which, unlike those in the less-paid physical jobs, are in a position to conduct so-called "supervised". smooth financial crime. There is a fundamental difference between Croatia and the world, because in the world they are much more successful in fighting this smooth crime. Let us remember Finland's Patria, or Germany's Siemens, while in Croatia this fine corrupt elite is spared investigation and judgment. Not to repeat Bechtel, Brodo-Split, highways, especially setting up tender documentation for the purchase of the most expensive medical equipment in hospitals. Maestro, let's not forget him. Following the cream mentioned these days in Zagreb Holding and the latest examples is still far from the cream. Therefore, this law must be a big and important step in fighting corruption. However, the legal frameworks of public procurement in Croatia are one thing, it is quality, business morality is quite another, but the weakest link of each strategy, every action plan is people, who in this case sitting in state bodies and units of local self-government become public authorities and actually they decide who passes who does not, who gets cheese, who gets cream and who gets nothing. Giving privileged contracts and using a private position are the most common forms of public procurement corruption. According to experiences from the European Union that can be useful to us, the largest number of corrupt activities in the public procurement system occur after the completion of the public competition, is carried out in advance at the lowest price agreed in order to subsequently agree on the amount to a real or higher price. These negative effects of corruption in public procurement procedures are unnecessary increases in the expenditure needed for state investment. Corruption acts as an additional tax, increasing the input of competitors and bidders in the procurement process, jeopardising competitiveness, allowing business risk to turn into total uncertainty, thereby driving capital from Croatia, slowing down the development of entrepreneurship and the economy and creating a fall in business morality. Therefore, education that is widely spoken of is vital. Some examples could be a real key stage to see what's going on. The highway, which was built in Croatia from a mile [4 km] to 12 million although the costs of materials and labour force grew incomparably less speaking. It's interesting to see who's responding to these competitions. In fact, it is rare to see that the same competitors always appear, to know in advance which company will get the job. We can even talk about the division of the market, the creation of the monopoly and the criminal part of the extortion. I hope that in the 2008 report, when we see that the public procurement control office is more satisfied and that this law that we are adopting today, which I certainly support, will contribute.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13732	Thank you. And we still have a respected representative, Krešimir Gulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13733	Dear Vice President... I'm out. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] I will, with a few words, also refer to previous discussions concerning amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act. A lot has been said but I will say a few things that I am here reading the law, these changes that have prompted me from personal experience, and what I particularly welcome is that the simplification of the multi-annual purchase is prescribed by framework agreements or contracts for the purpose of regular functioning without the obligation to plan financial resources. It is in any case commendable because, as already said earlier, it is difficult to plan funds in our budgets in the year and to know that these funds planned and planned in the public procurement plan will be spent and spent because many times we do not know whether or not we will charge for the community contributions in the plan in which we planned or not. So here I think this way we can make public procurement and the funds don't have to be planned in that year. I would like to take a look at any case that the new Public Procurement Act adopted last year and entered into force on 1.1 this year has certain shortcomings and I hope that this amendment and supplement will remove them, so here is the new Construction Act that has been adopted, the licensing issue. I think this is a good thing that we can do in the competitions that we conduct in our local self-government units in this way and see by the licenses that certain companies have received whether they are capable and able to do the job they are reporting for. Because here's a lot of cases to tell us companies that some kind of investment that's a little bigger has one machine, two, three people, pays none, obligations unpaid, etc. And then it happens to you that this job that they took through the contest, too, is a lot of times I can't even do it. So I say hello to that too. And also, I think there's a question here of criteria for selecting the most favourable offers. We've had a lot of problems, I'm speaking from experience, when we've called a tender and you've heard from here at the lowest price of someone who can't do the job, and then you have trouble having to cancel the competition because by the last year, 80% of the price, the criterion was 80% of the price and other basic favourable conditions. And now here I think this is how it's solved so it's not just the lowest price criterion, it's the most favourable offer that meets the criteria of the competition. As far as the deadlines are concerned, here are the deadlines from 52 to 32 days, and I welcome that anyway. Maybe we should cut some deadlines because we know that we now have a new law through e-procurement, meaning where we have the tenders, so that this procedure could be even shorter and the same deadline of complaints shorter because a bunch of times some of the things we have to do in competitions and in haste, and then here are the deadlines that extend and realize those programs that we have drawn out. What I'd like to say is that it's so-called. Bagatel procurement up to 70,000 kuna. I think it's been very helpful to local self-government units that they don't have to go to those competitions anymore. They had up to 20 grand before, so after 20 to 200, there was an invitation to tender, and there was a lot of time and paper wasted until it was settled. I think it's a lot simpler this way. One of the most fundamental and important things we can do, emergency interventions, here's with a direct contract of up to 70,000 kuna, and in any case, for all praise, with a big new law. Here, because of all of this above, what I wanted to say at the end of the amendments and additions is aimed at simplifying the public procurement process and rationalising business and these amendments and additions to the law of the public procurement system in the Republic of Croatia makes a significant regulatory and quality shift towards the legislation of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13734	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, five minutes of honourable representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13735	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Here, at the end of this debate, let me say that the SDP club will support the proposal of this law as well as any other law that is in the direction of transparency and the suppression of corruption. But we also believe that we must show in practice that what we bring in this House, that the acts we all support and in practice we want to implement. Here, I'll mention two examples again. One example is the State Audit report. We'll have it back on the table this year and we'll discuss purchases or acquisitions in ministries that didn't go according to this law. We need to show in practice that we want to sanction such things and that this can no longer happen in the state administration. And secondly, I think we need to give a little more support to the Public Procurement Control Commission. It is a committee that controls the whole process where complaints are made if someone is not satisfied with the way the process was being conducted, a commission that controls 43 billion kunas of funds, public money that takes place in this public procurement process. And imagine how much he spends, 5 million kuna is the agency's budget, or commission, and even that commission doesn't have any employees in the scope that the systematization envisioned, envisaged. So we need to give support to the institutions that are responsible for controlling the whole process, and in this sense, to this Commission, which means that there is not even a full-fledged employment in the systematization envisaged. So in the end, let me say if we need to change the law and in six months we'll back it up again, but we need to make it a point to finally move on to action and show in this part of public procurement the seriousness and intention to be with non-transparency and corruption of the account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13736	Thank you. Does the government's representative want to say final? Yeah. Dear Tamara Obradović-Mazal, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13737	Here, thank you, Mr. Vice President. In the shortest possible lines, thank you for very broad support and for identifying the real quality steps in this draft bill. We'll make them even better in the second reading. We will also consider the possibility of cutting deadlines to the value thresholds of the European Union. Unfortunately, we can't cut that 52-day deadline. He was literally taken over from the directive as well as a 10-day deadline related to the appeal. As for moving from word to deed, we have initiated a quadrilateral agreement with the state audit, USKOK, MUP and the State Attorney's Office because we realized that after the State Audit report, we definitely need to take further steps so that here we are as far as we can go from word to action, and the supervision of public procurement procedures in my ministry's management this year to 1.7 has exceeded the number of controls over the past few years. This if nothing else demonstrates a great desire and determination to exercise control over public procurement procedures. In any case, as I said, thank you for identifying and supporting this positive. I note everything we propose to amend and supplement after the first 7 months of application of the new law does not cause tectonic disturbances to the contracting authorities and tenderers. However, they were welcomed with a considerable relief, and the light motive for the future will be the proposal for a law on public procurement without breaking provisions, but it will, of course, be a procedure that will require a broad support that does happen. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13738	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13739	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 125 The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusions: "1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act, 2. All objections, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." Please, let's get on with it. Let's vote. The result? The conclusions were accepted mostly by 124 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 2 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13740	We'll vote when we get the terms and we're done with point 3. We move to point 4. : - Final bill on construction products, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 118 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was held: the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction and the Committee on Environmental Protection. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to discuss the proposal further? Yeah. Here you go. Dear Davor Mrduljas, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13741	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of MPs and counsellors. There's the Construction Products Act before you. I'm going to give a brief presentation of this law and what it serves us. As you know in October last year, the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction has entered into force, starting with a reform of the existing Croatian system of spatial planning and construction. This law was put outside the scope of the Construction Act between the two of them and the Construction Act other than the provisions of that Construction Act. These are the National Journals 175/03 and 100/04, which have regulated the issue of construction products until the entry into force of a special law that will settle these issues and that is now this law that is before you. In short, the Construction Act has, until then, replaced the existing quality control system of construction products completely with the construction product production control system in line with the guidelines for construction products 89-106-EEC and thus created conditions for removing technical and administrative barriers to the placement of Croatian goods and services on the European Union market, while ensuring adequate safety of construction products. However, the law did not fully accept all the directives. It did not resolve the elements of the communication of the Republic of Croatia and the European Union in matters related to construction products on the common market. The issue of use in the Republic of Croatia of documents relevant for the usability of construction products at European Union level has not been resolved, nor in a clear and clear way has the issue been resolved between the Republic of Croatia and the Member States of the European Union regarding the freedom of movement of construction products produced according to harmonised European specifications. This law therefore fully regulates this issue, and in the section relating to, which regulates the issue of construction products, it should be said that these construction products and their specifications, technical permits, certificates and similar set-ups that are issued for these products are always linked to essential building requirements. This is those 6 essential requirements set out through the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, or in the section relating to construction. Essential requirements are developed by technical regulations and specifications and further we have construction products that are operated according to these specific permits and norms. Therefore, this law regulates the technical properties of construction products, their usability, regulates the Institute of Technical Authorisation. Now we have two technical permits. One is a European technical permit. This is a permit for these products and for communication at European Union level. These are products that receive a common European technical authorisation for the whole of the European Union and remain one part of the product where we will issue a Croatian, domestic technical authorisation where, where each country has one. These are products which are of value in certain countries and are not designated for them, an agreement is reached or similar that they will be used as such at European Union level. In addition, the conformity assessment procedure of the product shall be regulated. The question of a document on the conformity of persons who issue those documents shall be settled, actions that precede it. Furthermore, the issue of technical instructions and markings, compliance. The transitional provisions regulate the validity of documents and markings issued under foreign regulations for different products and the issue of these technical instructions for each product. And it is important to say that the supervision of the implementation of this law is carried out by two inspections. Most of the supervision of this law is carried out by the State Inspectorate and for construction products since their placing on the market, or imports. So, production, marketing and distribution is within the jurisdiction of the State Inspectorate, and when that construction product comes to the site it passes into the jurisdiction of the building inspection which controls both its installation and its correctness when it is installed. Of course, the law also gave criminal provisions for the infringement of authorised legal and other persons, producers, authorised representatives, importers and distributors, contractors and other persons involved in the process of issuing conformity and installation of these construction products. In this way and this law will be fully regulated and harmonised with the directives of the European Union, the area of construction products and thus close a certain whole when it comes to regulating the issues of construction in the Republic of Croatia. Here, it's in the shortest lines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13742	Thank you. Do you want representatives? The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. That's very important to mention. And will the committee's reporters take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate and it's a club debate first. On behalf of the SDP club, the esteemed representative, Mirela Holy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13743	Thank you, Vice President. At the very beginning of this presentation on the Construction Products Act, I would like to stress that the SDP Representatives' Club will support the adoption of this law, which will support the adoption of this legislation, namely the technical characteristics of construction products, the assessment of conformity, the demonstration of usability, and the conditions for the marketing of distribution and use of construction products, to the extent necessary to meet the essential requirements for construction to an even greater extent, are in line with the legal acquis of the European Union. Despite some failures in the SDP, we assess this law positively, and we express hope that the motioner will respect some of our remarks to make this law even better, and not only in line with the vertical but also horizontal legislation of the Republic of Croatia. This refers specifically to the compliance and respect of the gender-sensitive language which is an obligation arising from an organic law, the Law on Gender Equality, is therefore unacceptable in Article 5 of the Law which directly delegates the provisions of the Law on Gender Equality which obliges the authorities of the State Administration to respect the natively sensitive language. Although the proposer was likely to be nervous to use in the text of gender expression leaving such a text would seriously compromise the meaning of the Law on Gender Equality. We are afraid that the adoption of this article would be a dangerous precedent, i.e. that it could be very easy for the promoters and authors and other documents of the public authorities to decide that it is unnecessary to torture themselves using a natively sensitive language even though it is a very important instrument for the actual repression of discrimination and inequality of women in Croatian society. We hope that this hasty article of the law will be cast out or changed so that not all of us will start using such a formula that one move washes the expressions used for persons of male origin automatically declares neutral, or defines that they refer to both male and female persons. Article 9 of the Law is also insufficiently precise, which states that the rules governing labour protection issues cannot lay down measures relating to the protection of workers or workers when handling or using construction products which would affect the technical characteristics of the construction product. Does this mean that we must ignore the safety of workers, or workers, so that in order to carry out the protection of workers and workers, we would not have a negative impact on certain technical characteristics of the product. We believe that with the protection of human life and health, we must not bid ourselves in this way, because it can open up the possibility of abuse of protection provisions at work by the employer or employers who can find an alibi in this article for their unconscious business. Articles 23 and 25 and 38 give very high powers to the competent minister or to the competent minister, i.e. the possibility of making discretionary decisions because of insufficient unsatisfactory in terms of monitoring the conduct of such or such, competent or competent officials or officials. Such insufficient normivity may result in the abuse of the Minister or the Minister in terms of granting or withdrawing the power to adopt a Croatian or European technical authorisation. In addition, the law is rather vague in terms of the terminology contained in the provisions themselves. This law should regulate and ensure the conditions for placing construction products on the market so that transport is free on the internal market of the Union. However, it is not specified from the law other than the procedure for the exercise of authority which could cause chaos in this sector. The law should be operational in such a way as to create opportunities and conditions for construction products that cannot meet the conditions fully sought, i.e. harmonised technical specifications. That's not the case in law. We believe that the provisions on violations and penalties that are locally confusing should be better regulated and transitional and final provisions are not well dealt with if they seek to clearly define the current procedures and procedures that will have to be implemented under this law. Experts in this area warn that the concepts are not uniformly defined, that the jurisdiction of individual bodies is not defined, and that the role and supervision of the construction inspection is very unclear. It is therefore the impression that in the law too much counts for some kind of self-conceivability which, of course, should not be in any law. These are the remarks the SDP Representatives Club has on the proposal for the text of this law. However, given that this law is a umbilical cord related to the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, I will take advantage of this opportunity to warn of the difficulties which many small or smaller investors have in the course of the construction permits in accordance with the provisions of last year's law, a law that has united the previously separate Law on Spatial Planning and a separate Construction Act. As the Proposer in the opening section explained to us this law, and it is precisely because the unification of these laws put the separate Construction Act out of force, and the new uniform law does not cover the provisions relating to the problem of construction products. A year is relatively short, but during that period it has proved that the new united law has some weaknesses. It should certainly mention the obligation to build a nine-metre access road by investors of buildings, which in large numbers makes it impossible to access the permit. I would also warn that the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction, which was developed by the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, and which is required to implement this law, does not just do so. The Law on Spatial Planning entered into force on 1 October 2007, although it is absurd because of the eclad conflict of interest that spatial planning whose purpose is to preserve space as an extremely valuable resource and to build whose interest the exploitation of space is covered and regulated by the same law, I stress that the competent ministry is not even able to implement the law itself. In the transitional and final provisions of the law cited in Article 338, I quote "the minister will appoint the interim director of the institute within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this law". The deadline expired on 31 October 2007, and the interim director has not yet been appointed. Furthermore, in the same article, I quote "the minister will appoint the president and members of the board of directors within 60 days of the date of entry into force of this law, and within 30 days, the administrative board of the institutions will adopt the statutes of the institution." And that deadline expired on 30 November 2007, and the deadline for the adoption of the statutes on 31 December 2007, and until now the administrative council has not been appointed and the statutes have not been adopted. In the same article of the law, I quote "the administrative board of the institutions is obliged to call a public tender for the selection of directors of the institute within 6 months of the date of their appointment", or until 30 May 2008, which is also not done and due to the failure of the previous provisions of the law. In Article 340 of the same Act, the Government is obliged to comply with the internal organisation regulation of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction with the provisions of this Act within 30 days of the day of the termination of work of the Office for Physical Planning within the Ministry, the Minister shall comply with the Regulation on the Internal Order of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction with the Regulation referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article within 15 days from the date of entry into force of that Regulation. None of the above has been done, or so far nothing has been done to establish the Office, no interim director or administrative board has been appointed, and staff of the Office for Spatial Planning of the Competent Ministry have been included in the drafting of the law at all. In the SDP club, we hope that the Law on Construction Products will not become a document half-implemented, and not in the way that it corresponds to the Ministry of Environmental Protection, as is unfortunately the case with the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, the roof law in this sector. Given the numerous objections and problems this roof law has caused in practice, we hope that the government will soon refer to the parliamentary procedure amendments and additions to last year's voted Law on Spatial Planning and Construction in order to bring its content into line with the state and situation in Croatia and to ensure that quality is leveled with the Construction Products Act that we are discussing today. The basic objectives of the adoption of laws in this area must certainly be protection and prudent management or management of space as our most valuable resource, the transition to quality and possibly sustainable construction, which in practice is not exactly commendable, and the simplification of the permitting process in order to avoid the occurrence of these illegal constructions, which, unfortunately, would have to be done by building inspection at last and what is real work for it, that is, to control the quality of construction, rather than hunting for illegal builders, which, unfortunately, has to be done for years. This law will not be able to change it on its own, so we appeal to amend the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13744	Thank you. Honorable representative Jerko Roshin on behalf of the HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13745	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Construction Products Act should be seen as part of the system of laws and sublegal acts which allow the transposition of the European Construction Products Directive into the Croatian legal system. Here we are primarily talking about the new Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, whose adoption in 2007 also provides for the adoption of this special law, which will regulate the issue of construction products, with a view to its adoption in the light of the remaining provisions of the Construction Act relating to construction products. The law which is before us replaces those provisions of the Construction Act and addresses all issues relating to construction products fully and in a way and in the Member States of the European Union. It should not in particular point out which role this will play in equating the conditions of design and construction in Croatia with regard to the European Union, as it does not need to be pointed out in particular, which means removing technical and administrative barriers to the placement of domestic goods and services on the European Union market for domestic products and services. Of course, it is of particular importance to ensure appropriate transitional periods. Furthermore, it is noteworthy that the need to adopt this law, namely to regulate and clearly define the conditions for the marketing of distribution and use of construction products, stems from the very meaning of construction products and the fact that their technical properties and usability are an important prerequisite for meeting essential requirements for construction from its mechanical resilience and stability, security in the use of noise protection, energy savings and heat protection, etc. In this respect, it is important to highlight the importance of the adoption of sublegislative acts, primarily technical regulations, which are developed, in accordance with the principles of European harmonisation of technical legislation, and to determine the essential requirements for construction and technical properties that must have construction products. For the adoption and application of technical regulations, it is also necessary to adopt Croatian norms, translate euro codes and so on. So, it is a complex and expensive process that includes the engagement of Croatian businessmen, along with the involvement of the ministry. The Institute for Standards of Croatian Chambers of Architects and Engineers in Construction and the like, but which will ultimately provide and result in adequate safety and quality of construction products and open a common European market to the domestic construction industry. Of course we support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13746	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13747	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. The European Commission has announced in recent days that through the adoption of the common technical language it wants to remove any remaining regulatory and technical obstacles that still hampers the free flow of construction products on the common market of the European Union. In Brussels, they decided to replace the Directive on construction products with a new regulation in order to introduce the new technical terminology necessary to express the implementing characteristics of all these products. The new language consists mostly of harmonised standards and European technical assessments that will replace the relevant technical specifications from individual members of the European Union and ensure greater transparency of the market for users such as designers and builders. Thus, architects will find reliable information on the characteristics of the products they intend to use, which means that they will be able to take responsibility for the safety of construction projects in accordance with the relevant regulations of individual countries. The construction sector produces 15% of the total new value in the European Union's industrial production, while its share in intra-European trade is only 5%, which means it is less open to trade to other industrial sectors. Construction products include more than 40 categories such as thermal insulation, cement, roof and brick products. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party will support the Law on Construction Products as this law regulates technical properties, conformity assessment, proof of the applicability of construction products as a condition for their placing on the market, distribution and use to the extent necessary to meet the essential requirements for the construction of certain Law on spatial planning and construction, technical regulations and harmonised European specifications. Furthermore, this law lays down clearly what persons issuing conformity documents and what actions preceding the issue of a conformity document are. The supervision of law enforcement in terms of administrative and inspection supervision will be carried out by the State Inspectorate and the Construction Inspectorate, and criminal provisions order infringements of authorised legal and other persons, producers, importers and distributors of the construction product. The adoption of the Law on Construction Products will be fully regulated and in a way as well as in the Member States of the European Union, so that on the day of accession to the European Union, it will all go painlessly for our builders and for whatever reason our legislation will already be fully in line with theirs. What may be interesting to say and what we can often follow in public especially in some poor countries where just bad construction and bad material is brought about in connection with people's sufferings when an elemental accident occurs, especially earthquakes and the fact that earthquakes reveal the execution of neglect of construction regulations and fast profit building, and many in Croatia are wondering how safe the facilities they live in are and who actually checks it. Although, of course, there are no special guarantees, citizens in Croatia can be sure of the execution of a residential building on the basis of an established building permit and provided, of course, that the builder adhered to the provisions in that correction. The building permit is based, among other things, on a major project containing geotechnical elaborate. In this respect, particular attention should be paid to the quality of the static budget, for which the project’s main contractor assumes by signing the responsibility. It is interesting, for example, to say that in the town of Split, which was founded 1700 years ago, no more serious earthquake occurred, which of course should be thanked for the deposits of lapora, sandstone, sesmologically beneficial breče. Of course, by respecting all the rules on the construction of Split, it would only endanger an earthquake greater than 8 degrees Richter's scale. In its environment, the biggest earthquake occurred in 1923 at Sibenik by 7 degrees and 1898 at Trilj with 6.6 degrees per Richter. A little more, the Splits were scared after the 1962 earthquake with an epicenter at Biokova's 6.1 per Richter that caused more destruction in the Makarska area. In short, it turns out that the Splits can continue to sleep peacefully and thank Roman Emperor Diocletian, who built a palace from which the city developed, while with Dubrovnik there is a much different situation, or much worse situation, and in its history, Dubrovnik records more than a thousand earthquakes. As the strongest remembers, in 79, 9-10 degrees by Mercali, after which, until the Homeland War, there was a seismic recovery of the city itself. Of course, it is important for the use of material itself to lead it to be natural materials that correspond to the ambience, and on this very trail are those who have restored the buildings in the city of Dubrovnik, and the biggest problem was with old buildings, they have been urged to use newer experiences that are even cheaper, and the monumental architecture remains preserved. But we can say that construction is often treated as a purely economic process, and in fact it is primarily an ecological and social and cultural phenomenon that needs to meet human needs and aspirations. It is fundamentally economical that the construction industry provides building promoters with better quality and value for money. More important than this economic aspect and the task of balancing the market economy and environmental, social and cultural values is to improve the quality of our built environment for the benefit of all citizens and society as a whole. So we can say that today we need quality construction more than ever before, and of course our country is asking for it in full, that this requires both economic competitiveness and all people who want to live healthy and carefreely in their apartments and houses. In today's consumer society with disposable products that are missing almost everything at the same time, we urgently need good and sustainable architecture, without it the world will have more and more industrialized vast, anonymous, pre-named, ugly, well built horrors like those that are already largely surrounding us. What we certainly stand for in the HSS Club is that local materials of cultural importance are promoted on the market, which will certainly result in diversity and reduction of environmental costs. Also to ensure exclusively competent persons who carry out public-interest construction tasks, even where the market for design services is not fully regulated and, of course, we advocate to provide used material that will meet the principles of sustainability, careful availability of resources, possible recycling and life cycles of material. The Croatian Peasant Party Representatives' Club will support the proposal for a law on construction products. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13748	Thank you. And on behalf of the HNS Club, the esteemed representative, Željko Vincelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13749	Dear Mr. Vice President, representative of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Freedom of movement of goods, freedom of movement of people and services and freedom of movement of capital are fundamental pillars on which the European Union rests and Croatia must adapt. The reform of the Croatian construction system as an integral part of European freedom of movement of goods began last year with the adoption of the Construction Act, which entered into force on 1 October. It creates the basis for the establishment of a construction product control system in accordance with the European Directive on this area. The construction law gave the basis for establishing a system of control of construction products, but not all the necessary rules of conduct on the common European market. The freedom of movement of goods in the field of construction applies to construction products which, although manufactured in one of the Member States of the European Union, must be such that they can be incorporated into another Member State. Of course, this process cannot be without a problem because other requirements must be applied in that other country, and there are differences in the knowledge and skills of the building material. The Construction Products Directive, which Member States of the European Union address problems in the field of construction products, sets out essential requirements for building equal for all Member States and usable construction products as products with such properties that ensure that the building meets essential requirements, and assumes the proper installation of the construction product. The fulfilment of these provisions ensures that the usable construction product in all Member States equally serves to meet essential requirements. According to the European Construction Products Directive, 6 are essential areas where coherence and special care are needed, mechanical resilience and stability, fire safety, hygiene, health and the environment, safety in use, noise protection, energy efficiency. Since Member States of the European Union have made demands that construction products must comply with their construction legislation, they have no major problems in accepting such harmonised products in their buildings. For countries in transition such as the Republic of Croatia, the problems are certainly bigger and they do not end with this law, which we implement in the area of construction in the European Construction Products Directive because this harmonisation includes a series of sublegal acts and norms that regulate the area of construction. We want to believe that the Ministry of Environment, Spatial Planning and Construction understands the size and importance of the problem, and that, accordingly, it will include those whose business results and future depend on how the system will be arranged and at what speed it will change. These are manufacturers of construction products and contractors of buildings, design houses, legal entities authorised to verify the quality, i.e. the conformity of construction products, and other resolution ministries. The construction product may appear and be used on the European market only if its usability has been demonstrated and has adequate technical guidance. By marking the construction product, the manufacturer, agent or importer of the construction product shall assume responsibility for having technical characteristics declared with a significant product. The conformity assessment process implies a series of continuous actions by the manufacturer. Initial testing of the type of construction product, initial control of the production plant, continuous control, evaluation and confirmation of internal production control, testing of random samples taken from production and the product group prepared for delivery. The manufacturer is obliged to establish an internal production control system with all the necessary tests by type and frequency, it is obliged to publish product characteristics and issue a declaration of conformity with the product, and since the implementation of the conformity assessment procedure shall establish that the product can be placed on the market and used for construction. The problems most often encountered by the domestic market producer are the lack of an internal production control system. Manufacturers from the European market have established internal production control systems and are in a comparative advantage compared to unprepared domestic producers. In order for the whole system to function successfully, the important element of its implementation is the issue of supervision in three areas. Supervisory of legal persons authorised for conformity assessment and certification tasks carried out by the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction, market surveillance carried out by the State Inspectorate, surveillance at the site carried out by the building inspectors. All employees from all three areas of surveillance require education for this work. The specific theme is to monitor the proper selection of construction products in the context of the main construction project to be implemented during the process of issuing a building permit. The process of education must not bypass all those involved in the process. Therefore, dispersion of the responsibilities of participants in the process of uniform European standards of construction products is broad, particularly large in the bodies of the authorities that need to adequately regulate national building technical regulations based on six essential requirements under the European Directive, professionally train responsible persons to issue building permits, professionally train construction inspection for construction sites and train the state inspectorate for continuous market surveillance. The market for construction products will not be adequately regulated if the designers also do not determine the use of usable products marked by the conformity mark. Of course, responsibility is, but above all, business necessity and interest because otherwise the market failure and the construction product manufacturers will supply the market with products with a sign of conformity. It is ultimately also the responsibility of the performers to include the products designed for a specific purpose on the market. Therefore, it is a complex and demanding process that requires the mobilisation of a large number of institutions and persons who are in any way professionally connected to construction. All of them work in the interests of consumers who should have to use the building with a built-in solid, secure, harmless and economic construction product. In the belief that our adoption of this law will contribute to the rapid adjustment of Croatia and the rapid benefit of citizens from this process, the Croatian People's Party Club will support the adoption of the Law on Construction Products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13750	Thank you. And to an individual debate, Honorary Representative Miroslav Škoro. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13751	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is ungrateful to discuss after the fact that representatives of all clubs have already declared that they will accept and support this law, regardless of just a few words. This issue, which will bring our legislation into line with European legislation, has been regulated by the Council of Europe's Directive of 21 December 1988 and defines the construction product as any other thing which is independent of the way it is produced and the degree of processing intended for permanent installation in construction. The objective was to further standardise and improve efforts in the field of construction industry to protect the safety of human and domestic animals and property, so that organised construction products not only improve the safety of buildings, but also contribute to and protect the health, sustainability of the facility, energy efficiency, environmental protection, economic and other aspects of public interest. The adoption of the Construction Products Act will be fully governed by all issues relating to construction products as well as in the Member States of the European Union. This will ensure at the time of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, without the adoption of new regulations or amendments to the complementarity of the existing freedom of movement in the common European markets of construction products produced according to harmonised European specifications and providing certain services in this connection. However, issues related to construction products which are not produced according to harmonised European classifications will continue to be subject to national regulation as in the Member States of the European Union and will be able to move on the domestic, common European market and foreign markets under conditions as they are today. Well, I'll also like all clubs to support law-making. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13752	Thank you. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Yeah. Dear Davor Mrduljas, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13753	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, Vice President, MPs and MPs. I'd like to thank you for your discussion and discussion of this law. It would only briefly refer to certain comments. It is not true that this law does not regulate the issue of building inspection, it regulates it, in fact it is already arranged when it comes to construction products through the Law on Spatial Planning in Construction and Work related to construction and supervision of construction inspection. This law only regulated the part of the State Inspectorate's conduct when the product is placed on the market and its distribution, and the law has a reference norm that refers to the construction law when it comes to the installation of construction products. That is how this law should be seen as a whole with the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction. As far as training our people's knowledge is concerned, there will be no problem. There are already some 2002s, when we have prescribed the obligation of professional training of people passing the courses of authorised institutions and institutions performing those professional trainings, related to this Regulation on professional examinations of works in construction, there is a special expert exam and there is a belief that a professional examination has been passed on to work on conformity assessment operations and related to the construction product. So in addition to the job of designing, building, expert supervision, people who are interested in working on the quality of construction products are obliged to take a professional examination of this and thus receive a certain guarantee that these tasks can be carried out. We are mostly prepared, a lot of legal persons in Croatia have already been authorised under the earlier law to conduct testing of construction products, and a number of technical regulations have been adopted. There were also certain objections to the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, which was adopted last year and which came into force last year. I don't want to talk about it right now, but I'd just like to talk about one fact. Word is he's inadmissible. That's not true. We and through administrative supervision since the decentralised issue of permits and through giving opinions and instructions to the ministry that are all on the Ministry's Web, therefore anyone who is not clear can find anything that is not clear to him on the Ministry's website. The ministry has now made forms for certain acts such as building conditions, location permits and so on, to make it easier, easier for everyone. It's been counseling and seminars, but there's always talk here about how you can't get a license because there's got to be a journey of 9 meters wide. It doesn't say anything in the law. The law only says that it can be built on a regulated building particle, which we have all been behind this whole series of years, so now that we've got just like all Europe's arranged building particle, then it doesn't suit us and that there has to be access to the traffic surface. The width of the road access to the traffic area is not the subject of the law, but the spatial plan. Thus, each city determines to itself how wide that road must be and nowhere in the law has a number of 9 meters. If anyone finds it for me, I'm taking him to dinner. The law really doesn't have it. Therefore, there are spatial plans of municipalities and cities, the other thing is that some cities have really written nebuloses, but it's a matter of their spatial plan. So you have to say that the City of Zagreb predicted some 9m wide streets, and there are already buildings and I don't know when they'll ever be 9m wide.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13754	Dear Secretary of State, that's not the point. It's a theme. Proposal for a law on construction products. [[I'm sorry.]] You're welcome to stick to the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13755	And so there's no problem in that part we gave the instructions. Let me cut it short and finish it, I know it's not a topic. Excuse me. I said right away in the introduction that it wasn't a topic, but given some of the untrues that came out of certain discussions, that should have been warned. On this draft law, the amendments were given by the Legislative Committee, which are purely nomotechnical and we fully accept all of these articles for which the Committee has given amendments. Here, thank you very much, and I hope that we will take this law one more step closer and closer to the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13756	Thank you. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met, and that's probably Tuesday. That's when we finished point four.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13757	We move to the Final Proposal of the Construction Products Act, it is an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 118. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. The proposer accepted the amendment committees at the meeting and they become an integral part of the final draft law and are not voted on. I am voting on the final proposal of the Construction Products Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. ... About construction products, P.Z.E. 118. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please, let's vote. The result? The law was passed by a majority of votes, 125 votes for, 4 abstentions and one against, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13758	We move to point 5, which is: - Final bill on election of members to the European Parliament, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 123 So I'm warning you it's not an emergency procedure, it's the first reading. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. By letter dated 10 July, the government gave up the emergency procedure and the debate on this item of the agenda will be conducted in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Antun Palaric, State Secretary of the Central State Administration Office. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13759	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Croatian voters, Croatian citizens will soon elect their representatives to the European Parliament, so the government has proposed a law that will settle this issue of exceptional importance for the participation of Croatian representatives in the body that creates a common European policy. However, this will not happen tomorrow, so the government wants the law to be as high-quality as possible and proposes, although this is undoubtedly European law and according to Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the government wants the law to be thoroughly discussed, to be acceptable to everyone and to be adopted in the Croatian Parliament, I believe by consensus that the law contains such solutions that mean a major step in the democratisation of society. I will stress only that, those important provisions that are respected by other electoral laws, because we in Croatia have good electoral laws, we have good electoral practice and a good electoral administration. Therefore, this is still just an upgrade of the system, and that is not what I am saying, but that is what international observers who have watched among other things and these last parliamentary elections say. So, besides Croatian citizens, Croatian citizens from 18 years of age can participate in the elections, citizens of the European Union countries, but in a way that they can choose whether to participate as candidates and as voters for Croatian representatives or for their countries in which the country is domicile, provided that they have permanent residence in the Republic of Croatia. The special feature of this law is that the entire Republic is one electoral unit, so that it can count on a list that received at least 5% of the votes in force. The number of mandates will be set by accession agreement. We're hoping it'll be thirteen, but we don't know yet. In addition to voting for the list, the Croatian voter has an additional right to vote so that he can also give the preferred vote to the candidate on the list and then will not determine who will be in line for the championship, but the voters will be elected directly in the elections by rounding the number in front of each candidate and, of course, determine in front of the list which candidate will be elected to the European Parliament. Of course, only a significant number of preferred votes will be respected. According to our proposal, it's more than 10% of those votes she received from the list. A transitional period is important because elections for the European Parliament will be held next year. Unfortunately, we will not be able to participate at that time, we will participate in a year, two later, but at the time of the signing of the accession agreement Croatia has the right to observers in the total number of MPs and these observers will be elected by the Assembly, the Assembly will elect them relatively party representations and they will be able to perform the duties of representatives in the Croatian Parliament at the same time as observers in the European Parliament until the last Member State of the European Union has ratified the agreement. After that, these observers become representatives. At that moment, elements of incompatibility appear with the same duty as ours in the Croatian Parliament. He's going to have to identify who's going to be acting on him. Since the law goes to first reading, we will carefully examine all the comments and suggestions that are being made today and prepare for second reading a more quality final bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13760	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Dear Mimica on behalf of the European Integration Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13761	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President. At its 12th session of July, the Committee on European Integration discussed the proposal for this law and did so as an interested working body. In the debate held by individual committee members, they warned of the unsuitable term of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union used in the draft law. It is, in turn, correct to talk about the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union by the Accession Treaty signed with the Member States of the European Union on how the members of the Committee have made themselves known. It is also held that it is problematic that the right to vote and vote in the European Parliament also has citizens of the Republic of Croatia who, in addition to Croatian citizenship, have the nationality of non-member states of the European Union, who reside in those Member States and who cannot therefore be real representatives in deciding on the issues of the European Union. The European Integration Committee did not take a position after the vote. Four votes were for, three against, and one was abstention. It therefore did not take a view on the consistency of the final draft law on the election of members in the European Parliament with the acquis of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13762	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. We're going to a club debate. The first is the club IDS, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13763	Honorable Vice President, Secretary of State, Honorable Mr. Representatives. So I agree with the secretary of state that Croatia has one relatively let's say such a good electoral system. We have those ten constituency units plus we have the diaspora one. That model wasn't bad. Come on, you proved yourself good, in this diaspora election unit to talk to. But in general, this electoral system has shown one stability, one representation of all sides, has enabled one multi-party in this Parliament and that is what is certainly good. It is clear that IDS would be the happiest to have representatives elected directly. If it were in action, then we'd see whose mother I like to say black rune over. Today, on the other hand, I spoke to Rosic a little earlier, the only real MPs, no matter what they may have, let's say I'm going to have a questionable legitimacy are minority representatives. When Memedi goes to some village he with his $350,000 budget as he gets a year can buy for children 20, 30 chocolates, for women of every one candy, for fathers something else and now 50 or 60 or 100 people know that they can get something from that national minority representative. I just can't give them anything like you can't give them except when the election is some kind of chemical or some kind of pendant. But now let's let it go for these minorities, even though I'm going to say that this perfidual game that was with the number of minorities in parliament cost the 3rd January administration dearly. Instead of giving them the double right to vote then, we traded with mandates, we raised the figure of five to eight, thinking that this way we would cancel the votes or mandates of the parliamentarians from the diaspora and then it happened to us that all of them had run over to HDZ and would not return to the opposition unless the opposition had declared HDZ in some subsequent elections. But let's let it go now. I repeat again, IDS advocates direct elections. We think it's the most honest model and the minorities have five mandates. As far as this law is concerned, which is here before us, the IDS is for this law when it comes to elections for the European Parliament. True, Croatia was divided into ten electoral units plus this diaspora constituency. One is always to be discussed, but when the 13 mandates are chosen, the IDS advocates a single constituency, clearly provided that this preferential vote is maintained. That's the point, so the citizen can vote for the list, but he can also vote for the MP. How it'll be in future elections we'll see about that. It'll always be what it's gonna be, it's always been that it was somehow. I want to believe she's gonna be okay. The European Parliament today has 732 MPs. In exceptional circumstances they say the upper limit can be 736. The powers I dare say are quite narrowed down, dealing with some of the legislation of the European Union, overseeing the commission. They're as normal as we are with this budget. As much as they actually have all these influences, I dare say incomparably less than our Parliament has. It is certain that these elections for the European Parliament will be interesting elections. If it'll just pass the HDZ, the SDP will see that. I don't think so. It solves that preferential voice. I think those who think the battle for the president of the country is already won or lost are wrong. I think Croatia needs a president like Mesic again. After Mesic someone who will be like Mesic. It'll be good if HDZ doesn't win the election so they don't get an appologite, I don't know, Sanader. It's a good thing someone else doesn't get the election. It is good for the president of the state to be most similar to the Croatian citizens. Every election is a game, it's like a tennis game. You're playing till the last break, we watched this on Wimbeldon Federer, Nadal and this law It's kind of similar, and this law... [[/Intruder: Dear Representative, hold on, Your Honor.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13764	Your Honor, Your Honor, I want you to stick to the subject. So you're charming from the black sheep to the President of the Republic, and we're talking about the Law on Elections of Members of the European Parliament. Please stick to this one of yours, stick to yours, all this daytime... /The speaker is off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13765	... Every election like a tennis game, the one where we fight until the last break. [[The speaker was subsequently turned on.]] And I think this model will sort of set some standards, too. There won't be much knowledge in the party anymore. There won't be much friendship anymore. There's no more affection and so forth. I don't think what's in front of us is to ignore. Clearly, if we were to choose and have the opportunity to choose 30 mandates for the European Parliament, then Croatia should be divided into 10 constituencies. This is how I think this is the only possible solution. This law I kind of see that, in a way, everyone will fight everyone. There will hardly be a coalition here. In the election, everyone will go alone. It is clear that Croatia's problems will not solve both Europe and this electoral model or representatives who will be sitting in Brussels or Strasbourg the next day. Our problems clearly need to be solved on our own and so clearly no one will ever be able to bypass or marginalise the role of the Croatian Parliament. The elections for the Parliament were, for this Parliament, the central, the main, the most important elections for Europe. It is clear that these elections that are ahead of us for the European Parliament will also be important elections. Far from not being, but it will always be just elections for the European Parliament in which Croatia will have 13 mandates of 732 or 736 as many as it can be. It will be elections in which Croatia will have 2% of the impact and elections in which the main levers will continue when we talk about the European Parliament will be reserved for those rich and numerous countries. But surely these elections are important to legitimise the country as a single European country. And what can I say? I still wanted to say something, but so I don't cut my sheep like he threw it at me, so I don't go from white to black on it I'll stop and IDS will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13766	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club, the esteemed Vesna Pusic. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. And with these wools, I was completely confused by this Caine. He is the first respected representative, Josip Friscic. Here you go. Vice President of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13767	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. I want to correct the quote of the distinguished colleague Cain who here said that the only real representatives in this House are minority representatives. It certainly is not because the role of our MPs is not to share chocolates, beer crates or anything else in the villages but to pass laws. I'm sorry that he's looking at it that way which is one of the ones who spent most years in these benches but I certainly don't agree that only if we get at the disposal of 300 grand and chocolate so that we can justify our role as MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13768	Thank you. ... Don't throw it away! [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And the correction of an incorrect quote by the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13769	Thank you very much. I am correcting co-worker Cain's allegations that the question of whether the European Parliament's parliamentary elections will win HDZ or SDP's mandates will be decided by the preferred vote. This is entirely incorrect because voters will be able to vote favorably on the list they voted for. If by mistake the preferred vote to the other list does not count, and only the valid vote remains for that list. So the preferred vote between competing party lists in the election does not decide overall on the result of the election.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13770	Thank you. An example of a good correction and one and another representative. We're moving on to a club debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, distinguished representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13771	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the HNS Club, I am pleased to have this bill on the agenda. It means that we are still approaching the moment when we see this event regulated by this law, which is elections for the European Parliament or in the final articles, the way we choose or appoint observers that we will be able to send to the European Parliament after we end negotiations and before our accession agreement is ratified. That's certainly good, and I think it's also, that it's not excessively optimistic. I think, of course, nothing is guaranteed but that our chances are good that the actual and this job is finished and in this Parliament we are in a position to send observers to the European Parliament as we have always said. It is important that we sit behind a table that is decided largely on both our own fates and on projects that will be implemented at the level of Europe and the whole of the European Union. I also think it is good that the law is in the first reading because it is an important law, I would say in some way about the next step of building a state, to one extent and completing the construction of a state, and it is important that what this Parliament has to say on the proposal of this law is taken into account and included in the final version of the bill and then in the law itself when we vote it in Parliament. And I also think that it is important that the note that I think the Secretary of State said that it would be very good for us to pass this law by consensus, which, of course, would mean that this law is in its final version, to adopt such a form that we can reach it by consensus in this House. The project "Croatia" as a European country is not only geographically, but it is also a political project for all political factors in this country, and in this sense it is of course important that this law that regulates how Croatia will be represented there and presented that it is important for this Parliament to be adopted by consensus. A few remarks and remarks on the content itself. Namely, this law regulates who has or is governed by this bill, once the law is regulated, who has the right to elect Croatian MPs to the European Parliament and also who has the right to run for office in the European Parliament. This is where we face a problem that we have discussed a lot and discussed for years when it comes to elections for the Croatian Parliament and legislation that regulates elections in Croatia. However, when it comes to elections for the European Parliament, this problem takes on a completely different dimension and puts us in a situation where at this moment we must be able to resolve it in a satisfactory manner. In fact, representatives in the European Parliament are elected to represent the views and interests of the Member State's citizens. Decisions related there have consequences for Member States. This law, however, proposes to follow the same model that is in place at this time for elections in the Croatian Parliament, thus predicting a single electoral unit within the model, which is logical for this type of election and the fact that Croatia will probably have 12 or 13 representatives in the European Parliament once it is regulated. However, Croatian citizens who do not have residence in the Republic of Croatia are expected to vote in these elections, as is known from the list of voters and the results of all previous elections, the largest number of Croatian citizens who do not have residence in the Republic of Croatia and are also citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, countries that are not members of the European Union and countries that will not at the moment when we have observers are safe and probably during that period when these observers become MPs. And the question whether and when we have the first real elections, therefore the general elections for the members of the European Parliament to be members of the European Union. When it comes to Croatian citizens who do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia but who have a residence in one of the Member States of the European Union there is no problem. That's no problem. It's regulated, and it's supposed to be regulated. It is regulated universally in all European Union countries in the same way. Therefore, those who have a place of residence in other European Union countries. However, when it comes to the European Parliament, the political interests of citizens who are also citizens, so to speak, and also have a permanent residence in a country not a member of the European Union are beginning to be a problem. You had a case with Poland, where Poland gave citizenship to ethnic Poles from Ukraine, who live in Ukraine but without the right to vote. So they do not vote in the European elections. Poland also had three members of the Senate who represented the diaspora that it abolished. Therefore, to be elected and elected additionally under this law could be, or could be, a person who is a citizen with the Republic of Croatia, therefore to a member of the European Union or a country that has observers and a person who is a non-member of the European Union with a permanent residence in a non-member of the European Union. This is absolutely in conflict with all the principles of the European Union and by bringing this idea to its final conjecture means that Croatia introduces to a small door another country that has not passed any procedure in presenting one segment of its political interests in the European Parliament. It's certainly by every ear and rule unsustainable. Therefore, at this point in time faced with this law, we are also faced with the problem that will arise if we ignore it in this House, we will be put in a relationship to the European Union that we, as we enter there, want to represent the political interests of non-member European Union citizens residing in non-EU. In the opinion of the HNS Club, such a model for someone who wants to become a member of the European Union is not acceptable. It potentially creates major problems for us already at this stage by introducing one such new one into the European Union which is actually unsustainable, so presenting the political interests of non-EU member in European institutions as fundamental as Parliament and the Commission is an unsustainable model. On the other hand, this problem reflects and binds to the problem of the referendum that we will have regarding Croatia's entry into the European Union. It has already been said that the referendum law will be amended, but it has been said that it will only be changed to a number, i.e. the percentage required by the voter to attend the referendum in order for the referendum to be valid. However, the second question arises, will the referendum on Croatia's entry into the European Union also include citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are also citizens of other non-members of the European Union and who are resident in non-members of the European Union? This is a question where all the work we do, all our changes and amendments to the laws that we do in this House, all the work that is done in reforms and out-of-political activities can fall into the water at that point. Obviously, there is a certain awareness of this because there is an announcement of a change, that the referendum law will be amended, but I warn that along with the numbers themselves there is also this fundamental observation. Those of you sitting in the previous assembly remember that a round table is organized in this House, under the auspices of the OSCE or the OSCE has participated in every voter list organization. During this time, British expert Meadowcroft gave a written report on the state of our voter lists. The written report says that according to domestic sources, there are about 400,000 voters in Croatia, and it estimates that the figure is closer to 900 thousand. That written report is an integral part of the Parliament's documents, and I happen to have one. Therefore, according to this assessment which has been officially requested, it is publicly presented on the round table in this House that it becomes more clear what kind of problem we are facing, this particular problem, of course, is more about the matter of the referendum, but of course it also applies to this law. Who are the people who will be elected to the European Parliament and who is choosing these people? Therefore, in this law it is necessary, and the CNS and the HNS Club will submit amendments in this direction, it is necessary to regulate elections for the European Parliament, at least in this point, so that the political interests of the European Parliament are represented only by citizens of a Member State resident in a Member State. The second point, fundamentally, seems to me to be to be changed in this second-reading law, is the question of the interspace between the election of representatives in the European Parliament before it comes to the general elections, so those representatives that we, observers who will have between the end of the negotiations and the ratification of the accession agreement in all 27 parliaments. Here it is proposed, if you let me just finish this, here it is proposed that this is chosen in proportion to the composition of parliament, and if it is chosen in proportion to the composition of parliament, given that we will have 12 or 13 representatives, at this point in the European Parliament, we would be represented only by HDZ and SDP representatives. Therefore, no other party could, as calculated by looking at the proportionate configuration of parliament, take into account. If the election results were taken into account, therefore the number of votes cast in the elections, in this case this could be extended to two more HNS lists and HSS HSLS, so the two groups would also be able to have one representative in the European Parliament. For this I will not particularly stand for on behalf of the HNS Club, I am just paying attention to that fact, depending on what we want, depending on how we want it to look and how our team works in the European Parliament will decide on one or another option. I'm just warning you that this is being taken care of in one way or another. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13772	Thank you very much. We have one application for correction of the incorrect alleged, distinguished colleague Borislav Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13773	Mr Vice-President, the distinguished colleague said the following, and I think it is not right, and then I will ask her one question, so if we can discuss this later when Croats living in Bosnia and Herzegovina are not therefore from a candidate country or from the European Union, therefore, in her own words, they should not have the right to vote for the European Parliament. Dear colleagues, I have a brother who lives on Chitluk and was born in the village of Zavojan, the town of Vrgorac where I was born. Were you the one who told him he didn't have the right to vote? He was born in a country where you and I were born, and he lives there. What would you do to him now, take away my brother's rights? Where did that come from, please? You know how many people like that are there? ... I think you have one problem, but I don't have that problem. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13774	Thank you very much. Next, a debate on behalf of the SDP club, a distinguished colleague, Neven Mimica, follows. Here you go, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13775	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Deputy Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. To welcome the fact that discussions are launched in the Croatian Parliament on how the Republic of Croatia participates in the European Union, in the institutions of the European Union. This is one of the evidence that we have already reached in our process of approaching the membership of the European Union. It is less commendable that this debate or debate on this bill is carried out. In fact, in the SDP, we have two major and important problems in general, in the taking of a general position and in the general approach to this bill. The first is the procedural nature, and the second is the constitutional nature. In this procedural part, it seems to me that it was much better, since this is about the regulation of fundamental human rights, the regulation of voting rights as one of the fundamental human rights, that it was much better to go before the bill was made and came before it came to the Parliament to go public debate, to go on including as many as possible of all those who can contribute to making this law as transparent and more systematic as possible and better to reflect the interests of all groups in Croatia, social ones. This was done only in the central office and brought before the Parliament, and at the moment we estimate that it could possibly have been even if it had been done in this way without a previous public debate, I think that it should have left much more time to discuss this law, although the subsequent government's proposal to still go in two readings certainly corrects the situation. But not today, not with two readings, I think this law could still have come to the agenda later precisely because of that constitutional problem. I am afraid, however, that we must change the Croatian Constitution before we even pass this law or before we seek solutions to elect representatives in the European Parliament. Namely, if we look at the constitutional basis on which the applicant is called, which is Article 1(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which says that the people exercise power by choosing their representatives and by direct decision. Yes, that's true, that's what the Constitution says, but the people are exercising their power in the Republic of Croatia on this same constitutional basis, according to Article 1 but the previous position is because in the Republic of Croatia the power comes from the people and belongs to the people. The whole constitution is based on electoral law for authorities in the Republic of Croatia. I therefore think that the proposer should do much more to find the right constitutional basis for this law, first on this principle of selecting the institutions of government in the Republic of Croatia, and not outside the Republic of Croatia. Because this way, if nothing else, we would admit that the European Parliament today is under today's Constitution that the government in the Republic of Croatia and Article 70. The Constitution says the Croatian Parliament is the representative body of citizens and the holder of the legislative authority in the Republic of Croatia, not the European Parliament. Therefore, the previous big debate on the so-called so-called "Second People's Republic". I would say the European package of constitutional changes is certainly needed to resolve this dilemma of the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law. This does not mean that the SDP, with or by pointing to this constitutional problem, wants to obstruct neither the adoption of this law nor the general path of Croatia into the European Union. The elections for the European Parliament have said an important act and it is certainly important in an appropriate manner to regulate them. We are for the European Union, but we are even more for the Croatian Constitution. We therefore regulate the Constitution before that there should be no dilemma that is absolutely certain about the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law. When we talk about it means other than this constitutional dilemma that we have, of course, we have a few other things I'd like to point out here today in my first reading. One refers to exactly what we have previously heard about HNS' views on how it will be regulated in our electoral legislation for the European Parliament, which will be governed by the electoral right of Croatian citizens resident outside the Republic of Croatia, and in non-member countries of the European Union. Another issue in the same assembly is the way that not only will the coverage of Croatian citizens who would vote, have the right to vote and be elected for the European Parliament, but also the way they vote, whether they are abroad in polling stations abroad or only in this electoral unit in Croatia. As far as this first issue is concerned, it is a question of whether it is Croatian citizens and with residence in non-EU countries whether or not they can vote and can be elected to the European Parliament. The SDP shall at this time have a position corresponding to Article 45. The Constitution. This article says that Croatian citizens have a general equal voting right, which means all Croatian citizens, regardless of their residence and whether they are outside or inside countries resident outside or within the Member States of the European Union. However, this issue is really being raised as a question that will probably be raised outside Croatia by the bodies of the institution or the member states of the European Union rather than what we want to potential. But since I have already said that the constitutional basis practically does not exist for us, because of the adoption of this law and the regulation of the way of voting for the European Parliament already needs to work on the amendments to the Constitution then it is our position to discuss this issue fully in the procedure of amending the Croatian Constitution. Another issue that I would stress is related to a single election unit in the Republic of Croatia to vote in the European Parliament, which is a quite acceptable solution for us, but again because non-member countries of the European Union can have problems with the vote of their citizens, and in the event that there is no agreement with the European Union on allowing voting in non-EU countries to be considered and we propose that a solution be considered which would allow Croatian citizens abroad, or Croatian citizens resident outside the European Union member states to vote in one of the European Union's polling stations in the Republic of Croatia and I say that primarily because of possible problems with solutions or with the permits of non-member countries of the European Union to hold elections in their territory for the European Parliament, for an alliance whose non-members. Furthermore, I think that in an appropriate way in this proposal, the law should decide that Croatian citizens who choose to vote or be elected in the elections in one of the other member states, not in Croatia, one of the Member States in which they are resident should also have or must be able to choose and notify the Croatian authorities where the voter is located, that voter decided to vote. This has been resolved by this law for citizens of foreign countries voting in the Republic of Croatia, but is not equally resolved for Croatian citizens who vote in the Member States of the European Union. We also believe that it is possible to consider setting a deadline until which the first elections for the European Parliament should be held, so it could be said that these elections must be held, say, six months from Croatia's accession to EU membership. It is not regulated here in this law when the elections following Croatia's accession to EU membership, when elections must be held, so it would be wise to consider also having such a deadline arranged. I would point out another fact which, unfortunately, appears to be part of Croatian legislation when it comes to Croatia's admission or accession to the European Union. We see that the Committee on Legislatives persistently and neatly corrects all the terms that speak about Croatia's accession to EU membership and transforms them into terms related to the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. I would point out that this is really not just about lecturing matters, but that they have a deep legal content, I would also say political content, i.e. they determine the political perception that Croatia is looking at in the process of its entry into EU membership. If this were Croatia's accession to EU membership, this would be a passive process in which members, existing members decide whether or not to accept Croatia without practically some more active possibility for Croatia to participate in this decision-making process. Therefore, all the contracts signed with the new members of the European Union, in whatever language you take them, are called accession contracts translated into Croatian, are accession agreements because it is an active, interactive process in which the Member State also negotiates, regulates the way and conditions of its accession to membership. Therefore, it is not about a state alliance that decides to accept a new member, but about an alliance of states that negotiate whether to expand the number of its members. Finally, I would point out even though this is not another reading, but I think it is good to point out in advance one amendment to the Legislative Committee, which is proposed to be directed to the European Parliament as observers without voting rights in Article 82 of the Law, those observers who will be from the ranks of the current representatives of the Croatian Parliament. The amendment proposes that they must put their mandate in the Croatian Parliament in a standstill and be replaced by their deputies in accordance with our Electoral Law. Firstly, it is said to be due to the special status these observers have in the European Parliament. The special status is difficult to see in our future observers, it is not a special status or as regards their impact on decision-making in the European Parliament, is not a specific status or financial status in terms of financing their observation status, is not a special status. It is only possible that a special status is in relation to the Croatian Constitution because such a solution to the mandatory stay of the observer mandate would practically mean cancellation, forced cancellation of the will of voters who chose their representatives, legitimate representatives in the Croatian Parliament and who, then because they are practically members of one of the Croatian Parliament's delegations. Observers in the European Parliament almost have lower, lower status and lower rights than our members of the delegation, for example. in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe or the Parliamentary Assembly of the OSCE. Therefore, we hold that the solution that the bill itself offers is that non-compatibility of the functions of mandatory waiver from the parliamentary mandate is not taken into account until these members become temporary members of the European Parliament, and not at the time when they become observers in the European Parliament. Here is our proposal to approach this bill in a completely different way, in a very serious way, in a comprehensive way, which would include a previous change in the Croatian Constitution because of the issue of referendum, because of the issue of allowing foreign citizens to choose and be elected in the Republic of Croatia, which is also one of the discrepancies with the current Constitution where only Croatian citizens have the right to choose and be elected in the Republic of Croatia, to join the amendments to the Constitution and for at least seven, eight other things that we will have to do to ensure the constitutional basis for Croatia's participation in membership in the European Union. Today, it could almost be said what is fundamentally and precisely that at this moment with the Constitution as it is today, that the membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union is unconstitutional. Therefore, in order for membership to become constitutional and in accordance with the Constitution, this Constitution should be changed as soon as possible, as best as possible, and then, on the basis of such a constitution, to regulate both the voting rights and the rights of active and passive voting rights of Croatian citizens in elections for the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13776	Thank you very much. Following the debate, there is a HDZ club, a respected counterpart, Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13777	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable representatives of the government, distinguished state secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club supports this bill. And the two basic reasons why this law should be supported are contained in the fact that, on the one hand, this regulation establishes legislation at national level when it comes to the way members are elected to the European Parliament, and on the other hand, the legislation of the Republic of Croatia and this area. Therefore, in this area it is in line with the acquis of the European Union, which is of course a very sensitive area, the area of exercise of the right to vote and to run in this situation for the European Parliament of the citizens of the European Union. It should also be pointed out that only the harmonisation of this law and the provisions of this law are based on the act of the representative of the European Parliament by direct decision on the basis of general voting law, not to be prescribed by that act, so the single electoral system is already left to national parliaments, but with the necessary respect for three basic conditions or preconditions. Therefore, the first system of electoral implementation must be a system of proportionate representation in a way that highlights the electoral lists or through a transmission voice system. Secondly, the electoral area can be divided into electoral units, but provided that this does not significantly affect the proportionality of the electoral system and the electoral threshold at national level that cannot be more than 5%. The law should also prescribe the procedure for exercising voting rights and candidateship for citizens of the Union, who are staying in the Republic of Croatia and who are not its citizens. The law prescribes, therefore, the authorities responsible for the conduct of the elections, the entire electoral system, so there are the state election commission, the county election committees, the City of Zagreb election commission, the municipal and city election committees, and the election committees. I think it is very important to note in terms of the debate on this law that the constitutionality and legality of the proposed legal solutions of the elections are supervised by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. All objections due to irregularities in the application procedure and in the election procedure of the members shall be submitted to the State Electoral Commission. Against the resolution of the National Election Commission, the objector shall have the right to appeal, i.e. the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. The basic characteristics of the proposed electoral process would be reduced to the following settings. Therefore, the election shall take place in a proportionate manner through a reference vote or voting method. It is voted in favour of the lists of proposed candidates, and the territory of the Republic of Croatia including polling stations outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia represents one constituency. It should also be noted that the right to compensation for the costs of electoral promotion and that all political parties who have pointed out the valid lists under the conditions laid down in the law themselves are made available from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. As far as the problems are concerned. Since it is a law in the first reading, the problems that we can, which are in the way of regulation, therefore legal regulation, active and passive voting law, so in this sense define these institutes or institutes which are related to the way of making, i.e. the verification of voters' lists, it should absolutely be supported that this should be regulated in the context of European standards, European principles, so UZUS, norms that we already have as solutions, and I do not think there is any reason to do so in the final proposal of the law, and that this relationship and citizenship in relation to the residence of the Croatian Democratic Community should be fully supported by this proposal of the European Union, the legal practice of the European Union, but, of course, in accordance with our constitutional provisions, our end line of the laws, according to everything, therefore, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community fully supports this proposal of the lawand , ofcourse , the fact that this law constitutes a very sensitive area of23 . – Justice and fundamental humanrights , ofcourse , all within the framework of the right to vote and to run for this situation for the EuropeanParliament. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, absolute support for this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13778	Thank you, fellow MP. And on behalf of the SDSS Club, distinguished colleague Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13779	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. When it comes to this SDSS law, there are a few things that we think are necessary to say, and for this reading. First of all, this law, or this bill of law, should be a reason to actually discuss what we have in the electoral legislation and what we actually have that affects the choice of representatives and representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Because the current situation is that, unfortunately, it requires serious reform. So, on the one hand, we will have with this bill of law Croatia as one electoral unit with existing electoral laws, the existing electoral laws to elect representatives for the Croatian Parliament will have 12 electoral units. On the other hand, the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government defined the territorial distribution of electoral units in the Republic of Croatia, not electoral units, but the unit of regional, or regional self-government in such a way that it does not actually agree and does not match the electoral units we have in the Republic of Croatia. And on the third hand, we have three statistical regions or a statistical area. And when we look at it all together, so that four important laws and four important components affecting whether our citizens can through election procedure get representatives who, in the right sense, will be able to represent them and represent the answer will be no. So, it is not only a question like some colleagues and colleagues rightly warn that this approach can be favoured by only large parties but it is a matter of whether it is a time when we are already deciding to adopt a law such as the one we need, but whether it is time to start seriously thinking about reforming electoral legislation and, at the same time, to reform the Law on Units of Local Administration and Self-Government and, in particular, regional self-government, because these two things simply do not guarantee that citizens will be represented in the right way, that their interests in the right sense will be presented in this House. And that is why it seems to me that the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, when it has already decided on this necessary step, should we begin to think about the fact that before the European Parliament and to ensure representation in the European Parliament there is also our obligation to think about whether the system of representation in the Croatian Parliament is best, whether the election system for the Croatian Parliament is best that we do not actually have one pretentious approach, that we want to quickly and in as short a way as possible to reach a solution for the European Parliament and that our own legislation and our own state of affairs that should ensure adequate representation and the representation of citizens in the country itself, that we put it aside and that we are not actually dealing with it. I'll do it one more time. What is our composition of election units, and what is our territorial distribution of electoral units? And who says that we MPs chosen by these constituencies can actually respond properly to our constituents. To whom the 8th constituency corresponds, to which those in the 9th constituency when the electoral units do not match the units of local self-government, when the differences between those units of local self-government are such and so large that simply one representative or group of MPs cannot adequately respond. As much as the parties are trying in a way to cover the whole area but it just doesn't work out. And that is why we at the SDSS Club think that an adequate representation of regional self-government units should be ensured, in order to ensure that the interests and opinions of citizens are represented, then a thorough reform of the country's electoral law and the reorganisation of the electoral units system in the country itself should be approached. I think this is a good cause. In other words, why would this model be good for the European Parliament and not be good for Croatia? And is this the best model for the European Parliament itself? The other thing we would like to say is, of course, the connection to the fact that there is a danger in our circumstances given the right of our citizens to choose. It may occur to us that our citizens who are also citizens of neighbouring countries are actually going to be the ones to choose for the European Parliament and can even be elected for the European Parliament unless something changes in this regard. I am talking about citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, for example, or citizens of Serbia who are also citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I think we should simply settle this thing before this law comes into force or before we decide to adopt this law. The second is the question and the second is when, in the light of the countries that are members of the European Union but, in turn, neither Bosnia and Herzegovina nor the Republic of Serbia will be members of the Union when the Republic of Croatia and there is, of course, a legitimate concern that voters of the Republic of Croatia who are also citizens of those republics could participate in the elections for the European Parliament, and even more could be elected for elections in the European Parliament. That I wouldn't want to say anything against any of the other citizens. But it is simply a question of whether it is possible, whether it is in line with European legislation. Finally, the SDSS club will certainly still consider whether the decision to be a whole of Croatia is one electoral unit that guarantees that all political components in Croatia's political life, including minority representation, are adequately represented. If you stayed with the current model, I'm afraid that wouldn't be the case. Of course, we have no objection to stimulating the grouping of political parties. We have nothing against stimulating the fragmentation of political life, but if all comes down to bipartisanism, bipartisanism, and if this process is stimulated, it is certainly not good for either party, and at least it is good for political pluralism itself and it is least good to happen in the European Parliament only with two large political groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13780	Thank you very much. The club debate is over. We're moving on to a five-minute individual debate. First, a respected colleague, Dragutin Lesar, applied. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13781	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. First, two of my principled remarks, recommendations, questions or suggestions to the promoters. First, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia lays down an active and passive voting right for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia in its Article 45. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia does not say anything about the active and passive voting rights of foreign citizens with the state of permanent residence in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, which is normal. So this conclusion requires me to have a good debate on whether we should change the Constitution before adopting such a law, because we will have to make changes to the Constitution for Croatia's entry into the European Union. And I personally think that one topic of constitutional change will have to be this. Secondly, because of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have the place of residence and citizenship of non-member states of the European Union, I recommend a good consultation with the European Commission before the law is sent to another reading, simply because I do not believe it will be possible to pass a law whereby a Member of the European Parliament can become a national of a non-EU country. And according to this law, it can happen. Under this law, this can happen, but I do not believe that such an opportunity would be allowed in the European Parliament, and I therefore think that such consultations would be necessary and necessary. As far as the proposed text of the law of Article 6(3) is concerned, I noticed that some of the applicants from the same government, the same executive authorities in the articles, numbered, marked with number 1, 2, 3, x, some not. So let's say in this example, the articles of the law are not numbered. Before we discussed it, we discussed five laws in a row that they didn't have, so it might be good to even the practice with a view to making it easier to count the items, the points, the indents and the rest. Therefore, Article 6, paragraph 3 provides that the State Election Commission of the Republic of Croatia shall inform the other European Union countries which are their citizens on the voter list in Croatia. But the State Election Commission doesn't have voting lists at the moment, they have the Central Office of State Administration. The state election committee doesn't have a voter's list at the time. Even those who deal with the electoral system in the Republic of Croatia, who have drawn my attention to this, recommend that instead of the State Election Commission here go to the Central State Office. Secondly, Article 11, paragraph 2, incompatibility of the European Parliament's duties and among other things here are listed again, are the mayors, the mayors, the mayor or the deputy mayor of Zagreb. I don't know if you know it, but it's true that incompatibility for mayors is a consequence and a mistake has been made since 2001 because until then, by that time, in the seventh month, the mayors were regional but also state officials. By amending the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, the county ceased to be part of the state administration. The mayors stopped being state officials, stopped being. But this provision remains in the Law on Elections for Parliament and is now being repeated here. I would really consider it necessary for both mayors and mayors of the municipalities to be in the same status in this country. The more some mayors have far more money, powers than some mayors. And since 2001, we have been persistently repeating one mistake that was missed at the last minute in this Chamber because it was not wanted to hear what it means to delete the status of a state official and that the county is no longer part of the state administration. And we keep repeating it, and nobody just wants to make it right. What these mayors are, they're just regional self-government. They're not government. Or everyone or nobody. If it's incompatible, the mayor must be the mayor and the mayor. If allowed, the mayor and the mayor must also be allowed. Article 20(2) of the written notice of withdrawal shall reach the National Election Commission. When, in what time? My proposal is 48 hours before the final lists are accepted because there is no deadline here so that the question of giving up and the question of the deadline must be clearly specified. Article 23(2) speaks of the obligations of public communication in monitoring the election campaign, and here it is called upon to rule on the conduct of electronic media with national concessions and since the letter "P" is in the rules of the capital letter, I assume that you were referring to those rules which apply to the parliamentary elections in the Republic of Croatia for the Assembly, so it would be good to write or state both the National Journal or otherwise but it should be specified whether these rules are or other rules will be adopted. When I link Articles 25, 26 and 27, then I ask myself why this law provides that the political parties that are to enter into force on the day of this law have representatives in the Croatian Parliament exercise the right to hunt for the European Parliament's electoral promotion, regardless of whether they will then have representatives but on the date of entry into force and at the level of the amounts they receive and now in the annual quota, and that money must be paid within 48 hours of the confirmation of the list. So before the election campaign. But the parties and independent lists that do not currently have MPs in Assembly 1. must pass the 5% electoral threshold, 2. will receive money after the elections have been completed and how much money will be decided by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. That's it. What an injustice, a political injustice we now prescribe and reserve for the political parties that will pass this law because they are in Parliament, but for all of the future, it is worth a lot of other rules of conduct in terms of the financing of the election campaign. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. "There must be at least three members of the electoral committee in the polling post. "I took a look at the instructions of the State Election Commission from December of last year. They said this three wasn't good, it wasn't enough, and the instructions said at least five. In a reminder to members of the election boards, they wrote at least five prayers and this time to correct and that's not good. They suggest at least five, not three. Article 80, paragraph 2, states that after the signing of the Croatian accession treaty in the European Union we have, we will appoint observers, a proportionate share in the assembly of the Croatian Parliament. The word does not mean anything and means everything, so it should be prescribed immediately and to which decimals will be taken if the percentages are to be calculated. And now, in particular, the next question. The status of observers passes to the status of a full or temporary member of the European Parliament at the time when Croatia becomes a full member, and at which time elections for the European Parliament must be called and elections for the European Parliament are not in the law and theoretically can happen that those who are at the beginning of a few months observers of the age and remain in the status of representatives in the European Parliament for more than four years without elections, for more than four years, because only the first subsequent elections for the European Parliament in 2015 will then force Croatia to choose. If we sign the contract in 2009, we'll have full members in 2010. And when is the European Parliament's elections regular? Aren't they at the end of 2009, where we don't participate? I therefore believe that the deadline should still be for these temporary representatives in the European Parliament to be the longest of six months, and then we must hold elections first then, and the next, when they will be called by the European Parliament's body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13782	Thank you very much. We have a proposal to correct the incorrect allegations of the distinguished representative Marija Burić Pejcinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13783	Mr President, I would like to correct the incorrect assumption that temporary MPs could be up to four years in the European Parliament. It's just not possible. This has never happened before in similar situations, and there have been before and when elections will be called, we do not decide, but is decided by a single letter in the European Parliament. It calls on the Croatian Parliament and the institutions of the Republic of Croatia to call elections, so I don't think this problem exists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13784	Thank you very much. According to the Rules of Procedure, it is time for new applications for discussion. The debate followed by distinguished MPs Ingrid Antičević Marinovic. She's gone. He's losing his right to debate. There is a further application by the distinguished representative Damir Sesvecan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13785	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So before us is the proposal for a law on election of members in the European Parliament which is therefore proposed to be adopted in two readings, not as originally proposed under the urgent procedure. It therefore aligns Croatian legislation with the acquis of the European Union in the area of the right to vote and to run for the European Parliament. The procedure and selection of members in the European Parliament who are elected in direct elections on the basis of general, free, equal voting rights by a five-year term and above all should be said that the electoral system at European Union level is not explicitly prescribed, but that each Member State may choose its electoral system with respect to the conditions laid down by the act on the selection of representatives of the European Parliament by direct decision on the basis of general electoral law. The election of representatives for the European Parliament shall be carried out in each Member State for a number of seats designated by the founding contract, i.e. State accession contracts, the number of representatives of each country is therefore conditional on its size, i.e. the number of inhabitants. For example, Slovenia has 7 representatives, Hungary 24, Romania 35, Italy 78, Germany 99, Poland 54, etc., and Croatia should have 12 or 13 representatives according to these criteria. According to this proposal, members of the European Parliament would choose, on the basis of general and equal voting rights, all Croatian citizens who have the right to vote and I would just like to say about the doubts raised in the debate so far, so that Croatian citizens who have the right to vote can therefore choose, while referring to the opposition to Croatian citizens who have their residence outside the Republic of Croatia. I am convinced that the proposer, therefore the Central State Office, has taken care of this and that this provision is fully and in line with European Union legislation. In addition to Croatian citizens and in accordance with the Council Directive 93/109 EC since 6 December '93. Members of the European Parliament may be elected as citizens of another Member State of the European Union who have been granted permanent stay in the Republic of Croatia. As stated in the draft law, the election would be called by the President of the Republic of Croatia. The whole of Croatia would be one electoral unit. The right to run with registered political parties would have citizens with the support of at least 3000 voters, and the electoral threshold would be limited to obtaining at least 5% of voters' votes. As far as the selection process is concerned, how to choose the body for the conduct of the election of the vote itself, the protection of the electoral right, the observation of the election. So, compared to the elections held for the election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, the number of differences is small. So, all these provisions are more or less equal to our current electoral legislation. And I'm going to highlight only one newspaper that I keep significant and interesting. So, about the so far election systems we have in the Republic of Croatia or have, which is the introduction of so-called The preferred votes, which means that the voter, with a vote for a certain list of candidates, may mark one candidate over the other candidates on the list he voted for. The preferred votes would be appreciated if the number of such votes for each candidate is at least 10% of the votes adopted by the individual list, and those candidates who received the highest number of preferred votes would be elected. In the discussions, a number of other solutions were also mentioned, so which is proposed by this law, so I would not repeat them, but I would say again but ultimately say that I would definitely support the adoption of this, or the adoption of the law in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13786	Thank you very much. On the basis of the application, the distinguished representative, Tanja Vrbat, is on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13787	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, we are discussing today this proposal for an electoral law for the election of Croatian representatives for the European Parliament. It is an institution currently representing 492 million citizens from the 27 member states of the Union and we believe that Croatia will one day become very soon. I expected that a little wider discussion would be held in the public, that several different models that exist among the members of the Union would be considered, so here I want to debate in this direction today. I welcome that this law is nevertheless passed in a second reading because I believe that in making it as well as any electoral law, this should also be part of the opposition and every political, let's say, factor in this country because the opposition also has its constitutional role as well as power to represent the citizens of this country. So, I started a little of the genealogy as it all started, started first with the Parliamentary Assembly of the European Union, and later it just grew into the European Parliament, since '62. they always added new regulations to the Paris summit in '74. the year when certain concrete decisions by the Commission related acts of '76 occur. The related acts introduce a more detailed regulation on the election of MPs, the real election of representatives in the European Union Parliament and begin to homogenise at the level of all Member States. At that time, the general guidelines were to increase the number of MPs, but at that time was the general position that the mandate should be five years old and then a double mandate was allowed, meaning the national representative and the representative in the European Parliament, which was later fully removed as a possibility. The first universal elections, or general elections for the European Parliament, took place on 10 June '79. the year, and the proposal for an election law, which is before us today, marks one electoral unit with a preferential vote, the ability to run for the list, but the party lists, as well as independent lists, and the right to choose and choose for all adult citizens. So, in general, I agree with this idea, but as Mr. Mimica pointed out on behalf of the club some of our concerns, so I am particularly concerned about this part of how foreign citizens in the Republic of Croatia will vote, but more than how our citizens will vote outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia. With a small comparative overview of the general characteristics that appear in different countries as regards the European Parliament's elections, we come to the conclusion that all 18-year-old citizens have the right to choose a representative in the European Parliament, which is different for this second part, which means who can become a representative in the European Parliament. So it takes 25 years in Italy to be elected, 23 in France, 21 in Belgium, Greece, etc., 19 in Austria and 18 in most other countries. In some countries independent lists are allowed, some are not allowed independent lists of candidates. It is in us, and I think it's okay, so it doesn't lead to some kind of two-party that some of us are terrified of. In some countries, voting takes 1 day, while in others it lasts 2 days. I personally believe that it should be limited to 1 day that it could not somehow affect the outcome of the election, which is held in this proposal for a vote from the so-called so-called vote. Diaspora, which I find unwell. It is generally voted on Sundays, but in some countries, we would also vote on Sundays, in some countries voting, which have such a tradition of going to the polls on Thursdays, is voted on Thursdays. It's in Ireland, Great Britain, Denmark and the Netherlands. The general guideline is in this European Union and is trying to uniformise legislation in the direction that all countries must have proportionate, i.e. proportionate electoral systems and so is even Great Britain, which is the mother of the majority electoral systems in '94. I spent my first election with a proportional method. So, as Mr Cain said, it is very unlikely that the majority method directly elects our representatives in the European Parliament. Most members apply a purely proportional electoral system, but with different thresholds, they apply the 5% threshold most, as proposed in this proposal, but Austria, for example, applies the 4% threshold, Greece 3. Furthermore, different mathematical formulas are the calculation of residues in the proportional method, the most important one is this well-known method of Dont's, and as far as the preferred vote is concerned, some countries also accept it, which is proposed by us, I also think that this is a good solution. As has already been said here, European MPs are chosen by a certain key, i.e. by demographics, but we must recognise the political weight of each Member State, so we have the largest number of MEPs in Germany, then France, Great Britain, Italy with 78, Poland and Spain with 54, to the smallest Slovenia 7, Cyprus and Luxembourg with 6 and Malta with 5. Here, Croatia would, says most likely have 12 MPs, given our demographic weight, I think I hope it will be so, that it won't be less. As for the original units, I think it's okay to go to the model of one constituency, different countries have different models. In some rule larger countries have more constituencies than one, or if that's, say, Federations, then they have more electoral units. Now we come to the most controversial part, which is part of how to enable citizens of the European Union, foreign citizens to vote in Croatia, and this is guaranteed in every country of the Union that a citizen from another EU country has the right to vote, that is, by some directive, I don't know now by heart, '93. It seems guaranteed to me, and it generally works well. But then there are some differences and nuances among the countries concerned by the residence itself. Many laws differ, so France and Finland seek residence or residence, while Germany, Luxembourg, Belgium, Greece, Portugal, Spain, Italy seek only a confirmation of the usual residence, while, for example, Luxembourg provides for a certain minimum period of stay for the exercise of voting rights. In Great Britain, citizens, now this is about citizens of Great Britain staying abroad, only have the right to vote if they are public deputies and officials, members of the armed forces, or if they have left the country for less than five years. I am sorry, I have also studied comparatively how the diaspora of other countries has the right to choose countries such as Sweden, Belgium, France, Spain, Greece, Italy recognise the right to vote to their citizens, their own citizens wherever their residence is. Some countries, for example, Germany has a right, German citizens around the world only have the right to vote if they reside in the territory of another country within less than 10 years. So we might have to think about making things more detailed, but we can't say that these examples outside don't exist. The second thing is that we have to sort out lists of voters, which I personally think is that the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, or the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, are a constituent people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that they are not identical to our citizens in New Zealand. I am interested in Mr Palaric and we see a declaration of compliance with the European acquis at the end of this bill, but I am interested in how the commission and whether it commentes on this special case of ours about the diaspora, which is always a lot of words when any electoral law is discussed with us.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13788	Thank you very much. We have one application for correction of an incorrect allegation. Dear colleague Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13789	Mr. Vice President, I really think this is something to be reacted to, because it's really not true. [[You don't understand.]] When it comes to citizens of the Republic of Croatia, they have the same rights and obligations wherever they are, whether in Croatia, Australia, New Zealand or Bosnia and Herzegovina, whoever is a citizen of the Republic of Croatia has all the rights and obligations as a citizen of the Republic of Croatia who resides in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13790	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed representative of Vrbat.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13791	My colleague, I have not said at any time that Croatian citizens do not have the same rights. I didn't say that. I even supported the example that different diaspora of other countries have the right to vote. ... Don't put what I didn't say in my mouth. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13792	Okay. A distinguished colleague colleague, Arsen Bauk, came forward for discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13793	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am extremely pleased that the Croatian Parliament has come to the stage of the debate on the Law on Elections for the European Parliament and I hope that Croatian citizens will also come very quickly to the stage of implementing this or some similar law that we will soon pass. As planned for this to be discussed as a final draft of the law, I have prepared some amendments without ambition to enter major political assessments to make this law better and also so that some of these proposals can be completed in our Electoral Law. In the current proposal, the proposal for a law that we received on the bench, Article 33(3), defines in a very incomprehensible way how much of the party has the right to a mandate on the basis of the election results. So it writes: The total number of valid votes received by each list (the pick-up mass of the list is divided by one to the number of members elected to Parliament, respecting the decimals) and is now likely to have a three- or four sentence released in copying and says from the candidate list so many candidates as the term of office has been given that list. On the basis of this definition, it is not possible to conclude how many lists would be given a mandate. I suggest that the provisions of Article 149 be introduced into this law. The Law on the Work of the People's Newspaper No. 137/04. This seems to me the only Croatian legal regulation where in a correct mathematical way Dont's method is described and I suggest that you look at the solution from the Labour Act which is exactly the best way, even better than the Law on the Selection of Representatives defined as determining the number of representatives from each list based on Dont's method. I would also suggest that a newspaper be introduced when we have already introduced a reference vote, which is to add to the list the signs of political parties. I am quite sure that our red sign in many ways would make the ballot big, because there will be a very large number of candidates on it, because it is predicted that all candidates from all lists will be on the ballot so that they can vote in reference, so it will be a few pages, so let it be added, that is one part, so that solution exists in some other countries, for example, in Italy. And, of course, other signs would probably enlarge and embellish that ballot, and of course, at least I'm sure of our sign, recognizable and even more recognizable to the citizens for the vote. As far as the reference system is concerned, I think this is the solution that will not lead to anyone on any list being placed in front of anyone else, or that the reference system is applied because too many thresholds have been set. If I have read well in the proposal for a solution, it is written that a citizen can vote for only one candidate on that list except for the list. A valid ballot is one where no candidate on the list is circled, and the threshold is set to apply referencely, so to change the order should only get one candidate of 12, 10% of the total vote from those who voted in favour of the list. And now there are two possible solutions either to reduce the proposed threshold to, for example, 5% or even 3%, and then to define the basis of the votes of those candidates who received not 10% but 3%, or to allow citizens to vote for more candidates within each list. This would, of course, be a greater number of possible votes in circulation and a larger number, would in some ways be a balanced impact of the reference vote. For example, Bosnia and Herzegovina has had a longer number of years of reference vote, though very much counted in the last general elections, I think it took 15 days to count the votes of those concerning the number of candidates, but a good longer count sometimes changes the results, but hopefully we are not at that stage. So I suggest that we consider modifying this reference solution, the reference system as it is now written. Also, my opinion would not want to enter major political debates over voting in diplomatic and consular representations whatever that means, but I suggest that it lasts one day. Experiences from the 2007 parliamentary elections show that with 120 and some polling stations in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in other countries already opened, it would be a better solution for the vote to last Saturday and be completed, and then for Croatia to vote on Sunday. This would in some ways facilitate and improve vote control, these elections have shown that there were no excessive crowds in diaspora polling stations such as in 2003, 2000 and before that, and I think the election process would have been improved in this way. I have not been able to find it in the bill, but I certainly ask the Proposer not to miss this as regards replacing your mandate when you are being replaced or when you resign that we would not, that we do not have to be ashamed in front of Europe that it is worth one thing for Bagaric, and for Cacic, perhaps another, and for that solution to be made unambiguously and clearly, and in that sense, I will give my proposals to the Proposer, and I will support the bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13794	Thank you very much. Next comes the debate of the distinguished representative Marija Pejcinović Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13795	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the government. This is why this law is before us today. We all know that in this process of negotiations we have passed an analytical review and in Chapter 23 of the judiciary and fundamental human rights in which Croatia has taken the obligation to bring its legislation in line with the European Union directives on the rights of emphasis and candidacy for the European Parliament. What would be more important to say about the European Parliament? Certainly as the first thing, and to know of course why it is extremely important, and this law that we are making today is that these direct elections are held only for the last 30 years, and that since then, the European Parliament has actually been given a more important and important mandate at first. So today surely the European Parliament, which has not been the case in the past, represents one of the four extremely important institutions of the European Union. We've heard enough of that. I'd only single out a few again that I personally think are most important to me. So, choosing directly, choosing for 5 years, and certainly this bill that we have ahead of us needs to satisfy three framework conditions, and that it is up to us to pass a law that is best adapted to our tradition. Therefore, three framework conditions are proportionate to representation, that the structure of the electoral area does not jeopardise this proportionality and what is the threshold. I think all three of these conditions are met in what we have in the proposal ahead of us. The specificity, we have already heard, is that this law, on a non-discriminatory basis, gives the right to choose and be elected to citizens who are not citizens of the Republic of Croatia. This is a new one that was introduced into the European acquis in the 1990s. Since then, it has decided to approach the concept of European citizenship and since then, in fact, the rights and rights have been granted to those who are citizens of the European Union, but do not live in a country whose citizens are also citizens. It also applies to local elections. Here, and just enough to have the exact number in the record. Someone here mentioned one wrong number, the total number of representatives in the European Parliament today. He's not 732. It was thus defined by the Nice Treaty. He's 785 today and there's been a lot of debate about it, and how many of us are going to have representatives. So here are the numbers 12, 13. I think it's at speculation level still. We'll have as many MPs as she can define or legal gain, if that's the case at the moment, so if the Lisbon Treaty or something like that, let his version be ratified by then. If not, we hope and that is, in fact, what we are proposing in our talks with the members of the European Union. If that's not the case, it'll be part of the legal gain that will become our accession contract. Here, and finally, by adopting this law, Croatia is creating a legal framework on which, after entering full membership in the European Union, Croatia will ensure a smooth implementation of elections for the members of the European Parliament in accordance with the democratic standards adopted in the EU, which I think it offers, but certainly what I also think is that this proposal offers to take account of the specificities and heritage of our electoral system and I think that the practice that my colleague Vrbat has stated shows that, in fact, in most Member States, it was still going to be that each country's specificity is respected. I think it would be a good case for Croatia as well. Here and finally I support this proposal in this first reading, and I believe that we will have the government's openness to consider all the ideas that are put here, but I personally think that this is a good proposal that we have ahead of us and I also support its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13796	Thank you very much. Next up for debate, distinguished counterpart Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13797	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This is a law that really deserves attention. As my colleague Bauk says, the time has come for us to talk in the Croatian Parliament about a law that in some way deems our European ambitions, but also institutional ties with the European Union. It is brought once for a transitional period during which the Croatian Parliament, i.e. the Republic of Croatia, will only have its observers and then members, rather than actually be established as a legal act, as an electoral law that should regulate this issue of elections for a long time. We assume that time may also bring about the needs of some corrections when it is already being made, but it seems to me now that several elements of this proposal need to be pointed out so that, given that the Government has asked to take a step backwards, which is that this law is being discussed today at the right reading, so that the Proposer is allowed to complete this text to another reading. In Article 11 of this proposal, there is one illogicality. Namely, there are cases of incompatibility of duty, and then the article in paragraph 2 lists the Croatian officials in whom the incompatibility of duty is established and gives them an opportunity to run, but in case they come into a position of incompatibility of duty, they choose which duty they accept. Unfortunately, paragraph 1 which speaks of EU officials does not later provide for the possibility of giving them the same right. We don't see any logic. So if a Croatian citizen, a citizen acting as a duty that is otherwise considered incompatible within the institutions of the European Union, decides to run, we see no reason to prevent it. If elected, let him decide what duty he will be. So this is article 11 where we propose that both Croatian and European officials have the same treatment. Furthermore, Article 22 presents a somewhat ridiculous situation. It is thus formulated to turn out that on the day of electoral silence, which is 24 hours before the day of elections and the day of elections, no newspaper in the Republic of Croatia should publish photographs. Of course, it's meant for the candidate's photographs, but that's not what it says. So we ask that it be made up in a meaningful way, so that it doesn't turn out that Saturday and that Sunday newspapers can only publish cartoons. Furthermore, I think it should be warned that there is a theoretical chance that individual lists will receive an equal number of votes. It happened in the local elections in the Republic of Croatia not once that individual lists received the same number of votes, but in this case the representative body increased by one. We have at least three cases where it happened, that both selected candidates then entered the representative body. This is not possible with the European Parliament. That case can't be solved by getting both of them in. We suggest that he thinks about it, that in such cases as I admit to being only theoretical, but that the law does provide for them, that there is a division of mandates in such cases. Furthermore, this law gives the national electoral commission concrete additional obligations. It's not an ad hoc body anymore, it's a professional body. We think it would be good, given that in one place, this law very strongly mentions their obligation to correspondence reporting in relation to the Member States of the European Union, that this is particularly explicit in Article 36 and written primarily because it involves staff and technical teaming which the state electoral commission does not have. So that we can prepare for this in time, because we are not expected to communicate in Croatian in contact with the parliament of Hungary or Lithuania. Furthermore, we propose that Article 38, including Article 41, be modified in a way that determines the permanent and expanded composition of county, or city or municipal election committees. So, in this respect, the electoral commissions are equated to that system that we have in our parliamentary and local elections. We also suggest that an error be removed in article 43. In particular, the Vice-President of the Electoral Committee is without reason left out of this article, so that the deputies, or their deputies, should be inserted there, in order to apply the provision to both the Vice-Presidents and the alternate members. There's another inaccuracy when it comes to preferential voting, then there's always talk there, among other things, on the list, on the list. It's not a vote on the list, it's a vote on the list, because voting on the list is a preferential vote. So that's two different things. Here in this article was actually meant to vote, but it says on the list. Well, that wouldn't be too bad to explain. And one more thing we suggest we consider. In fact, the issue of election observation in this bill is practically made possible by NGOs, and is not enabled by all parliamentary parties. It would happen again if not all parliamentary parties in the Croatian Parliament were represented. We therefore propose that political parties who do not have their representatives on election committees, because this is physically impossible, as well as candidates who have proposed voters, independent lists, be allowed to observe the electoral process, therefore to them, and not to stay this way, because that is how they are actually prevented from being observed. Of course, this issue of rights, electoral rights, that is to say, the check of voting rights, by confirming the residence that has been spoken of several times, is a very important institute. We must be aware that we can happen to have a citizen of the Republic of Croatia who has dual citizenship and lives in Graz on Friday voting for the Austrian representative in the European Parliament, and on Saturday for Croatia, on Sunday or on the same day and afternoon. So, if they're looking for his ID, by confirming the vote, about the residence in the Republic of Austria, and we're not looking for that, there's going to be a double vote. I am sure that the institutions of the European Union would not look kindly at such a thing. So, if we are already asking foreigners living in the Republic of Croatia to prove their legitimacy to the electoral rights by confirming their residence, then we must ask our own citizens so that this reciprocal possibility of voting in two places does not happen. Since there are no bound databases and there are no polling stations, the data which, where there is a polling station, is impossible to verify. So if you haven't introduced proof of residence, and here it's planned but only for foreigners then you can have a double vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13798	Thank you very much. We've exhausted all the requests for a hearing. I'm closing the debate. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Mr. Secretary Palaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13799	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I am extremely pleased with the approach of this law both by the government and by parliamentary deputies and this lengthy debate will certainly contribute to making the final bill better and better. Although we are quite sensitive to the electoral problem, we are quite sensitive to everything that is happening in the election of all I will remind us that in the positive and the amount for the accession of the Republic of Croatia for membership in the European Union, the evaluation by the European Commission is constantly to be repeated, which is that the Republic of Croatia is a democratic country in which all the institutions of the system operate within the limits of their powers. We know how to choose. In the recent Croatian history of the independent Croatian state, we had a lot of choices. They've been implemented in a legitimate and fair way. And I will talk about the last parliamentary elections when we had about 7,000 observers and when 36 thousand Croatian citizens were included in the election process in the Republic of Croatia as members of the election committees of municipal, county committees. No mistake, gentlemen. The elections were held appropriately. Look at the OSCE report. It is a body we respect, a mission was in Croatia for eleven years, followed by the development of democracy and left. Why did she leave? Because it is concluded that Croatia is a mature democracy, that human rights are respected and therefore the right to choose and be elected. Ladies and gentlemen, it is extremely important to conduct the European Parliament elections well. But I am convinced that Croatian citizens from the age of 18 will be responsible for putting themselves in each part of the election process as voters, as candidates, as participants in the electoral administration from the voters' lists to all levels of election committees, including the State Election Commission, because of this assessment of Croatia as a mature democracy, we have taken great steps forward from the establishment of a dominant professional state election commission, an extremely well-paid, therefore stimulated by a seven-year term that has a professional service that may be the best paid professional service in Croatia. The coefficients are such that even I found it difficult to defend it in the Government of the Coefficient Regulation. And we wanted to enable the State Election Commission to get a quality professional service and we think that pay is one of the reasons that can attract the best staff. Furthermore, the experience behind us guarantees that these elections will be much simpler than elections for parliament, much simpler than local elections, especially in the context of the direct election of mayors, municipal mayors, mayors. I am convinced that Croatian citizens will choose their representatives in an appropriate way, but the law will be corrected. I thank you all for your suggestions, for your remarks. More eyes are better seen or everyone is looking from their own view so something that seems to us a clear picture in the paper, it's clear to everyone what is thought of, will always be in some middle pages and weather forecasts, and muscles, and order from the scene of a subcultural or black chronicle, unfortunately there is but no one ever thought to think about it when it comes to election law. And there is no law that can predict all possible situations but therefore there are people who apply it, serious people who have experience and who have passed all the tests of democracy. Therefore, it is necessary to believe in the State Election Commission, county election committees, city and municipal, election committees. I have great confidence in the election committees. These people on the spot at the polling station are actually controlling democratic procedures, looking out for each other, so the election commissions are balanced, but I believe there are less and less reasons for that. Nobody cares about election fraud, we don't want to. There have been mistakes outside the Republic of Croatia. That's what we've condemned, we've been looking for an investigation, and there's been some criminal proceedings, and I hope it doesn't happen again. We've also developed a new law on voters' lists. We have allowed all participants of the election process to receive a copy of the voters' list except for personal data protected by a special law. We allow everyone to observe the election so that I don't see any problems with the political party watching. It can establish an association to observe elections because it will not be one man but the association is registered for two days. We've got 35 grand. That we have 35 additional associations for no one. So, I think that this law is, in particular, with newspapers that concern the relevant, preferential voice, in fact, a major step forward and that it makes it possible twice for a citizen's voter to choose, first to define himself as a party, for the political option and then to choose from those proposed candidates the political party still chooses who it trusts most. And it is necessary to appreciate the efforts made by the government to make the electoral right more detailed and actually make it possible to double-choice everyone and to make it possible to choose the right representatives in the European Parliament that the people want. Of course, there is never an end to the development of the electoral system and that in a year we will probably be smarter and that we are constantly developing the electoral system, but as we estimate that we are already good and with everything that has been done in the last few years that we have made significant progress with this new model, I also believe that we will soon get a law that will support all of us. It is difficult for everyone to be satisfied in every detail but by looking at those basic provisions, those principles and rules of law will allow for a clear determination of the will of Croatian voters and will determine fair and fair rules for the election match. I thank you all for your support and for your comments. We will carefully study the phonogram and prepare the law for final reading with the most respected remarks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13800	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13801	We move on to the draft law on election of members in the European Parliament, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 123. The debate was concluded, the applicant gave up the emergency procedure before the debate was launched and all amendments submitted will be submitted to the applicant as objections to the draft law. I'm voting on the following conclusions. 1. Proposal for a law on election of members in the European Parliament and 2. Any comments, proposals and opinions raised in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This conclusion was accepted by most votes, 118 votes for, 11 abstentions and 1 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13802	We move to item 6 of the consolidated agenda: - Final bill on gender equality, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 136 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by committees, the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, the Committee on Gender Equality, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received reports from the board at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Gender Equality, the Committee on Law, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, and the SDP Representatives' Club. Does the applicant’s representative wish to further explain the proposal? Here you go. Dear Secretary of State Stjepan Adanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13803	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I will brief you on the reasons for the adoption of this Law on Gender Equality. They were actually doubles. We remind you that, for formal reasons, by decision of the Constitutional Court of 16 January this year, the law was abolished with an end of validity until 15 July. So for a few more days, this law goes into effect and then this law that you would vote on should come into effect. In the case of an assessment of the compatibility of this law with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Constitutional Court has decided, by assessing the legal nature of this law, that it is an organic law, given that it provides for the establishment of human rights and fundamental freedoms as set out in Article 3 and Article 14. And since it was passed with one less voice than the Constitutional Court had to, that law was abolished. However, given the continued commitment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to improve, promote and implement gender equality policies, there have also been substantial changes to the existing law in order to improve it on the basis of experience in the notice, in the light of this law for the past few years. With the establishment of general grounds for the protection and promotion of the principle of gender equality, the proposal for a new law is further aligned with the acquis of the European Union, in particular with the revised European Parliament and of the Council of 2006 on the implementation of the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment of men and women in matters of employment and occupation as well as other directives that prescribe equal treatment and ban on sexual discrimination. In addition to the principles of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, the bill also confirms the content, guarantees of gender equality, the Convention on Gender Equality and other Contracts of the United Nations. In accordance with the provisions of this proposal, the law prescribes a general prohibition of discrimination on the basis of gender, marital and family status, and the current law further prohibits discrimination in the field of the acquisition of goods and the provision of services and regulations, introduces a provision under which more unfavourable treatment against women is considered discrimination based on pregnancy and motherhood. This proposal for a law introduces substantive complementarities and improvements in the field: 1st work and employment, education, the activities of political parties, which is very important, media and statistics. Here I will stress briefly that the proposal for this law includes the definition of a sensitive gender imbalance that exists when the representation of one sex in public and political decision-making bodies is less than 40%. It's a big newspaper in this law, and I think it'll say hello. Also, the proposal for a new Law on Gender Equality in relation to existing yields and significant improvements in the regulation of judicial protection against discrimination and introduces new institutes such as the joint action on the proposal of NGOs, the transfer of burdens of evidence and the principle of urgency in court, in court proceedings. In addition to these specified methods of judicial protection of victims of discrimination other than protection in civil proceedings, they will be able to ensure their judicial protection in a misdemeanour procedure, as in violation of the provisions of the law of a certain sanction in the form of appropriate fines to all those who act against the law's infringements, and this is an important paper because the absence of sanctions in today's and so far's law was one of the main ones, was one of the main objections. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has secured for the implementation of this law from the state budget for the Office for Gender Equality of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and for the Ombudsman for Gender Equality a total of 655 thousand 800 kuna, and 2 million kuna and 100 thousand kuna will be provided from the budget of the County Assembly and the budget of the City of Zagreb. So a total of 2 million 75,000 and 800 kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13804	Thank you very much. I ask if the rapporteurs will take their word on behalf of the board? Here you go. Dear Representative Gordana Sobol on behalf of the club, on behalf of the Committee on Gender Equality. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13805	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At its 9th session, held on 9 July this year, the Committee on Gender Equality discussed the Proposal for a Law on Gender Equality with a final draft of the law. The Committee discussed that proposal in accordance with Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. At the outset, the applicant’s representative explained the draft law. This legislative proposal aligns the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union. In July 2003, the Croatian Parliament passed a Law on Gender Equality. According to that law, the bodies for its implementation have also been established. However, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia abolished this law on 16 January 2008, as it was estimated that the procedure for its adoption was not in agreement with the Constitution. According to the promoters, this law elaborates the Constitution established human rights and fundamental freedoms and lays down general grounds for the protection and promotion of gender equality as the fundamental values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia, and defines and regulates the way against discrimination based on sex and the creation of equal opportunities for women and men. In the debate followed by the members and members of the committee, they also made their comments. It stressed that there was insufficient time for a wider public debate on the bill. It was noted that the draft law lacked the inclusion of birth identities, which was contained in the draft referred to in the public debate. The opinion has been expressed that the article setting out the obligations of political parties is unclear and that parity as the desired state should be defined. The question is whether the effectiveness of the intended fines for political parties which do not take account of gender balance when proposing the electoral lists is assessed. The reference is also made to part of the law relating to education, i.e. the suggestion that a textbook should be mentioned as content related to gender equality issues. The opinion that the law takes a major step forward in terms of the introduction of quotas although a period of 3 electoral cycles is considered too long. It is also pleased that the draft law strengthens institutional mechanisms specifically co-ordinators and co-ordinators for gender equality in competent authorities. Members and members of the Committee unanimously decided to submit amendments to the Final Proposal for a Law on Gender Equality. The first amendment refers to Article 15(2), which in fact tries to determine in accordance with the article, is added, in accordance with Article 12(3) of this Act, because that particular item determines what is considered to be a sense of unbalanced representation of men or women. In the second amendment to Article 29, we propose to add a new paragraph 2 which reads: “The conditions and means for the work of city and municipal committees for gender equality are ensured in the budgets of the units of local self-government, since they can therefore be established according to the bill, and we have decided, the law provides for a financing solution, i.e. providing funds for the work of the county commissions and the commission of the City of Zagreb. So here's the same way, so there won't be any problems tomorrow, any problems are suggested that local committees at the level of municipalities and cities are also solved in this way. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Gender Equality Act with those amendments to the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13806	Thank you. The other committees? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate and we're going to the club debate first. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Mirjana Feric-Vac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13807	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State, Mr. Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I believe that the proposal for a law on gender equality that allows debate will explain greatly to the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia how, in real respect of the challenges of equality, we as representatives and representatives of our political parties, whom these same citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia have elected to the Croatian Parliament specifically decide in this very sensitive segment of the functioning of every society, including us in the Republic of Croatia. Equality as a starting point in the system of fundamental values of the parties to which it belongs, therefore large families of the parties to which my party belongs. It is a different dimension compared to all other policy options that in debt, at least a century old engagement was also a goal that we are really seeking to achieve in society of parity democracy. I do not wish to deny a single political option from this place to contribute to the achievement of this goal with the positions of its fundamental values, but this is all written in the Republic of Croatia that we should have waited 2000 and the coalition government for gender equality to become both constitutional and values, and we are very proud of that as a whole. After the adoption of this constitutional change in the legislation of the Republic of Croatia, a whole series of legislative changes were introduced, new laws were passed, and among them the Law on Gender Equality, which is a note of Bene as we knew our shortcomings. However, in addition to the law passed by it, the institution of the government's Office for Gender Equality, the institution of a lawyer or a lawyer for gender equality has emerged. Gradually, the awareness of citizens and citizens grew about the possibilities of achieving their human rights under the existing law. It was thus created a more free and open society in which the pillars of parity democracy are still being built. So we don't detect hot water, but we use this steam machine that we already know exists. On behalf of the SDP club, I would like to stress that we welcome the adoption of the law, but we would also like to emphasise our remarks in that good intention with the aim of improving the law, not as an expression to improve women's status in the Republic of Croatia and to achieve equal opportunities for women and men. Here are those remarks. Something has already been mentioned, but one observation that we as a political party here must say is that the working group worked on the bill was formed relatively late to achieve a better cooperation with representatives and representatives of the wider number of civil society associations and political parties. Therefore, it was not possible to create and pursue a broad debate that would involve citizens and citizens in improving, in the consciousness of the law, etc. In the content section, it should be said that the concept and principles of gender sensitive policies are not applied consistently in this law. Namely, what is called the Gender mainstreaming in translation and interpretation of what the European Union member states have adopted, and the Republic of Croatia has accepted the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement means precisely that institutionally integrated elements and perspectives of gender equality in all state structures as a comprehensive strategy in all aspects of the functioning of society. So it's not enough to express only intentions, it's worth implementing them. But some European countries, as we know, go further from this framework and seek and introduce the principle of equal representation of women in the bodies of private corporations and companies. So, I would like to say that certain areas in which gender discrimination is very present are contained in this law and in any case are the areas of employment and work, the area of education, the representation of women in structures where political decisions are made from state to local level, in the media and in a whole range of other areas. First of all, I would like to say something about Article 13 concerning discrimination in the field of employment and labour. He's a relatively well-involved area. However, it is known that women's wages for working the same value are on average 20% lower than men's wages, whether they should actually be surprised when young people, or when fathers do not decide to use maternity leave. The question must be raised whether women know that there is a law under which these same women could even apply to a lawyer or a lawyer for gender equality if they are considered discriminatory under the law. Therefore, it is both the public and the availability of information. In this broad area, I would like to mention the problem of the coherence of professional and family life as a necessary assumption and a satisfied and busy woman and woman who wants to reconcile her private life. It is known that women tend to care for household chores, raise children, care for older family members. So it's children's institutions, their flexible working hours, they're adequate homes for caring for older people, and about the government's willingness to finance them, we heard the other day all about adopting budget rebalancing. Mostly, all such amendments have been rejected. Today in the Republic of Croatia, the younger people's decision is ever more present without asking questions as to why, as well as to comment on living alone without a marriage partner. So, I would also not enter into national youth policy, but it should be said that the gathering of all living conditions is difficult to achieve the goal of my own living space very present in our reality, but it should be pointed out that what I just said about homes for older people that they are very much needed by parents, or older people from the family of those men and women who choose to live alone. But, of course, in this part of the Law on Gender Equality, age as a category is not an apriorice component. But in practice, it's the age of the category in which women are discriminated against. For example, a woman who can't get a job in one job as a woman and is 45 years old, is not employed because of her age. Of course, legislation is complementary from agreeing with a bill, we must not fail to point out that what we consider to be positive by some other law can be derivated. So let me proceed with Article 14 of Chapter 5 on education. It is therefore one area in which discrimination applies and which once again generates discrimination in the long-term. The principle of equal access to education at all levels would have to be an absolutely untouchable point in the Republic of Croatia, but the realities change when we talk about equal conditions in training because it is precisely this element of women's advancement in the world of work and the principles of life education that reflect and all restrictions created and the lack of institutions to raise children and the lack of homes for older people. Despite numerous research and NGOs and various scientific research, many school textbooks at all levels of education are known to be abundant in stereotypes. They of course confirm this some patriarchal social pattern, but contribute unfortunately to multiplying the same patterns. At this stage of adoption of this law, the proposer could also include a provision on the disposal of stereotypes from school textbooks, but Article 14 speaks of content, the explanations speak of curricula, but there is no mention of content in school textbooks. In the education system, therefore, it is left at the good will of the directors, the principal of educational institutions and staff and workers in this area to probably create working materials that will be used by the sequence of their beliefs. Unfortunately, this is not the government's great willingness to approach women's rights openly and with a clear intention throughout the area of education for democracy and human rights. We would certainly comment on such legal proposals extensively, but would be a sequence of a consistent policy. I want to say something in the name of the profession educational. It is true that everything that stands and is implemented as content should be content of teaching programs, but you will allow in schools that do not have adequate equipment, you will allow in the overload of educational staff and employees so that this cannot be left to their free creation because they have no conditions, have their brains, their commitment, but that is why the textbook is one of the elements that we still need to include in school, therefore it is one of the permanent processes that we advocate. When it comes to the media, I will repeat how stereotyped it is, and not rarely and inappropriately and discriminatoryly portraying women in print and electronic media, especially in advertising campaigns, absolutely inadmissible. We have warned of this in recent years, and it is good that in this law the issue of advertising and women's human rights is regulated and fines, but I'm afraid they are unrealistically high. This may also result in a contrast, which in no way would be desired. So we are not satisfied with the programme's content aimed at promoting gender equality. More specifically, the state of such a species is not sustainable and the media responsible for the state budget, that is, with the money of citizens and citizens of this country must be greater and must be subject to review and evaluation. At the very least, it would be expected that today we are already faced with regular shows that would deal with and address gender-sensitive issues, so the population will kill over 51% of the world. What to say about... If I'm going to be quite specific, then I'd say, let's look at that list of us in Parliament, what it looks like all together. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This law regulates it in a certain way. I, here, can say with pleasure that I come from a party that introduced 40% quotas with its statutes, regulated the uniform representation of both sexes in 1996. The high percentage was realised in the parties' bodies, on the lists for elections in the Croatian Parliament and the SDP club today numbers 18 women, i.e. 32%, not 40%, but very high percentage compared to the general average in the Croatian Parliament of 22%. For various other reasons, other political parties do not apply the principles of balanced representation of women and men, although in explanations along with this law they call for and the resolution of the Council of Europe and other international documents that we have signed, the source of the basis of all birth sensitivity policies is in... is on a Beijing platform, in Cairo, today and of course in the Millennium Goals of the United Nations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, what needs to be particularly welcomed is an increase in the level of responsibility of local communities regulated by this law. For example, one major absurdity contained in Article 15(2) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is the one contained in the Annex to this Regulation. The level of balanced representation should therefore be gradually achieved in the third election round. Here, please, otherwise follow fines of 20 grand, 40 to 50 for different levels, municipal councils, city councils. And that's after the third cycle of elections, so somewhere in 2019, with an inflation of 8% or 5%, so it's all one, one part inflation in that period eats. In general, the principle that the highest level of punishment for elections for the Croatian Parliament ranks the balanced participation of women is not actually a component of equality in engagement at the places where decisions are made, and it is discriminated itself because somewhere more valuable in punishment or more is punished with greater sum, somewhere less. So it's not a good solution and that third cycle is absolutely something that's too far away. Let's look at the real and 10% higher budget amount for women's participation has not received certain effects in parties and greater women's participation, therefore this is not the element. Here's what I'd like to say next. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. but these measures are not defined by any indication, they are not contained in this way or in national policy, and not exactly national population policy can be a criterion of everything. So I would also like to point out briefly here that, in the creation of this law, working groups, one should be evaluated and the contribution of NGOs, female NGOs, associations that work to promote fundamental human rights and women's human rights and that is very much in creating a democratic society. Finally, and in politics, the rule is that on the way to the top and to achieve the goals, and this law goes in that direction, it is not necessary to execute those who have followed and followed us on this path. In the end, I want to say, the SDP club has submitted a series of amendments aimed at improving the Law on Gender Equality, improving it to the benefit of citizens and citizens because it is referred to them. In that sense, I call on you to support the amendments, to declare a good law that should always be upgraded, to really bear witness to what we are, because we are here in the service of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13808	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13809	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community Club discussed the Proposal for a Law on Gender Equality, with the Final Bill. Members and club members regret that because of one vote, this law could not have been adopted, but also expressed satisfaction with the adoption of a new law that makes further progress in strengthening awareness of the removal of all forms of discrimination against women in social, political, economic, cultural and other areas, strengthening gender awareness, creating equal opportunities for women and men and fighting all forms of violence against women. The problem of gender equality is otherwise viewed by lawyers as one of the most complex issues in terms of cultural, civilization, educational, psychological and all other aspects. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The constitution says gender equality falls within the highest values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. In 1992, Croatia signed the UN Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination of Women Known... all this is in line with national legislation with the accompanying institutions. [[You don't understand.]] In practice, we should talk about the implementation of the same implementation of the gender-aware policy and the establishment of a society of equal opportunities for both sexes. However, we face formal and content equality. Today, under the representation of women, women began to be considered not a scandal for women but a scandal for democracy. Women are still a sub-represented sex in the behaviour of authorities at national and local level, and a smaller share of women in local and representative and executive bodies is noticeable compared to their representation in the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on selecting members of representative bodies of units of local and regional (regional) self-government when drawing up a list is required to take account of the principle of gender equality. Political parties were obliged under the Law on Gender Equality to promote the balanced representation of women and men on the lists of candidates for elections in the bodies of local and regional (regional) self-government. In practice, those rules shall not be implemented. According to the latest census, the proportion of women is 51.8%, and the latest local elections show a low share of women in power. The mayor and mayor's office, the chief performs 5% of women, 95% of men. All 19% of women were on the runlists, only 6.8% were wearing these lists, so 262 women versus 3 000 569 men were only 10.7% of women selected. The law stands before us, and we can ask ourselves again how to help women. Obviously, a multidisciplinary approach stemming from this law is needed. Above all, equality in political and public life, when selecting members of political bodies, takes care of gender representation really rather than sometimes declarative. This law allows the introduction of specific measures when the representation of one of the sexes is felt unbalanced, so it even allows for the amendment of the Electoral Law. The notion of sensory imbalance exists if the representation of one sex in the bodies of political and public decision is below 40%. As women, we look forward to this 40% standard, and according to Article 15%, it is said that the increase must be achieved at the latest in the third cycle, of course it seems long to be in the debate and approved by many obstacles we face on the ground, for example in rural areas, patriarchal culture, traditionalism, etc. Women can be strengthened by harmonising family obligations with political professional life, creating equal employment opportunities, the share of women in the number of unemployed is 60%. Women are discriminated against on the basis of marital and family status, wondering how many children they have, intending to have children, whether they intend to marry, etc. There are even pay inequalitys,... We know that 20%, the inability to advance which times at work, in schooling, by removing stereotype textbooks, is a great help in empowering women. [[You don't understand.]] To raise awareness of the role of men in promoting equality in a democratic society without which we cannot achieve it. And finally, when all this was respected, women would finally come to the economic power of decision-making in the budget of the state budget. Members and members of the Croatian Democratic Community specifically pointed out measures aimed at protecting women in particular with regard to pregnancy and motherhood, which are not considered discrimination under this law. The law highlights the role of the media although a similar provision exists in the Media Act, it is a high penalty, but we believe it will also be a guarantee of the promotion and application of this law. Often, in the media it treats women with sneerness, the example of last night's commercials again is about beer on TV when it says in this game four girls are stronger, it's about younger women and not about grandmothers, so imagine saying that in this game four old ladies are more forgiving men, and it's the same thing about young men. On the other hand, it's offensive to the older population. The example was also the advertising message that I was already talking about in my discussions, "Tuborg" beer when, of course, the lawyer's response to gender equality didn't apologize, and they have stickers on their beer, it says on the one hand whether you like the waitress, take off and turn around. And on the other side of the sticker, invite her to take a breather at your desk. Well, now we'll see how this law and these provisions will be respected. We believe that law enforcement will be monitored under the watchful eye of the Office for Gender Equality and the Ombudsman for Gender Equality. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports the adoption of this law because its application will lead to a fairer society and greater democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13810	Thank you. And we're moving on to an individual debate. He's the first respected representative of Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13811	Honorable Vice President, Secretary of State, fellow MPs. I will try to minimise my debate, because there are fewer and fewer of us, and even those who traditionally advocate gender equality, to those who are working on compliance with European Union regulations. But I must say that Croatia has committed to adapting its legislation to European Union legislation on gender equality in legal regulation. But since the fact that the student clearly surpassed the teacher, given the report of the World Economic Forum, which would certainly be good to highlight here for 2007, Croatia is in a group of 14 European countries that took the highest places among the top 20 in this year's report covering 128 countries and 90% of the world population, respectively. From Croatia, which is 16th place of many European Union member states, as well as our neighbouring countries are less ranked. Slovenia is 49th place, Hungary 61st place, Italy 84th place, etc. Let me remind you that the Index of Gender Equality The World Economic Forum measured four critical areas. The first was the economic sector where it was also related to the wages that were mentioned earlier. The second area was then access to education where it was estimated that in Croatia men and women were almost even. Well, the third area is the health sector. And the fourth area right where we are the tiniest, it was a policy where unfortunately women are the weakest in Croatia, and there's the fact that there's a lot of good in this Parliament's summation, that somewhere there's a ratio of 22% to 78% for men. Therefore, according to the proposed law, this will certainly change, and in that part there will be balance between men and women since it will be a much better representation because no sex should be represented below 40%. But I am interested and I find it very interesting that this will be applied by the Government of the Republic of Croatia's Gender Equality Office, not to say correct the discrimination that is present today towards the structure of the employees. As you know, this Gender Equality Office doesn't have any male employees, but I think there are about six women working there, and so is the Committee for the Monitoring and Assessment of Gender Equality Policy in the media where even seven women are employed. There's not a single man either. Well, maybe that's where you should see that it's not some kind of discrimination either. The proposed law explicitly prohibits discrimination on grounds of pregnancy, motherhood, custody, which is often exposed by employers and in the case of employment itself. According to a survey conducted in 2007, the Office for Gender Equality together with the Employment Office conducted this research, so it published data that female employers show special interest in the marital status and number of children in women, and then when they were working on it in regions, the most interesting fact is that they are interested in employers from Istria and Primorje, data as well as from that region somewhere in 66.7% insist that women work on Sundays and holidays, and thereafter Dalmatia, etc. The fact is that women are certainly more discriminatory than men, especially in the labour market, especially in the part of better paid jobs that are for the benefit of men, the greater share of unemployment that is in favour of women, so that in the area, the most discriminated against in the field of gray economy, working on black and especially in the activities of catering, trade, construction, and more in small and medium-sized enterprises, which means less in larger businesses. So in any case, it's a good thing that such drastically high penalties are prescribed, regardless of what anyone thinks might cause some counter effect, ranging from a thousand to a million kunas. The fact is that more and more women, and it also needs to be pointed out what is very important are entering and this enters the management area in Croatia. They're going into politics. More and more important decisions are being made and that right now in Croatia with more than 273 companies, companies are being managed by women. So these companies are headed by women. And finally, a few more data, purely taxing. He says most women are considered successful in Zagreb, about 40%, followed by 34% of Dalmatia, etc. I think it's all encouraging data that, along with this bill, significantly improves the status of a woman and I think it will eradicate that discrimination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13812	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative Mirjana Feric-Vac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13813	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I appreciate any contribution to improving the compliance of the obligation... However, as Mr. Collar discusses, it seems we shouldn't have this law, because it's all so good. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I want to tell you that it's not about the higher salary of men and women, it's about the same compensation for working on the same value. About introducing measures, you didn't say what. One question is that the law partially regulates with a 40% quota. It is known that the degree of balanced representation and parity society is achieved in those countries of the European Union which you have not now listed, and precisely those countries which in some of their party structures had the representation of women from, or the representation of, both sexes of 50%. So things aren't so uniform. And secondly, in the school system, in health care, in the judiciary a huge number of women are employed, but the leading functions still have men. Therefore, the managerial relations you are talking about are not even realistic because the female entrepreneurship that has been discussed and which should have been encouraged ended up on whether women are owners and whether they know they should be owners of their potential properties in rural areas in order to be considered for credit at all. So we need the law not because the situation is good, but because it needs to be fixed and that in certain segments what exists today in the measures contained in other laws is not enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13814	Thank you. Replicate response, distinguished representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13815	I certainly can't help an esteemed representative to make her understand me. There's really nothing I can do to help, so then she realizes how she can figure it out. But I was merely presenting the real facts that were published, published by the World Economic Forum. So if a colleague questions this, then if Croatia is in 16th place, then it is commendable information that should be highlighted in any case. If she is in front of Slovenia, in front of Hungary, Italy as regards gender equality, so she has no reason not to mention it. Also, the fact that women manage over 273 companies in Croatia is the same statistical data published in the media. Now, if some women know they're owners or they're not owners, unfortunately there I can't help it, it would be good for you to do one research and let us know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13816	Injury. No corrections, no more. No more options, no more business, but we're moving on with the debate. Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13817	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here I am going to start a similar way as my colleague Kunst ended up in his debate. You told your colleague Kunst that this law will improve the status of women in Croatia. There is one word missing, application or two words consistent application of this law or even better its implementation will hopefully help to improve the status of women in Croatia compared to who it is today. And that's actually what I'd say is a request that all of us who are discussing should always say and seek, because unfortunately, the practice disproves us, or shows that we are somewhere worst at law enforcement or law enforcement. I personally welcome the adoption, therefore, of this new Law on Gender Equality, or rather, in a good work and an improved Law on Gender Equality, especially in that part, it seems to me that the greatest step in this law is probably what is finally defined as a sense of imbalance. Because we've often been in a situation where we might have wanted to do some things, but then it was said, but what does that even mean to you is a sensitive imbalance. Well someone said it might be, if a woman is less than 10% or if there are fewer than 20, a woman or men, we're still talking about a sub-represented sex. And now it's precisely defined and said everything that's below 40% is considered a sense of gender imbalance. Any men, any women, and that in all spheres of life. What I am particularly interested in, and in particular I have studied in this law in a way, which is a problem for women to participate in political decision-making at all levels from local to national. With me personally located levels so that I consider it more important in many issues than they are state-owned, because local environments and city and municipal councils and county assemblies are both where they are made, what decisions are said important and important for the everyday lives of citizens living in their territory. What I would suggest, i.e. as a SDP club, we have referred the proposal in this way to the amendment procedure, which is to try to specify or improve Article 15 relating to political parties and this item 2 which speaks of the gradual achievement of what is written in Article 12, which is, therefore, the 40% representation of both genders in the elections, we have roughly calculated, let's say, in 2019, if they are a regular third election cycle when it comes to the Croatian Parliament. However, I must warn one fact, if you are looking back several cycles, i.e. I think we will all agree that somewhere the biggest step in the political participation of women was made in the 2000 elections, when the number of women in Parliament in the Croatian Parliament was 8%, so to say jumped to 22% then, and in the meantime there were two more cycles, so behind us are three cycles where the number of women is approximately equal. It's moving somewhere between 22% and 21%. So we three election cycles, colleagues and colleagues are actually on the same level and actually, I say we stagnate. Why are we stagnating? Because since 2000 we have brought two national policies here, we have adopted the Law on Gender Equality on the basis of which we have formed the government's office, i.e. the Advocate's Office, we have introduced a provision on equality in the Constitution, we have also established the Parliamentary Committee, and when it comes to political decision-making, we have remained the third cycle at the same levels, and this applies to the local level, because the average we have today at local level is below what we have at Parliament's today, and we do not forget for a few months practically, or for less than a year, we are waiting for new local elections. And actually, I'm actually wondering now, what does that mean? Whether we will actually become so aware over the coming years of all together or political parties or leadership or those who are doing some independent civil lists, that they are gradually working on increasing women on lists, so that in 2019 or the twentieth we can get to that 40%, or whether we can leave it to them. I personally advocate that we establish this through this law, i.e. to introduce a mandatory gradual increase, which is that on the first next election cycle this mandatory quota is 30%, in the second election cycle 35, and then in the third election cycle 40%. Because I'm afraid that everyone will a little bit forget about that rule of law, the more punishments they're supposed to do, only after that third election cycle, the first thing. Secondly, the penalties provided for political parties in relation to the other penalties provided for in this law, so it was recently adopted, yesterday we voted on the Law on Prohibition of Discrimination are ridiculously low. Here, I think that's the right term for it. They're funny low. And secondly, they are discriminating among women as to whether the woman is a candidate in the municipal elections, in the city or county, or for the Croatian Parliament, respectively. In fact, a woman on the Parliament list is worth more than a woman on the municipal council list. I can't accept such a way of thinking and such discrimination, and therefore, as a SDP club, we have sent one amendment first to increase penalties, we suggest that they go up to 200 thousand kuna. And secondly, to be unique whether it is the municipal council, the city, the county, the election for the Croatian Parliament or the election for parliament. And I really ask colleagues and colleagues to try to support this amendment proposal because it seems to me that this way I believe that we could achieve that in the third election cycle we really do and we have that number of women of 40%. Unfortunately, I'm saying this right now, but I only have one side of the HDZ club and on the other side of the SDP club, so I guess that's something about interest. I hope that at least these two parties will be able to fulfill what we are proposing as SDP. Furthermore, today we have a lot of amendments it actually seems to me on the proposal of this law and I have to say that I was in fact slightly concerned by an amendment that came from the Committee on Legislatives which concerns Article 43 of this Law. In fact, Article 43 of this Law reads roughly as it reads in the current law and it says: "Laws, regulations and other regulations will comply with the provisions of this law." or the way I understand it, and I think I understand well that all the legal proposals, acts, regulations, etc. to comply with the standards that are written in this law. The way that it is now proposed that this article appears to be that this harmonisation with standards comes down to harmonising in the writing of male female names or that it comes down to whether or not the candidate and candidate, president – president, actor – actress or the like, which I find absolutely inadmissible in that way to derivate this provision of the law. Because otherwise, why do we pass this law if and all the other acts that we adopt after it if we adopt it with a qualified majority, so why should this bill if all the other laws, regulations and regulations are not regulated in relation to this bill? And finally, about employment discrimination. I personally do not think that even this law will help those discriminations that today are evident when it comes to the position of a woman in the labour market that will especially help for the simple reason that it seems to me that no matter what, you know that in the field of employment, we have had relatively good anti-discrimination provisions and in some other laws, and unfortunately they have not helped us much. And finally, I repeat, without the literal implementation and application of what is proposed in this law, unfortunately, the status of women will remain the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13818	Thank you. Honorable representative Mirela Holy. Here you go. ... He gave up. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Let go, I'm in charge of the session. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13819	Excuse me. Thank you, Vice President. So, as counterpart Mirjana Ferić-Vac said on behalf of the SDP's Club of Representatives and MPs, this extremely important document has already been announced by the SDP's Club of Representatives and Representatives will support this document. We will support it because the fight for society is without discrimination and without rule is the structure of the so-called. binary hierarchy fundamental identification of SDP. Unlike counterpart Damir Kajin, who has already spoken on several occasions from a pay phone rather unusually to a progressive politician that in Croatia we have in fact a society that can be praised with very great equality or gender equality I believe we live in a patriarchal and unfair culture. This claim was confirmed in a relatively recent manner by the prosecutor's report on gender equality. For this reason, I believe that the adoption of this organic law is of paramount importance for Croatia. I'll repeat what I already said when I was talking about the attorney general's report. We need to talk about this problem without beauty, fineness, self - control and without language hair. For what? Because it is indisputable that the Law on Gender Equality is being violated in the Parliament, in the Government, in the ministries and other public authorities, in political parties, so in all those structures that are most responsible for implementing this law, to demonstrate a clear and unequivocal political will, for the realisation of society, etc. parity democracy. And if there is no will to achieve a society of equality among political elites, why would these will be in the economic sector, in family and everyday life? It is a sad fact that such political will is gone, and even many politicians even speak of themselves as politicians at the state level as if giving up on their own expression when they speak of themselves will make it easier for them to succeed in their political careers. And perhaps that's unfortunately not so incorrect. It is particularly signifiable to me to avoid the use of natively sensitive language in the laws that we are discussing and which we are having in this House, which I have recently talked about today when I was discussing on behalf of the SDP Club on the Construction Products Act, which in Article 5 directly derogates the provisions of the Law on Gender Equality, which obliges the authorities of the state administration to respect the natively sensitive language or one move of the terms used for persons of male origin automatically declares neutral or defines that they relate to both male and female persons. And unfortunately this isn't the only case. We should mention the frequent ironic and sarcastic remarks of fellow MPs when we advocates dare to warn of non-compliance with the Law on Gender Equality in the part of respecting natively sensitive language in almost all calls, reports and other documents coming from most committees and which we receive daily on our benches. It's like the most normal thing in the world is that the term "representative" and "legislators" cover men and women. Instead of adopting new civilization standards such a way of expression, some MPs address us on such occasions as being petty and frustrated women. The fact is that we are most sensitive to the problem that we are directly concerned with, so I am very sensitive to how they treat me and my colleagues in the Parliament as well as our parties. That is why I was particularly intrigued by Chapter 6 and Article 15 of the Law on political parties and their obligations in respect of compliance with this law. I am not pleased that 40% of the representation of women in the Assembly is required only for 12 years or in the 3rd election cycle. I am also not satisfied with the ridiculously low penalties that political parties will face unless they respect the quotas for women's representation on the lists that amount to 50 thousand kuna for Parliament, and for the municipal, city and county councils 20 and 40 thousand kuna, because they do not mean that, because they mean, of course, that the parties will violate the law and the dead cold pay the fines and will not put women on the lists. In addition, whether graduations mean the punishments that Parliamentarians and MPs are more expensive than our colleagues and colleagues in municipal, city and county councils. The fifth chapter of the prosecutor's report on gender equality showed how politics or political parties respect the Law on Gender Equality or not respecting it. So I'm afraid that these mild and male sex-friendly provisions will do nothing to make such an unacceptable situation change. This also proves a miserable percentage of 20% of MPs in the Assembly, which is unnecessary to say significantly lags by 51% that women make in the total population of Croatia. As we live in a very material or money-oriented society, there may be an increase in the number of MPs and councils when the parties to the mandate of each representative or councilwoman from the state, local or regional budgets would receive no more than 10% of the money for MPs or councilors already 50% or even more of the money, so I suggest that amendments to the Law on political parties going that way. Why is it so important that women actively participate and act in politics? In 2007, the Centre for Women's Studies in Zagreb conducted a study of the perceptions and attitudes of Croatian citizens and citizens about political participation of women who showed that as many as 56.8% of respondents therefore both male and female people considered that increasing women in politics would have a positive impact on the quality of politics and probably because they were most likely thanks to the work of SDP politicians in the opinion of the surveyed politicians more freely and consistently in the implementation of political goals. I am sure that by increasing the number of women at all levels of political decision making a big positive qualitative shift, and therefore it is crucial that we are seriously working to achieve this goal, a goal that will result in a causative and consistent respect for the law that we are discussing today and which we will soon take because it is a step towards the realization of real parity democracy. The weaknesses of this bill are also inconsistencies in applying the principle of gender policies, the exclusion of gender identity and age as possible discriminatory grounds in the text of the law, but because of the exceptional importance of this law to achieve a society of equality, it will support this bill despite its not-so-little weaknesses.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13820	Thank you. And distinguished representative Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13821	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. So there is no dilemma that today the position of women in Croatian society is much, much better than it was in the 1990s, but I don't think we should be satisfied with the current situation. A few months ago, we had the opportunity to hear from the Ombudsman about gender equality and its 2007 report, and we have no real reason to be satisfied because the affirmation of women does not go at equal speed in all segments of society and certainly does not occur with equal intensity in all parts of this country. For example, if you open the website of the Croatian Employment Institute and look for the latest data on unemployment, you will find one optimistic sentence, a finding that says: Still a positive trend in the movement of unemployment at the monthly and annual level. So there's less unemployment, and of course it's looking forward to it, but I was interested in how much women's representation is in total unemployment. And those numbers aren't optimistic. In February 2008, the share of women in total unemployment was 61.3%. In the months that followed, that percentage increased to 61.7, to 62.1, 62.2, 62.5 and actually gradually increased. So overall unemployment falls, however, the share of women in total unemployment is growing. It's too late, but I really can't and I won't miss the chance to talk about discrimination against women. I will not because it is simply to be talked about and constantly point to this problem as much as in our country, and there are shifts to the better. I won't miss talking about the position of women in society and the concept of motherhood in that same society, and I think we really need to ask ourselves how today on the Croatian labour market we treat a woman who wants to start a family, a woman who wants to become a mother, and what are we as a society, as a state, doing to protect her? How do we protect her from the employer? So young people, as we have already heard, young women of potential mothers face discrimination already in employment itself. And interviews ask them questions that never ask men, and they're private. And notes of Bene and the law are forbidden. We live unfortunately in a society still full of prejudice and one of the better to call, one of the prejudices concerns the question of the family status of men and women. And it really sounds amazing that this status doesn't have the same weight for a man and a woman. Namely, when a man has a family, then it's an additional confirmation and proof that he's stable, balanced, that he's mature. And when a woman has a family, then that same family is a lasting source of deconcentration for her. Because he probably won't be able to devote enough to his job. When she becomes a mother or if she is, she will certainly not be able to work overtime and so on. So notorna is the fact that in the economic sphere in some activities we are completely marginalized and the more we climb on that hierarchical scale the share of women is getting smaller, that I am not talking about women of the presidents of the courts, of the state lawyers, of the directors of the KBC. I think we have two college deans all over the country, if you don't mind. It must be clear to us that the adoption of this law is not complete and the law itself is not enough to change the position of women in society, and so on the labour market for the better. Because I don't think he's working it out, this law doesn't essentially solve it. He may not be able to do it, but the important thing is that we are aware of it, he does not solve a fundamental problem in Croatian society, and that is, in my opinion, the position of a family in society and the position of a woman in that same family. And I think it really needs to change the overall social climate that begins and is created in kindergarten, continues through education, through employment. The position of a woman will not change until this traditional notion of the role of a woman in society is changed. We have experience in Nordic countries where discrimination develops still in kindergarten and women are everywhere in the workplace and in the leading places and in politics and no one wonders and wonders why it is so. I know it's some general principles we talk about very often, and we women are aware that it's social processes that have some kind of internal dynamic and legality. Unfortunately, however, this fact is very often used as an alibi for the lack of political will to move things faster, to encourage and direct the process, and I believe that in Croatian society we have too many problems to leave them to some internal dynamics of the process. And it must simply be clear to us that the problems in this society cannot be solved through the neglect of 51% of the population not because of the fact that it is women, not because of that, but because of the fact that when we talk about so-called. In fact, we are talking about the basis of each and so of Croatian society. I want to comment on a part that, that part of the law relating to women's participation in politics. Don't mind me, but I don't think there's really any real, serious political will that will allow women to get more into politics, at least this law doesn't show it. And the position of women in politics is also not something they might be pleased with. There are 21% of us in Parliament. But it makes me happy exactly the fact that this percentage is exactly what it is thanks to the participation of women from my party. Article 12 of this Law states that the representation of one sex, we know which, in the bodies of political and public decision, must not be below 40%. And what do you say to this? Well, finally, let's welcome that. Since the very beginning of my political action, I have been advocating so-called positive discrimination, the same one my party installed in its statute many years ago, the one which, thanks to which the SDP's are the most in Parliament. For what? Because we are a young democracy, because we are a patriarchal society, because some processes simply need to be accelerated, because women should be given a chance and finally and most importantly because positive discrimination is a tool that helps women in some social processes and is not their argument. I'm sorry we didn't make a bigger step out of this law. I think we're dealing with cosmetics again, not essentially, and I'll tell you what I think would be the point. In my view, it would be essential that at all levels in this country, services that would be available to women, who would be available to families. So, gardens at affordable prices, adequate working hours. The point would be to launch a discussion on household work, i.e. The job of a housewife who's as valuable as working outside the house. Which is why, for example, you do not suggest experiences that exist in other democratic, developed countries. For example, the Dutch and the Danes passed a law that we obviously can only dream of, that when a female politician goes on maternity leave, she can be replaced with a colleague on the list during which she uses maternity leave. I wonder when we'll be waiting for that. If we truly care about the position of women in society and politics, if we agree that the question of women is actually a question of family and fundamental social value, then I regret why Article 15 is the way it is. I'll be done soon, the more my colleagues talked about it. I think it is indeed a shame that we hold that only in 2019 we can and should expect the participation of women in the policy that already exists in developed democratic European countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13822	Thank you. Does a government official want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13823	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We're moving on with the session. In fact, we're voting on the points of the agenda. We are going to the Final Proposal for a Law on Gender Equality, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 136. The debate is closed. The review of the amendment has been submitted to you on benches. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to show up on the amendments. Madam Vice President and Minister Jadranka Kosor. Excuse me, Mrs. Rocksandic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13824	Thank you. Mr. President, on behalf of the HDZ Club, please accept the proposal to vote manually on the amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13825	General?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13826	Generally today.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13827	Thank you very much. We're going to the First Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13828	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13829	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, who wants to? Here you go. This amendment was not accepted by the Government. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 2. Amendment of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities to Article 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13830	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. The government does not accept this amendment because these issues are regulated by another regulation, the Law on Discussion of Discrimination, recently adopted by the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13831	On behalf of the Human Rights Committee? There's no one here. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. The amendment didn't get the necessary majority. 3. Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13832	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13833	This amendment becomes an integral part of the proposal. 4, Amendment to the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13834	Mr. President, the Government does not accept this amendment because this law does not regulate the area of employment and work in relation to age.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13835	Thank you. On behalf of the Representatives Club, Ms. Mirjana Vac.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13836	Mr. President, Madam Minister. We believe that this amendment should be accepted because it improves this text in any case and is in line with the discussions that were being held here.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13837	We vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 5, Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP to Article 14.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13838	Mr. President. The Government does not accept this amendment because this article provides for the inclusion of content related to gender equality in content or programmes at all levels of education and for an unnecessary way of implementing that provision to be developed by this law, and this is proposed by the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13839	Thank you. On behalf of the club? Ms. Representative Feric-Vac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13840	Mr. President, Madam Minister. The amendments are on the trail of goodwill and good faith that this is a law that improves both status and contributes to it. We're asking for a vote on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13841	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. 6th Legislative Committee on Article 15
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13842	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13843	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 7, Amendment to the Committee on Gender Equality, Article 15.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13844	Article 2 The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13845	This amendment becomes an integral part of the proposal. 8 of the SDP Representatives Club, as referred to in Article 15(2).
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13846	Mr. President. In part, the government accepts the amendment in a way that is beyond the word "sensibly unbalanced" the words "in accordance with Article 12(3) of this Law" and the basis of the adopted amendment by the Committee on Gender Equality.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13847	Mrs. Vac. Here you go. Do you agree with this formulation?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13848	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13849	Thank you very much. The government's formulation of this amendment has been accepted. 9, SDP Representatives' Club, Article 15(2).
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13850	Mr. President. The government does not accept this amendment. In particular, it is proposed that the provision of Article 15(2) which determines the gradual increase of the sub-represented sex in accordance with Article 12 of this Law should therefore be prescribed by at least 40% in the third election cycle so that political parties can prepare for this provision.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13851	Thank you. Ms. Representative Feric-Vac.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13852	Mr. President, Madam Minister. This key amendment that we are submitting follows those events in the Republic of Croatia. We have a national policy, we have a law. Nothing happens all of a sudden one morning. This law, in fact this paragraph, our amendment is aimed at gradually doing something rather than waiting for 2019 to suddenly happen. On representation, the exact gender representation has already been sufficiently discussed in this building. These are the commitments we have made to various conventions and would be consistent with the development of democracy if these temporary incentive measures were so arranged to improve on each election round. It's something that's fundamental in democracy to allow that development, not to ask for 15 years, or I don't know how much of a result. Thank you very much. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13853	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. 10, amendment of the Committee on Legislatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13854	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13855	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 11, Club of Representatives of the SDP, Article 18.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13856	The government does not accept this amendment. In fact, the affairs of the Gender Equality Office have clearly been established, of course, by this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13857	Thank you. Mrs. Feric-Vac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13858	Madam Minister, Mr. President. We're actually looking for something to become just one practice. The implementation report had to become a practice but it is nothing that does not exist in parliaments and that has not already been adopted in part in our Parliament. I'm asking for a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13859	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I'd like to inform the Parliament that 142 MPs are present, in the meantime, we've counted. We're moving on to 12, amendment of the HNS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13860	Mr. President, the government does not accept this amendment because it is proposed to establish a new body, an alliance for gender equality. The government considers that all of these jobs listed in the amendment of the HNS Club are already being carried out, i.e. they are extended by the adoption of this law and through the Office for Gender Equality of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but of course also through the Advocate's Office, i.e. the Ombudsman for Gender Equality.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13861	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13862	We regret that the government is afraid of the possible influence of the academic community and representatives of civil society as much as there is a similar structure in some other areas such as civil society because the government also has its own office, and the advice is important to help all the problems that are relevant to this area be considered from as many rakurs as possible here and here. We think that representatives of the civil sector and the academic community should be able to help the government implement this law. We're also asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13863	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thanks, he didn't get the necessary majority. 13th Amendment of the Legislative Committee to Article 23?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13864	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13865	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 14. Legislative Committee on Article 27?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13866	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13867	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 15. The Committee on Gender Equality?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13868	Mr. President, the Government partially accepts this amendment, so in a way that the existing text of Article 29 becomes paragraph 1 and a new paragraph 2 is added: "if units of local self-government in accordance with Article 28(3), the urban and municipal committees for gender equality, the means for their work are provided by units of local self-government."
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13869	Thank you. On behalf of the Committee on Gender Equality, Madam Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13870	In that case, the committee shall withdraw its amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13871	Do you accept this formulation?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13872	It is.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13873	Thank you. A formulation proposed by the Vice-President was accepted. 16. The Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13874	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13875	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 17. The Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13876	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13877	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 18. The Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13878	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13879	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 19. The Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13880	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13881	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 20. A SDP counseling club?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13882	Mr. President, the government does not accept this amendment. In accordance with the Infringement Act for the perpetrators of the offences of a natural person cannot be prescribed or imposed a greater penalty, or punishment greater than 50 thousand kuna, and that is why we cannot accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13883	Thank you. On behalf of the club, Mrs. Feric-Vac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13884	Mr. President, Madam Minister. What was proposed by the law is actually unrealistic and can simply produce counterfacts, so we asked for a punishment like this. I'm asking you to vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13885	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thanks, he didn't get the necessary majority. 21st Amendment of the Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13886	Mr. President, the government partially accepts the amendment in a way that is behind the word "twenty thousand" to add the words "cun". The amendment to the Legislative Committee was this statement of 20,000, but there was no kuna, so we suggest that the amendment be adopted in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13887	The Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13888	This section accepts, or this segment?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13889	Yeah, yeah. Of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13890	So this formulation is being accepted?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13891	Yes, it's acceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13892	Thank you by the board. And now we've got the misspelled 25th and so on. 26th and 27th. It shall be rectified on 22, 23, etc. 22nd Amendment of the Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13893	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13894	There's an integral part that's hidden. 23. The Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13895	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13896	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 24. The Legislative Committee? It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 25. The Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13898	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13899	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 26. The Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13900	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13901	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 27. The Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13902	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13903	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 28. The Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13904	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13905	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. And that's what we're with, thank you very much, Vice President. Please let's get involved to see first the quorum that actually existed, but let's see how big it was. The result was 133 MPs were involved. This law is passed by a majority of the votes of all MPs, so at least 77 votes are required for this law to vote. I therefore give the vote the final proposal for a law on gender equality. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This law was voted in favour of most votes, 134 votes in favour, 4 abstentions and one against.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13906	Let's go to point seven - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Protection Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 135 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was held: the Committee on Lawmaking, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, the Committee on Gender Equality, the Committee on Development and Reconstruction and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Vera Babic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy and Labour.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13907	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Very briefly, Madam Representatives and Gentlemen Representatives. It is therefore a legislative initiative which in one part concerns the establishment of institutional capacities in the field of protection at work. So when we talk about harmonising and joining the Republic of Croatia in full membership and procedures and mechanisms, it is not only about normative, therefore formal harmonisation, but also about making our institutional framework also competent and able to implement laws consistently and thus legal gain. So, in one part of here, it's about strengthening the institutional framework through the Institute for Health and Safety at Work. I will remind this House that the already basic assumptions here are created by the new Protection Act, on health insurance of health protection at work and on health care that the novels have been voted back maybe a month in this House, so this is about, among other things, horizontal harmonisation of regulations, and here is something more detailed about the activities of this institution, the new institution that comes from the Croatian Institute of Medicine and the Department of Labour Protection, which should have functioned in its own time within the competent ministry of labour, but this has not been achieved. Another important thing is that this proposal is finally brought into line with all the elements of the directive on temporary and mobile construction sites, since construction is one of the, so to speak, the most risky activities when it comes to professional risks arising from protection at work. The same is the part relating to the National Strategy for the Prevention of Drug Abuse and Action Plan, while establishing an obligation to develop preventive programmes to prevent drug abuse at work, and the other interventions are related to horizontal harmonisation and nomotechnical improvement. As I am told, the amendments that have arrived so far have been presented, amendments to the Committee on Legislatives and Amendments, Commissioner Ljubice Lukačić, I am free, Mr Vice-President, on behalf of the Proposer, to declare that I also accept amendments to the Committee on Legislatives and to the amendment of Ms. Lukačić. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13908	Thank you. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee, which has already been heard by a respected representative. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. And on behalf of the SDP club, the esteemed representative Dino Kozlevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13909	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, it's too late and I will try as quickly as possible to say a few words on behalf of the SDP club. It's an uncontestable law, and you'll all agree which is one of the most important laws in the field of labour-social laws. It's about a law that affects, i.e. prescribes the safety of workers, protects workers and reduces the dangers of achieving the fundamental right of workers, which is the right to work. With its adoption in '97, and particularly with significant changes and additions from 2003, the law has made a significant shift in the field of protection at work and has made it possible to meet the standards applying developed economies and societies in the world. The International Labour Organisation Conventions and the European Union Directives are the basis for this. The Regulation on protection of work by the nature of its mission or mission is, as a rule, conflict between the primary interest of the employer in achieving the best business, rational and profit. the reduction of operating costs, as often as possible and the protection of work and protection measures on the work and interests of the state and society as a whole, to primarily protect workers from dangers, and thus the costs that fall on the burden of society as a consequence of accidents at work. The transition economies which have been in difficulty or are located determines protection at work as a cost or an excessive cost with a tendency to take minimum conditions. That this is so, testifying unfortunately to the constant accidents that we witness almost daily and visually when we look at various construction sites, we can detect how many workers or no or no means of protection at work, without talking about a large number of measures that should be taken for means of protection at work, equipment, various devices, etc. What is the situation despite the uncontested shift is the data of the promoters of these changes and the addition of accidents on work based on the data of the State Inspectorate, the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance and the State Institute for Statistics, which is the number of more than 24 thousand accidents in 2005, over 25 thousand accidents in 2007. However statistically we observe them, you will agree that the number is large and that our task is to reduce that number through a quality law, i.e. to reduce it. eliminate, although it is absolutely impossible to eliminate the dangers, such protection measures will be implemented which will completely eliminate the dangers. The protection of work is a multidisciplinary activity, a subject of scientific research, and which, throughout the world, represents the interest of the state, employers and trade unions. The proposed amendments to the law with the establishment of institutional forms through the institution are deregulated in part, i.e. determines a more liberal commitment of employers in a particular part and give a more free choice to the employer to choose how to carry out professional job protection at work, and thus initially reduce costs, which is not bad and represents a certain rationalisation. But here comes the problem, which is how to ensure quality law enforcement that we do not have the opportunity to have quality law and quality regulation, but with law enforcement we practically derrogate and intent legally, or what is prescribed through the law. One of the elements, i.e. one of the important things in the implementation of the Labour Protection Act, is quality control over the implementation of the Labour Protection Act in all segments. Oversight is very important because we ensure that these measures are carried out in a quality way. If this part of the work protection system doesn't work completely then there's a problem, i.e. There is a lower level of quality of protection at work, and ultimately we still have present damages. Therefore, it is necessary through an even more efficient organisation of the inspection service, i.e. The inspection service should be monitored not only in the formal sense of filling the existing frameworks, but also by looking at the total number of problems, i.e. the total number, i.e. the width of the problems that are taking place in the protection of work, but also by more quality teaming of inspections. There are problems in working today. In fact, we are not law enforcement, and we are witnessing that there are legal persons on the market, i.e. in the market conditions of business dealing with occupational protection. The majority of legal persons involved in the protection of their work meet the legal conditions and the prescribed conditions as legal and sublegislative, one part at the border of meeting these conditions, and one part does not meet those conditions. In that case, it comes in the implementation, i.e. in the performance of professional activities, that is to say that the quality and level of protection at work in any case is lower and the problem is to derogate, i.e. that these jobs are offered for indemnity, i.e. competitiveness is also present, i.e. unfair competition on the market precisely because someone does not meet the legal requirements, it can afford a different price. All of this therefore creates one situation for these labour protection measures to be observed primarily through the rationalisation of business, i.e. as little cost and satisfaction as possible with the implementation of these measures, and on the other hand, the unquality of the handling of these transactions. It is with these amendments to the law, which is as good as I said before, that there is a more liberal relationship that allows more legal persons to be able to trust those jobs to a professional legal person. This means that these tasks can be better done, but the condition that they are satisfied with the supervision, or the inspection, above all is very important. I must also point out that the autonomy of the inspector should be greater in that part. As they are set up today in the framework of inspection services, we believe that the autonomy of inspectors in particular in this important part should be greater, i.e. to enable more quality and efficiency of these tasks exclusively defined by the Labour Protection Act. Finally, allow when and when I am with this supervision, i.e. as legal persons must meet the legal requirements prescribed from professional preparation to other conditions, it would also be very important for inspectors who oversee protection at work to be primarily one of the conditions that they have completed high-school protection at work or appropriate other professional arrangements. I am saying this for the reasons that the Republic of Croatia has had a quality system of working protection training for many years, there are high schools from Zagreb, Karlovac, Rijeka. We therefore believe that there are enough personnel and that these inspection services can be even better equipped with professionals in order to improve their quality of the work. Here's what I'd end up with, and ultimately, we're going to be the ones to amend the Labour Protection and Support Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13910	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Honorable Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13911	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here's what I'm going to try not to repeat these parts we heard from the opening debate and fellow MPs. However, at the beginning of our debate, I would still like to say that by adopting this law, the Republic of Croatia will, in addition to further progress in meeting established criteria by the European Union, make a positive step in the field of protection in the field of work with an emphasis on construction as we have seen from the material attached. Analysing the proposed solutions, we believe that the bill is very solid and that in its preparation the detected irregularities in the Republic of Croatia in this area have been detected and removed. Its adoption also aims to further formulate the state's determination to improve the overall area of safety at work. We consider a good solution in the law to create normative assumptions for the establishment of a new institution responsible for health and safety at work, which will grow from the existing Croatian Institute of Labour Medicine. Terminological alignment with the provisions of other laws and regulations relating to the field of protection at work. The creation of a prerequisite for permanent action of safety experts at work in employers. Determination of the obligation of lifelong education and training of skills for work protection experts. Determination of the period until which an employee can work if he is not qualified to work in a safe manner. Proposal for amendments that will make it easier for labour inspectors to carry out tasks in certain cases. Harmonisation of extended commitments in the area of construction. We would also like to point out some open issues in the overall field of protection at work, which have been perceived in public so far. There are known facts that various jobs are performed not only at desks and shops but also in laboratories, for machines with increased hazards and operating rooms, but also on the ground, as well as for new technologies to bring new threats to employee health. In spite of the clear legal obligation of each employer and the state to implement legal obligations, we are not sure whether the conditions for safe work and protection of workers' health are fully or sufficiently ensured, as are the following examples. It is questionable to obtain or regularly obtain, i.e. the use of personal protective means. It is questionable whether training is carried out for a worker truly or fictitiously. It is doubtful whether there are even how many regular examinations of the machines and devices of the working environment factor and of the electrical and lightning installations. It is doubtful whether inspectors regularly come into supervision as well as what kind of records they are working on, as some legal persons may also be able to put a key in the lock. The non-implementation of labour protection measures sometimes also has judicial procedures for damages caused by injuries to work. Also, according to the results of the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions, employers' care for health and safety has led Croatia to one of the first places in Europe. We would also like to highlight a bright point, which is that one of the reasons and a little positive trend in reducing labour injuries and occupational diseases in recent years is a sign that employers have begun to recognise the need for full implementation of the Labour Protection Act as part of their business as a profitable investment because investment in prevention prevents many unwanted actions. In this respect, we hope that the competent authorities and employers will make their full contribution in order to improve the effectiveness of labour protection measures. Finally, I would like to stress that, by adopting this law in the HSS, we expect a more significant improvement in the state of protection at work especially in construction and therefore the HSS club will support the proposed amendments and amendments to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13912	Thank you. Does a government official want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when they get the necessary conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13913	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Protection Act, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 135 The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislatives Committee and MP Ljubica Lukačić. The representative of the motions at the session accepted the amendments and they become an integral part of the final draft law and are not voted on. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Protection Act. Please, let's get on with it. Let's vote. The result? The law was adopted by a majority with 121 votes in favour and 2 abstentions along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13914	And 8th point, that is - Final proposal of the Export and Import Act of military use and non-military killings, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 133 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Defence Committee. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and by representative Boris Šprem. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Tamara Obradović Mazal, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Work.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13915	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Very short. This Draft Proposal for a Law on Exporting and Importing of Military Uses and Non-military Murders, proposed by the Government in an emergency procedure, united first and second reading is part of the accession negotiations for membership in the European Union, and in Chapter 31 of the foreign and defence policy. It regulates, i.e. we propose, in the form of a legal act, the regulation on the determination of goods exported and imported on the basis of licences, which is an integral part and a list of military use goods. Since the area of export and import control of military use goods and non-military means of killing for commercial purposes in the Republic of Croatia has become a question to raise to the level of the law and to install four legal acts of the European Union in the legal text. Therefore, this need for the adoption of laws to ensure full control of exports and imports of goods of military use and non-military means of killing, as well as the provision of services for military use. In addition to the conditions for exporting and importing goods of military use and non-military killings, we regulate and provide services relating to goods of military use, we prescribe the competences of the authorities of the state administration involved in its implementation, rights and obligations of exporters, importers and service providers, and the conditions for carrying out the activities prescribed by this Proposal of the Law, as well as supervision and administrative measures for offenders of this law when national, or foreign policy interests of the Republic of Croatia are at risk. In the proposed text of the law, as well as in the case of a law that was discussed and voted in the Croatian Parliament. It's about double-use goods. We are also introducing new definitions and concepts that have been taken over from the legal gain of the European Union, and this is about the definition of brokering services, i.e. technical assistance. In order to revive this law in practice, i.e. to continue to allow the application of the order of the list of goods of military use, the Government will, within 60 days of the date of entry into force of this law, adopt a regulation on the goods of military use, as well as a regulation on non-military killings. The goods to be placed in both lists and now under the authorisation regime and for which exports and imports are based by the Regulation establishing the goods to be exported and imported on the basis of the permits required by the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship as competent institutions. Perhaps a brief reference to the very concepts of military use, as well as the non-war murder weaponry. In fact, the goods of military use are mainly constructed and constructed, assembled and modified for military purposes, including related technology and software. However, non-military means of killing are goods defined by the list, a special list of non-war killings. They are used for commercial purposes, but, of course, because of their technical characteristics and scope of use, they require export and import controls. For example, such as hunting or sports weapons, parts thereof, and ammunition used in such weapons. As with dual-use goods, the brokerage services we introduce as new concepts mean the negotiation or contracting of purchases, sales, or the purchase of such goods, and technical assistance as a new definition introduced by this Final Proposal of the Law means any technical assistance relating to repair, development, production relating to the goods of military use, which may also have the form of training instructions, i.e. the transfer of business knowledge or professional advisory services. Here in short, this is a summary of the basic features of the final bill and the novel that we introduce in the form of legal text. As I have said, the existing regime is currently based only on the Regulation on goods exported and imported on the basis of licences, but also on the practice and legal property itself requires the adjustment of this activity, i.e. at the level of the legal text. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13916	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. We have one application for a debate on behalf of the SDP club, the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13917	I would like to thank Mr Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, representatives of the motionary. So this law covers one piece of arms traffic. It might be better if that part were small and larger, or if our exports were a little larger in that activity to fix the balance sheet. The arms trade is one of the activities by which the public has access to suspicion and suspicion, but no doubt that the regulated state and this activity must be properly regulated. It's not good when secret procurements become public parties for the public, because then people who do this job get kind of suspicious, and they're being approached with suspicion. This law, in the most appropriate way, regulates this matter by taking into account the current practice and experience which is therefore based only on four articles of the Regulation. I will remind myself in 2002 of the Law on Transport, Production and Remonting of Arms and Military Equipment where it is envisaged that one part of the jobs under this law is being carried out by the Agency "Alan". Now this is sort of putting it in the jurisdiction of other state bodies, which I think is good. Each state must find the right measure in which it enables companies that legally operate and employ workers, pay taxes, and deal with this activity to earn and enable the state to earn profits through taxes, but on the other hand it should avoid the state suffering from damages because its companies are operating with states which are in some way blacklisted. For this reason, the role of the foreign ministry's representative in the commission referred to in Article 6 is particularly important, and its role in this committee is, in our opinion, the biggest basis for their knowledge is, in fact, the most important reason for the denial of export goods to countries under sanctions, or on some other, to call them black lists. The interest of the state is certainly always ahead of the company's interest and this compromise in this activity must not be. Those people who chose to deal with the profession, to deal with the arms trade, they were aware. It was kind of put into service. The proposed law protects the interests of the Republic of Croatia to the greatest extent, and we hope that its application will not limit the possibility of exports and these goods too much, of course according to the criteria prescribed there. A world without weapons, unfortunately, is not yet possible. We are pleased when the language of weapons in Croatia was prevailing behind us. We are pleased that our country is no longer on any lists when it was previously under the embargo, which has made it much more difficult for us to defend ourselves in the time of the Homeland War which has driven some people who wish to help us to break the sanctions of their countries and today may be responding to this to help Croatia. We are pleased, therefore, that the Republic of Croatia and this law are harmonising their legislation with the European Union and the SDP club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13918	Thank you. Does a government official want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. That's the last time I've been told today. He'll be back tomorrow. This concludes today's session, so please let me just give you some information that we'll start at point 15 tomorrow morning. Interpletion on the work of Finance Minister Ivan Šuker, the applicant of the twenty-four representatives of the Croatian Parliament, that the clubs and then we will continue to do all the interpretations and the point of commission of the investigation committee, with representatives of all clubs agreeing that on behalf of only one representative on behalf of the club and the other that only one correction of the incorrect allegations can be discussed from each club. It's a good deal that all clubs have agreed on, and that's what we're done with tonight. Thank you very much. Tomorrow morning we will continue at 9.30 with the session 9.30. [[/Intruder: 9.30?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13919	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Export and Import Act of Military Use and Non-war Murder, Emergency Procedure, P.Z.E. No. 133. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and by representative Boris Šprem. I ask Mrs. Obradovic-Mazal, State Secretary, to declare the amendments. 1 Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives. There are two amendments, 1 in Articles 46, 47 and 48.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13920	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13921	It becomes an integral part of the bill. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13922	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13923	It becomes an integral part of the bill. And the amendment of Mr Boris Shprem to Article 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13924	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-10-0.u13925	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Thank you very much. I am voting on the final draft of the export and import laws of military use and non-military means of killing. Please, let's get on with it. Let's vote. The result? The law was passed by a majority vote with 120 votes for, 3 abstentions and nothing against, together with the amendments adopted. Good morning, everyone! Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, continue the session with the agenda item - Interpelation on the work of Minister of Finance, Ivan Šuker, Carriers: 24 representatives of the Croatian Parliament Representatives of the Croatian Parliament based on Article 190. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament submitted this interpretation. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. Does the proposing representative want to show himself? Mr. Dragutin Lesar's representative. Here you go.
