ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u15034	We're moving on with our work. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In accordance with the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament of 10 October 2008 and announced by the Prime Minister of Justice and Minister of the Interior, we will now be informed of the activities undertaken so far and planned in the fight against corruption, organised crime and the improvement of the physical and legal security of citizens of the Republic of Croatia. First in our midst, I welcome Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia Jadranka Kosor and Minister Tomislav Karamarko, Interior Minister and Justice Minister Ivan Shimonovic. The first one will be addressed by the Minister of Justice, the Honorable Ivan Šimonovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u15035	Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs and MPs. It is my great honor to address you for the first time as Minister of Justice. Many of you know, and I appreciate it from before, and it will be a pleasure to meet those I don't know yet. I hope that we will cooperate well and successfully and that I will justify the trust you have shown me by confirming me as minister. I thank you for the opportunity to expose what the Ministry of Justice is doing and what it intends to do in the fight against organised crime and corruption. Although it is in the focus of today’s review of organised crime I will also talk about corruption. Namely, organised crime and corruption, especially high-level corruption closely linked. It is the abuse of power and public authority that gives organised crime a chance to spread. What's the status? Dear MPs and MPs, the situation with organised crime is very serious in Croatia. There's a lot of reason for that. Organised crime and corruption has in all transition states but Croatia has, at the same time, created its own state apparatus and fought aggression, while also smuggling weapons to defend itself. It is no wonder, therefore, that the social climate has been more favourable to the development of organised crime and corruption than to the rule of law. It is important to understand where organised crime and corruption in Croatian society are from, but not to justify how we got where we are, but to effectively oppose organised crime. It should act quickly and resolutely. Organized crime and corruption have waved to such an extent that they pose a serious threat to the safety of our citizens and our European ambitions. Besides, what we don't do today will be even harder tomorrow. In times of global recession and crisis, organised crime generally increases rather than weakens. That is why it is high time for an energetic, systematic and uncompromising fight with organised crime and corruption. Citizens are upset and ask the Croatian state for energetic action and rapid results. Croatia's version of sabre is also called. It's good, because it cuts fast and energetically, but it's bad because it cuts indiscriminately, so the mafia suffers human rights. The democratic states therefore, as long as possible, keep the saber in its covers, but given the current degree of social threat in Croatia, it is obvious that aspirin is not even real therapy, it removes symptoms but the disease continues to develop. We have to stop the disease but without the saber. Dear MPs and MPs, we need neither saber nor aspirin but scalpel. It cuts deeply and resolutely but professionally and precisely. Let me inform you what the Ministry of Justice is doing to ensure that an operation to remove organised crime and corruption from Croatian society is successful. The Department of Justice is neither a diagnostician nor a surgeon, which does not hold a scalpel in its hand, but in order for the operation to be successful, it must provide suitable conditions, good instruments and a professional team. Court proceedings against organised crime and corruption should be conducted more quickly and efficiently. To this end, the Ministry of Justice has already reached appropriate arrangements with the Supreme Court president and the presidents of the county courts. They are all aware of the situation and are willing to contribute to repairing the situation. It is agreed that procedures against organised crime and corruption should be set out as high as possible, investigations should be speeded up and hearings filed as soon as possible. Within 2 weeks, there must be no more than one case from the jurisdiction of the SCIKK for which the courts have not scheduled a hearing, if procedural assumptions have been reached for this. But of course, that's not nearly enough. In order to deal more effectively with organised crime and corruption, we need a more vigorous application of existing powers and legal opportunities as well as serious organisational and regulatory changes. Dear MPs and MPs, we don't have time to change, we don't have time to wait, the changes have to be quick. It is necessary to simultaneously act and plan further actions. I have already taken those organisational measures to combat organised crime and corruption, which are at my disposal. Today, by publishing in the National Journal, a new Rules of Procedure that brings significant news is in effect. In the four county courts in Zagreb, Split, Rijeka and Osijek, special USKOK departments are established, and USKOK departments at the level of municipal courts will be established in these cities. Judges, as well as other court personnel who will work in the USKOK departments will be selected according to the criteria of ability and willingness to cope with the greatest professional challenges. They will be provided with special professional training and will be further encouraged and rewarded. With this change, we will ensure greater expertise and determination in the fight against organised crime, but also allow for greater speed of action. Judges and administrative staff will pass the necessary security changes and act separately from the rest of the courts, thus ensuring confidentiality in the course of the proceedings. I also used my powers and changed the rules on the benefits of prisoners who are also in effect today. For the rest of the prisoners, nothing more important changes, but for those convicted of organised crime and corruption, it certainly is. Already today, how and how much I can communicate with the outside world, telephone, receive visits, get out of prison, decide on the basis of a security assessment provided by the specialized USKOK police, which will be told more by Minister Karamarko. In addition, those convicted or accused of acts under the jurisdiction of the USKOK will no longer be able to visit prisons of those currently serving the sentence for the same acts. This will prevent the meeting and action of organised crime representatives in prisons. I would like to point out that the purpose of these changes is not to make it generally difficult for prisoners to serve sentences, however, the conditions of serving penalties and, in particular, the spatial conditions in prisons must be improved in a hasty manner. But the prison regime of organised crime should simply adapt to the risks that they pose to society. In addition to the measures I could take under my powers, it is necessary to introduce a number of other instruments that will help to address organised crime and corruption more effectively. Their introduction, respected MPs and MPs will also require your help, or normative changes. It is an anti-mafia package announced by the prime minister, primarily concerning amendments to the Penal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Law on Police Powers. In this report, I will present them only briefly. The justice ministry will propose a change in the Penal Code that facilitates the confiscation of mafia property. Only during 2007 during the conduct of criminal proceedings against organised crime. Under the USKOK Act, their assets worth more than 15m euros have been frozen. The legal change that I am in favour of will allow for the completion of the proceedings with judgments, a large part of such property and the confiscation. The penal code has so far allowed the confiscation of property acquired by criminal acts. The key news is that in the future, all property of those convicted of participating in organised crime, corruption and other serious criminal offences will be considered unlawfully acquired and will be seized unless the convicted proves that he has acquired it in a legitimate manner. In other words, those convicted of appropriate crimes are deemed to have acquired all their property illegally, unless they prove that they have acquired it legally. That's where the mob gets hit, where it hurts the most, in her wallet. As part of the amendment to the Penal Code, a wider possibility of police collecting DNA from a data bank will also be proposed to facilitate the detection of perpetrators of criminal offences without jeopardising the right to privacy and human rights of citizens. The appropriate amendments to the Penal Code will appear in the first reading before the Parliament before the end of this year. The Ministry of Justice also proposes to amend the Law on Criminal Procedure with a view to making criminal proceedings more rapid and effective. The investigation will be conducted by the State's Attorney's office and conducted by the police. The investigating judge is turning into a judge who no longer conducts an investigation but controls whether the State's Attorney General who conducts the investigation respects the rules of procedure and human rights of the defendants. It's about big and far-reaching changes. The proposal to change the CAP will soon be sent to the Assembly for a second reading, and should be adopted in early 2009. With all the efforts of applying these newspapers throughout the system, it is possible only after appropriate preparation. The proposal to amend the Criminal Procedure Act, which passed the first reading in the Assembly, provides for a period of three years for their application. In the version that we're about to submit to the second reading, we're going to cut this deadline for USKOK procedures drastically short. We will propose that in USKOK cases a new model of investigation has started to apply within 6 months of the amendments to the law, so somewhere since June 2009. This means additional effort, education and monetary costs for the State's Attorney's Office and the police but also brings great benefits. First, we speed up and lift efficiency in our most important procedures and secondly, it is a pilot project from which the rest of the system will be able to learn what will facilitate its adaptation. In addition, the application of new solutions will begin in the field of USKOK procedures where we will have the highest concentration of human and material resources and, of course, the most favourable conditions for success. There will be other changes to the CAP. Without effective witness and penitent protection, there is no successful fight against organised crime. In the CAP, we will therefore install a provision that guarantees the protection of not only witnesses but also potential witnesses. This will protect them from threats and pressures and facilitate their decision to testify against organised crime. When witnesses and penitent persons need to be provided with protection under a new identity in another country, but these issues are within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of the Interior. Also on the Law on Police Authorities will be said more by Minister Karamarko. This otherwise very important law is further gaining weight in light of the change in the CAP and the fact that the police and the State Attorney's Office will directly cooperate in conducting the investigation, so it is very important to clearly define their responsibilities. Honorable MPs and MPs allow me to sum up. What is crucial in organisational terms is that an improved functionally integrated system is already being developed in the fight against organised crime. USKOK-police, State's Attorney's Office, and finally USKOK courts. In all of this vertical, a special mode of energy, urgency and confidentiality in conduct applies. This organisational structure will need more work and development. In this vertical fight against organised crime and corruption, financial and customs instruments of control will need to be more closely imported. The ministry of justice and other competent ministries will need organisational and personnel strengthening. The entire state apparatus will have to act together and coordinated. In addition to the above, a number of other legal solutions will need to be complemented. It'll all have to do in walking because there's no time. It is not because of the urgent need to deal effectively with organised crime and corruption and because of the need to adapt quickly to European Union standards. Dear MPs and MPs allow me finally and a short look at the wider picture. In Croatia, we must strengthen the rule of law not only through the change of institutions but also through the change of the general atmosphere. Respect for the law, our Croatians, in the democratic procedure of the passed laws should finally begin to experience it as a moral duty. We need to raise the reputation of the legal profession, especially judicial duties. A good judiciary is the foundation of a rule of law. In that sense, I will only indicate some upcoming reforms. Only clear criteria will allow for the judicial duty; testing and ranking lists according to the results achieved. The candidates for judges after completing the Faculty of Law and a passed judicial exam will also have a special additional education and after they become judges and the duty of lifelong education. Judges must in principle be life-long in order to be independent of political will. But their results should be periodically monitored and critically evaluated according to objective criteria. The results achieved according to these same criteria should also be decisive for further career progress of judges. The legal profession itself will best know how to establish reliable and objective criteria and thus contribute to strengthening the reputation of its profession. Dear Mr. Chairman, esteemed MPs and MPs allow me to conclude. Organized crime and corruption have not been in Croatia since yesterday, and they have crawled into various segments of society. But Croatia has successfully overcome far more serious challenges since its independence. If crime is organized, we must be better organized. There's nothing to be afraid of but fear alone. We will not be saved by a miracle but only by forceful, systematic and uncompromising action. A suitable tool for removing the mafia from Croatian society is not a saber but is not an aspirin but a scalpel. It is important that we know clearly what we want, what are the tasks of which and what are the deadlines of execution. In order to fight organised crime and corruption, it is necessary to get the broadest support and not only here in the Parliament but in the whole society. That's why today's debate is so important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u15036	I thank the Minister of Justice for Mr Ivan Šimonović. And the next speaker is Home Secretary Mr Tomislav Karamarko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u15037	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to introduce you in the next few minutes to the most significant measures and activities we intend to take at the Ministry of the Interior in the next period. I would also like to present to you my thoughts as Minister of the Interior at this very sensitive moment for our country. I don't want to increase citizens' concerns, because I am deeply convinced that there is no place for defectism. But I certainly want to point out the accumulated problems at the Ministry of the Interior, especially in the police, which require an urgent solution. I don't want to talk about the situation I'm in with the goal of calling my predecessors, because I believe everyone has worked in good faith. What I want to point out is that today's situation is not the result of current events but of negative processes that last for many years. Some failures in the security system, the way in which human resources were managed and adopted could be understood in the early 1990s during the most severe aggression on the homeland, but not today. Unfortunately, after the police left the war and returned to the usual police affairs and tasks, we missed the opportunity to build a modern police organisation as a public service for citizens in security affairs, and we did not change police philosophy and culture, but we already experienced the police very similar to the previous socialist regime as an extended hand of politics, i.e. government, and not as an independent institution in charge of law enforcement. In fact, every modern police force in its essence is a career and hierarchical organized service, where the promotion in the service is necessarily dependent on professional preparation, work results, years of internships, and professional and social competences and where police managers are relatively difficult to become, but these same managers are even more difficult to replace. Permanent staff changes in police management at the level of police administrations, police departments and the Ministry of Interior in general over the past 15 years clearly show that we have not changed and built a new system but have only changed people, and that is inconsistent with the huge influence of different political structures and interest groups. As a rule, the so-called managers did not possess real authority on which they could successfully manage the system and develop it in accordance with best European practice and standards only possessed formal authority. This necessarily led to system disturbances. There is no vision and long-term police development strategies leading to the current state of the police organisation that cannot secure its basic function, which is a favourable state of security for people and property and public order. The police today are not satisfied with the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but the police organisation is not satisfied with police officers, which demonstrates the existing research into the views of citizens and police officers, and I deeply believe the attitudes of all of us. So we need fundamental changes in the system, not just changes in individual people in the system or cosmetic changes for day-to-day policy needs. I would like to stress immediately that all the changes we want to make are not immediately feasible and that it takes time for them. I'm not saying this to have an alibi, but I believe you understand that this condition didn't occur overnight, so it can't be solved overnight. The Ministry of the Interior is a huge system and it is clear to everyone that large systems are having a hard time changing. Let me now, after this brief introduction, introduce you to the measures we intend to take in our ministry. I am optimistic because aside from public support, support from the president of the Republic of Croatia, the President of the Croatian Parliament and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, I feel the growing support of the vast majority of police and other officials of the MUP every day, making me even more determined to implement the necessary reforms. After these recent tragic events and crimes that have brutally violated the state of security and have thrown citizens' trust in the rule of law, we are aware that, in addition to the reform procedures that require time, we must take some short-term measures that will reflect on improving the state of security and the functioning of the police organisation as soon as possible. Short-term measures. One. Staff consolidation of police leadership. To date, a new police leadership has been appointed, namely the appointment of the head of the Crimea Police Administration, the Chief of Police, the Chief of Police of the National Police Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime, and the head of the resolution departments. A number of Zagrebačka executives were also appointed, and new chiefs of the Dubrovnik-Neretvanska and Sisak-Moslavina police administrations were appointed, and the process of staff consolidation will be completed within 30 days. Second. Encourage the process of depoliticalisation and professionalization of police. In the process of appointment and resolution of the above-mentioned executives, we were guided solely by the criteria of expertise, the results of work and the achievements achieved in the current management of the segments of the system, and we appointed new managers as the basis of the professional and social competences they have. In the shortest time, we will encourage changes to internal police legislation to build a transparent system of reception in service, promotion in service, and appointment and resolution of managers, thus creating assumptions for a higher level of internal order and discipline, motivation for work, feelings of belonging to police organisation and better functioning of a police organisation as a whole. Third. Coordination of the work of all departments responsible for the security and implementation of the law. Permanent communication and co-operation and partnership between the police and the Security Intelligence Agency has already been established, resulting in an improvement in the results of the work and a synergy of action. As you know, the case of Luke Ritz and the murder of Zoran Mrvelj has been resolved, and the assassination attempt has also been prevented by an explosive device in Rijeka that would most likely have similar consequences to the assassination of Mr Ivo Pukanic and Mr Niko Franjic. I would like to point out that crime and the security of citizens, these assets are not only a problem for the police but a problem for society as a whole, and that these problems are only solved by the involvement of all the potentials of the social community. This finding does not escape our part of the work and responsibility, but it will only be possible to effectively combat crime and bring it down to an acceptable measure, with the establishment of permanent coordination and partnership relations between the police, the SOA, the Customs Administration, the Financial Inspectorate, the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, the State Inspectorate and all other bodies and institutions responsible for the implementation of the law. Fourth. Raising the general state of security in the City of Zagreb. The entire operational composition of Pu Zagrebačka is placed in full office, and the Police Directorate has sent assistance from 250 police officers from other police administrations to perform police work in the City of Zagreb as long as it is required by a security ruling. I believe that this measure will ensure the raising of the sense of security among citizens and the more successful implementation of preventive and repressive activities in police jurisdiction. 5. According to the current systematization of jobs in the Ministry of the Interior, over 3,000 jobs have been unfulfilled, and the highest lack of police officers is recorded in Zagreb, Istria and Dubrovnik-Neretvanska. Due to the lack of police officers, I've reported to you that I've made a decision to receive 2,200 students instead of 1400 on the next adult education programme for the occupation of a police officer who begins on November 3rd. The decision will in the short term, but also reflect positively on the functioning of the police organisation in the long term. Long-term measures 1. Amendment of the legislative framework for police work. As you are already aware, we are about to pass a new Code of Criminal Procedure, and the creation of a new Law on Police Powers is in the final stage. Those laws will make it more clear that police powers will be defined, especially in the field of combating all types of crime. Of course, amendments to the Republic of Croatia's Penal Code and amendments to the Law on infringements against public order and peace are necessary in which all those behaviours which seem to be at the expense of generally accepted social values must be described as punishable. In addition, in the field of police work, I consider it more important to amend and supplement the Law on the prevention of riots in sport competitions that will prescribe stricter security measures. Of course, if we want to be successful in the fight against crime, then we need to create conditions in which crime is invaluable and to prescribe mechanisms for confiscation of property acquired by criminal acts. 1. The transformation of police into public service of citizens As early as 2003 in the MUP has begun preparations for implementing a community police strategy in the form of a strategy and implementation of a pilot project. The evaluation of the pilot of the project identified an improvement in the work of the basic police through improved cooperation between police and citizens, an increase in operational information aimed at solving the problem, better resolution of criminal offences and offences, and improved protection of victims of criminal offences and particularly sensitive populations. Although a survey of citizens' and police officials' views found that over 70% of respondents and 95% of surveyed police officers fully supported such a working module, there was still no systematic implementation of the strategy in police practice for a number of subjective and objective reasons. Based on previous experiences in the implementation of the strategy in the Republic of Croatia and the experiences of other Western European countries, we will join a comprehensive reform process aimed at transforming the existing traditional and conservative police model into a model of police action in a community compatible with similar Western European police models. Through this strategy, we will implement the following projects: operational prevention work reform in uniform police, improvement and development of criminal and municipal prevention and public relations reform. To implement the transformation of police into public service, citizens will not only need changes in the police, but also in the social community, so the projection of planned changes should be seen as a long-term process which cannot be determined precisely by time. Based on the assessment of the state of police and the experience of countries that have carried out similar processes, I believe it takes a period of several years to plan and implement these projects. 1. The reform of the Criminal Police for the successful control of crime, except for human change and the change of legal regulations, will need to change the approach and philosophy of the work of the Criminal Police from the dominant reactive to proactive action. The focus of the reform will be on developing a national criminal intelligence model that will ensure that police continuously oversee criminal groups in order to receive and analyse security-related information in a timely manner and be a step ahead of organised criminal groups. A positive step in this direction has already been made through the recently completed project "Crime Intelligence System, Phase 1 and Phase 2" funded by the pre-accession EU funds KARC 2002 and 2003, whose full implementation is under way. Full implementation of the national criminal and intelligence system will accept the best practice of the European Union police and improve the management of the most serious forms of criminal offences and organised crime. I stress that the application of best practice requirements and additional financial investments in criminal techniques and tactics. It is also known that new forms of crime require adequate organisational solutions and adjustments for their successful repression. I am pleased to point out once again that just two days ago, the leaders of the National Police Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime were appointed, which means that the office has begun its work. The Office will monitor and study certain emerging forms of corruption and organised crime, their trends and methods of enforcement will directly implement the most complex criminal treatment of corruption and organised crime at national level in close cooperation with the Office for the control of corruption and organised crime-USKOK, other state attorneys and other competent state bodies. I am convinced that this will result in significantly better results in curbing corruption and organised crime in the Republic of Croatia. 1. Improving international cooperation In order to improve international police cooperation, further efforts will be made to strengthen existing forms and visions of cooperation through strengthening bilateral cooperation with countries in the region and continuing continued continued and successful cooperation through international organisations, particularly Interpol, Europol and SECI, as well as the deployment of police liaison officers abroad. The Republic of Croatia is a signator of 27 bilateral agreements on international police cooperation, 8 agreements at the level of the Ministry of Interior and 2 multilateral agreements that allow it to exchange knowledge and experience, take over best practice and apply the latest achievements in the field of criminal technology and criminal tactics to combat all forms of crime. I point out that in the meantime, we have speeded up preparations for the signing of several more such bilateral agreements. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude that taking all these short and long-term measures requires support and public patience and political support. We also need investment in training and professional training and technical resources and police equipment to achieve our desired security situation. Internal security costs, but any meaningful investment in internal security will be paid very quickly and multiplely. I'm not prone to unreal promises and I'm not saying something that I really don't and I don't believe and what I don't believe, modern conditions of life favour the creation and development of new forms and types of crime. Taking these measures will not be ideal, but I am sure that Croatian police will quickly regain the lost reputation and trust of citizens, increase the success in countering the most serious crimes, but also in solving citizens' problems, and criminality and all forms of threat to life and property of people will come to terms with socially acceptable frameworks. I believe in this process we will have the support of this High House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u15038	I thank the Minister of the Interior, Mr Tomislav Karamark. And according to the deal, we're now going to take a short break by 11:00 p.m. when the club representatives will address on behalf of the clubs for five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u15039	Can't you let us look in front of the clubs on this discussion? I think it'll be correct... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u15040	I think that these days we have had broad and comprehensive debates and on behalf of the clubs, these are measures, the ministers went out to the Parliament, they announced what they announced, and I think we can listen to the comments of the clubs and they have to work on it. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the session. I'm asking clubs that aren't that past the time we've decided to continue. I think we said five minutes in clubs. Let's take that for 10 minutes. I don't think it's necessary for 15 minutes, because the other day we were discussing all this. Therefore, we will also have an opportunity to discuss concrete proposals for individual laws announced by the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior, and there will be opportunities to discuss in greater detail the specific aspects of this vote-related situation and the procedure for the adoption of these laws. Therefore, I propose a compromise solution for the end of the clubs to turn for 10 minutes and be rational and, of course, wait for the law-making procedure to go the regular way. So if we agree, we can begin. On behalf of the National Minority Club, Mr. Representative Shemso Tankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u15042	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Government, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the colleagues. The key word we said the other day on the occasion of the election of Tomislav Karamark and Ivan Shimonovic was finally, finally. And I've had a number of conversations with people I've been hanging out with all the time and nobody, but really no one in any word has said any doubt about the selection of the ministers mentioned. And in some ways, we all said that we believe that the choice of such people is exactly, and of course, the further course of things will say that we did the right thing. And this is all we've heard we can say is on to it. I'd like to remind my colleagues of one problem after all. Yesterday we had a meeting that talked about health corruption. And what fell into my eyes, one conclusion, one finding that healthcare corruption is much less than perception and presentation in the media, but it's also bigger than what's called a court verdict, and that's the fundamental truth that's about everything we're doing right now. I would remind you, by the way, of a book Darrell Huff translated into Croatia. The book says, "How to lie with statistics." Interesting book, I'd recommend it to all of you. And it's interesting for a way of thinking. This author tells us an example of an American who moved from one federal American state to another and after a week in society found you to be a country of corruption, a country of crime, a country, etc. On the question of your colleagues how in ten days you could conclude it, he said I was reading the local newspaper came across that at least 50.60% of all texts related to this phenomenon. And there is one problem that we can discuss, because we can have the best ministers, we can also have our best associates, but this is a project that we all participate in. Both citizens and we here in the Croatian Parliament, but God and the media who must also know that they are part of the project and the goal of us becoming what we want. If I were a little cynical, then I would mention that at one symposium in 1992, I was talking about possible challenges related to organised crime, to transition, to corruption, etc. And I took this work and to turn out, I was a bit of a bad prophet because there was simply a lot of things that took place many years later that were also published in 1992. Success or failure here can't be the subject of discussion because we know what brings success, but also failure means entering into one of the terrible fungi from which there is no return. We are a country that has clearly said "we want to enter the European Union", and this entry means that we want to be part of a common matrix, a matrix in which human rights, the security of citizens, regardless of social status, religious, national and any other diversity, are a normal category that is never questioned. And to conclude, gentlemen of the Ministers, the representatives of our club unanimously supported you on the occasion of your election on this current duty. The messages from our voters are more than positive. You have our support and regardless of the difficulties that will surely be, we believe in this joint project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u15043	Thank you very much, Mr. Shemsa Tankovic. It's HSS's turn. Ms. Representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u15044	Your Honor, Mr. President. Representatives and deputies and Madam Vice-President of the Government, gentlemen of the Ministers. I would like to point out on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS that, as we have supported the appointment of both Mr. Šimonović and Mr. Karamark as ministers in the Croatian Government, believing in their ability and determination, we will support these reports which they have submitted as well as the proposed short and long-term measures. Of course, at the HSS Club, we don't have utopian claims about achieving perfect society. We are only looking for permanent and tireless busyness in the fight to expose the repression, resolve the root causes of corruption and organised crime, which our ministers also spoke of very briefly. If organized crime and corruption are the result of individual behavior, the individual rights mechanism alarm must react. If, on the other hand, a certain social structure has to react to a social alarm. You need to cut the thread at the end of that network and the laws your role, your value, even in spite of your shortcomings. That is why we feel it is necessary to enforce the laws, but if they are not right, they should be changed. However, we at the HSS Club believe that the law is not the only factor that will, of course, be human resources that will deal with corruption and organised crime. We believe that the less moral, the more laws, and the weaker and more ineffective the law, and the morals aren't just an individual thing, it has value and meaning for the whole society. There is no excuse for the stasis of impotence, the depression in personal, social, political, economic life, no justification for laziness in working with an apology can be done anyway. A real analysis is needed which we consider to be done by ministers, but a true and bold attitude against corruption and organised crime that we could hear from them today after this speaker. But again, we wonder how it all looks so bad, or it looks like a clean disaster to us, and Croatia on the other hand is still moving on. And then perhaps the answer is that there are two Croatians. One surface spread in it is privileged garbage sprayers instead of adding it up and cleaning it up. They're auto-destructive lightbulbs and it's corruption and organized crime. The right to vote always and everywhere has privileged screamers, while others cannot appear in public. The second is the real reality of Croatia. That deep, self-absorbed, healthy, radiant, sort of like a silent majority. In fact, they don't have privileged performances. They cannot be used either by means or by means that are incompatible with the fundamental control of the world, by respecting every individual human being, by respecting the community, by common good in consciousness, or responsibility. Of these Croatia lives and progresses with them. And precisely these, gentlemen ministers, we expect that through the activities you are carrying out, through the system that you are changing and establishing and through the laws that you are going to propose, and we will bring them, that is exactly the kind of Croatia protection. I can tell you that for all the good you're going to do, the HSS Representatives Club will give you support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u15045	Thank you very much to Mrs. Mariana Petyr. It's Mr. Silvano Hrelja on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS, HSU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u15046	Mr. President, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Our members of the Croatian Party of Retired, our electoral body, and the wider, citizens of Croatia, as I suppose also sympathisers and HSLS voters are justly concerned and revolved by growing crime and violence in Croatia, an intolerable level of corruption, as well as an intolerably low level of humanity and a sense of justice and social justice. Our pensioners built at their productive age, a society of high social standards, a society of honesty and a society of peace, and they are now terribly lacking. Also because they lack the challenge of personal and collective frustration. These last days, we have witnessed a significant deviation from the attitudes I am about to make. No one has the right to reach for someone else's life. In front of the institutions of the system, every life must be equally valuable, some more valuable. Journalists are asked to provide objective information in the service of citizens, not the creation of a power centre, although with them power is sweetness, of course the centers of power that intertwine with other structures of society, and especially the underworld. Furthermore, it has fallen apart that everyone should do their job and answer for it. It has deviated from the rule that there must be a buffer zone between politics and the underworld and the untouchability provided by police, intelligence, judiciary and prison systems. It has fallen short of the view that politicians and journalists have no right to judge and enter into other people's lives. In front of the HSLS and HSU club, we welcome the announcements of police politicisation, but we ask that this be ensured both in the judiciary and in health care, possibly in financial institutions. We welcome the announcements of the introduction of specialized Jumping Courts, and in order not to be a high ball or a test balloon, we want to bring excellent judges to these USKOK courts or USKOK departments, because the problem is the trial with the full police protection of them and their families. Let's not play, let's not expose people with the desire to solve them, and let's leave them, solve the problems of crime, the organized underworld, and leave them without protection and their families. We consider it necessary to bring and go a little harder. Not only do we take away illegally acquired assets from mobsters, but we consider it necessary in Croatian society to go a little harder and pass the Law on the Origin of Assets and to adopt the Law on the Abuse of illegally acquired assets that are comprehensive, from robbery in privatisation to drug trafficking, mafia and organised crime. We are for solutions that are not comprehensive, which are only brought about and which target only one structure. There's no big difference between illegally acquired assets in privatisation and money laundering in a criminal mile. It's all against the law, and all these countries must be operated in an orderly manner. The media has been called on to build Croatian society with constructive criticism in exchange for a knife attitude towards the institutions of the system. We are subject to public work and our institutions are subject to every criticism, but we are all invited to build this society to make it work for us. I'd like to comment on one of the people's esteemed opinions here. You know the people say, "Once a cop, always a cop.". Then why wouldn't that be? Why we had three little overly early retirement cops. One time is possible because of national belongings, another time is possible because of intricacies, the third time is possible because we have reduced the capacity of the police but we have left the administration and we have retired professional operatives. What's the score? It was publicly admitted here that we have a lack of expertise. We've actually lost that institution's memory. We have a lack of upgrade of experience, so one generation to another, which completely causes system ineffectiveness. So I'm here to ask openly why active police officers would be involved in some benign events, why special forces must be at volleyball and some political gathering and celebration. Why don't you do a backup set of police who have a much richer country than we do? Much richer countries than us do not give up their experts in which they invest and do not retire between the ages of 40 and 50. Why drug experts or other forms of crime who have retired since 45 years of age, so they are retired and are educated, they have invested a lot of money in them and some new ones, with forgiveness, kids, every honor, train and learn everything from the beginning. A policeman is an honorable calling and a profession, it's a service of general good and skills must be passed down from generation to generation. The state gave a lot of schooling to just give them up so easily and easily. This year in this Croatian Assembly, assumptions were created by amending the Law on Mandatory Contributions that they can indeed be engaged, so their property is not touched and can at any time be invited to do certain jobs in the context of their expertise. This also prevents what is now publicized that one part of both the police and the military has been involved in organised crime. Let's get them for ourselves, keep them engaged for the greater good, let's not let them have no business, have a threatened existence because a 50-year-old man who receives 4 thousand kuna pensions is certainly not enough for him because his family is still growing. Furthermore, of course we welcome the disarmament that has begun, we want it to be stronger and more. We believe that organized crime can only be taken with an organised state and nothing short-term or concluded, if the fight against organised crime is a lasting concern of society, the lasting concern of all of us and being continued has our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u15047	Thank you very much, Mr. Silvan Hrelja. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u15048	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, honourable Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister. There's that famous Churchill dictatorship as the prologue book "The Second World War" that describes behavior in war, conventional war, and says in four points of war determination, in defeat of defiance and resistance, in victory of generosity, in peace of goodwill. But this example shows that we are not dealing with a conventional war because these rules, this dictatorship of this war that the state is fighting, are not applicable. You have a war, which requires determination. The second stage must not be reached, the phase of resistance and defiance because the state that is in the resistance phase and despite this only to organised crime and the mafia has lost the battle. With the mob and organized crime there is no peace, no goodwill, no generosity of that third phase of Churchill. The diagnosis given by the ministers is terrible and this is not the time for any liquefying or self-satisfaction. She's who she is. The proposals we have heard are well-known, some are new, some are intruding into instruments, and they are used in particular in the area of justice, which has been at their disposal all the time and have not been used, some are legislative. This is mainly not about any ideas or proposals coming from the SDP club, and some of them are contained in the exposés of ministers, especially the Minister of Justice, are not big political ideas and news, but solutions that exist and should be applied. We're where we are, there's no other option. You should start working and your results will depend first and foremost on the political support that will be given to you by the Government and the Prime Minister in financial support and moral support in the right to use your legal powers as well as those that exist, which are already large and largely sufficient and which should be passed, which you have now initiated and which you have said something basic and which we will have opportunities to discuss about the weeks ahead, which in this House, which through the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and other relevant committees where you will have our constructive support for solutions, but responsibility for the results we expect from you and the Croatian Government. If you get funds and space to work, I'm sure they won't be left behind. The state of police has also been well and dramatically diagnosed by the interior minister, Mr Karamarko. It's what it is. We welcome as the necessity and recent staff changes of a day ago, two where some of the duties have been restored to the people who are part of the system, who have acted at the beginning of this decade, who are not politicians, who are not members of the SDP or HDZ, who we believe know their business. Let them work. So, for the suggestions that we will talk about on our part, you can always talk to us, and we will, through the organs, forums, the bodies of this House, propose things that we hold to be good and useful. Just as a topic for discussion, this House brought in 2002, it seems to me in March of the month, the National Security Strategy, first and last. Uncorrected, unchanged, incomplete. Time has changed since then. Croatia was a member of the Partnership for Peace in 2002 and has not yet launched an action plan for NATO membership. It didn't happen until the fifth month of that year. I worked on that document myself. He led a group that made him and in such a version handed him over to this Parliament. It's time to change it, it's not... and the tide of events, circumstances, world and our surrounding orders that this government prepares and subsidizes this House because the challenges of national security were not just war and bombs, they were not in 2002 either. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's time to go there, and it's time to know who the promoter is, it's not originally neither the Ministry of Justice nor the Ministry of the Interior, it's the defenses and foreign affairs. Another thing to end as thinking, with support, the principle of support for all these measures that the Minister of Justice spoke of, legislative changes, additions, USKOK courts, are all things that should finally be brought to life. We know why USKOK courts, or departments in 2003 when they were proposed, did not pass. Because of the internal resistance, certain professional structures, to be checked securely, that resistance you'll have to say now I won't have to break, you'll have to face the need to change it. Because this security check is something that is already very present in the state apparatus, and it started with secret services and diplomacy when we started talking and negotiating with NATO in 2002. So no one has reason to be excluded from it, if the war is such a difficult, responsible and sensitive social business. And finally, I didn't hear any mention of the banking secret. So, the banking secret is something that's a product of one time, of a world-class mirror, of Switzerland... a time when there were no plastic cards, when money went from hand to hand. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That time lasted until recently. There is a question at all of the meaning, importance and usefulness of protecting banking secrets in the intensity and scope that our civilization knows. What is it today? And we know that organized crime is the best way to make money. Well, since that's... The untouchableness, the sanctity of banking secrets, in our legislation, relatively but relatively, is our thinking that maybe a step further. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's no reason Uskok doesn't have the right to gain insight into all the data of this species. The topic of thought, we will have time to discuss this in the preparation of these laws in the Parliament and committees. In situations like this, to conclude, when the public rightfully seeks responsibility and the action of certain stereotypes is changed, certain rights of the majority should remain intact, and the rights of those who obviously do not have the right to live in the community, according to Community rules, must come to question a little. This happened six, seven years ago to our happiness in much more dramatic circumstances in the United Kingdom and the United States because of terrorist attacks. And that's where the police got more authority. And there the courts were given more authority and there the investigative authorities were given greater authority. Itd. And so on and so forth. Fortunately, today is not the case with us, but certain events tell us to increase the authority of some organs and that's where you'll have our support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u15049	Thank you very much, Mr. Zoran Milanovic. It's the SDSS club, Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u15050	Mr. President, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Allow me to address the two ministers we recently appointed to these important, to us, for the entire nation, demanding jobs. So, Mr. Justice and Mr. Home Secretary, let me say that I have experienced your presentations as one of the representatives of this House. First, it seems to me that in this House in the name of the government that I belong to, in the name of the Parliament that has great expectations of you and your resors speaking in a language that is not a language,... The phrases of political, bureaucratic and general language, you have spoken in a language that is clear, a language that promises and indicates the course of action of your ministries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So you set an example for us of what we need. That's what you gave us and how to speak the language we speak in this House. So, in your presentations, you illustrated how to get out of politics... The language speaks in a clear policy and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The language, of course, in Croatian. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But above all, clear and active. Because there's too much time behind us to have room for... within our language. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And from the representatives of the government, often from us who go out for this pay phone. The other thing I read or received as a message from your presentations is your desire to use your mandates to form a state apparatus so in the resolutions you run, for which you answer, to be active, uncompromising and loyal body of the state. Unsuspecting, inaccessible to those whom access should not be professional in what is his or her task. As is expected from the state to protect the interest, law, property, every single person living in it, whether its citizen or not, so the state is expected to protect both state and social well-being. In this respect, and once and in the second exhibition, we have observed your willingness to impose this state body, this state apparatus on the preservation of state goods because it has been considered too accessible to anyone by merit, by power, by incomparability and insolence, and now from us who are sitting here and from you who have taken over these functions, citizens expect it to be returned to the state where it belongs. Whether it's money, whether it's police or investigative activities, whether it's property of any kind. That's what people expect. That's what we expect at the end of the line. In that sense, I agree with you, Mr. Šimonovic, that witness protection is an extremely important instrument in establishing a legal order and achievability for the judiciary of those who have so far not been that no matter what crime we are talking about. There were too many of those who were able to show witnesses, who were willing to testify about the various aspects of the crime sow fear and shine today, calling for a wide variety of merits or calling for different kinds of instruments, connections, and communication. They can equally fully agree that internal control mechanisms, whether they are police or judicial, are one of the important non-resistance elements that will enhance both the professionality and the effectiveness and credibility of those who are actors. And in that sense, I'm taking these two segments in, I could single out some others, but I'm singled out as important for the segments of the state apparatus that you've accepted to form in the interest of the general good, in the interest of trust in the state, because you don't have to interfere with the idea that people have started to lose confidence in the state. And as you Mr. Justice and Police Ministers have said, it's not just a matter of countering organised crime and corruption. It is about restoring confidence in the state apparatus and restoring trust in state institutions. And that's why if you'll allow me my colleagues and colleagues to repeat something I already said from this pay phone a few days ago. We will get the laws from the motionor, the government's representative in this case of two ministers and their ministries. We will adopt these laws as measures to strengthen the state body, which will strengthen the state's apparatus and the judiciary and the state's coercion. But what the laws themselves will certainly not do without the examples we need to show ourselves, which is legislative patriotism we are not just here to pass laws. As surely those who enter the church are not only there to confess themselves for sins or to surrender to the lemuzine so that they can buy adequate status in the church. If we are not committed to what we believe, if we do not live up to what we are saying here from this pay phone, if we do not advocate the values of these laws and apply them consistently in our own example to party and representative, individually. Then there is no doubt that the trust that you now have from the government's top officials and the state will not be enough. That's why I'd like to say that trust in this initiative is being tested by each and every one of us. In each of the political parties that has their own representatives here and those who eventually do not have them as they will, of course, be tested with the attitude of citizens towards it. That call to take from understanding the state at a symbolic level, on... The flags, at the level of the anthem, at the level of holding hands on the heart, move to understanding the state as an established apparatus that works according to the rules and laws that we bring here is actually our imperative. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's the fight we're going into, and in that sense you have our support and you have us representatives of the SDSS and those who choose us and support us as their comrades in this fight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u15051	Thank you very much, Mr. Milorad Pupovac. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u15052	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, the Honorable gentlemen of the House of Representatives. Scalpel, sabers, too, but those who think Croatia can pass without a cut are naive. Minister Shimonovic said shortly before the proceedings must be priority. Here's just one piece of information. I read it today. We have an indictment against as many as a thousand 30 persons for acts of organised crime on the basis of which no court ruling has yet been made, although it has been since 2001 or since the founding of the USKOK. It's a done quote. It's clear to me, let me paraphrase Churchill now: "It'll be worse than better" or as I would say, these murders are not the end. We have all become some way of ideal targets and many mothers will still cry before their children can go out freely and peacefully on the streets. We're proposing some measures here now. I say gentlemen not enough. The only thing that's effective is what you don't talk about. Well, we've had BOOKs so far, we've had regulation and so on, but that's how much it's brought us. It is clear that I am also against the practice so far that someone stands for one roast in a prison of investigation or detention for more than 15 months. Of all these measures, the strongest seem to be those taken today in position. I dare say almost every mobster in this country almost has his own prosecutor, judge, journalist, cop, maybe someone from politics and so on. I will explain this in one of the last examples of a Croatian prison. That there were drugs in the prisons, we knew that even more than we knew on the street. That a drug under the fingernail can be brought to prison, let's say we do, but how is it possible if the prison system isn't corrupt in prison to organize orgies? About your guards washing your car and having to go home every day, getting married and something like that on another occasion. What's he saying? That the only meaningful measures that have been taken in these few weeks are the ones that are being conducted in the police. I'm not going to say generational, human-restitution at the head of these institutions. It is clear that the murder of Miss Hodak or Pukanic is evil. You can't make that clear. Now let's let that folk saying not to mention her right now, but look at these principles of police depolitisation. Of course that's important, but what's equally important is human resources, so let's say in three years, the current chief of police is no longer a political official. He can stay in the system with his entire team. If we do, then we have achieved exactly the goal of these measures that we are discussing today. But that's not enough either. I'm going to say once again, they're connected in some way, they're connected to the rope with the underworld from the judiciary, and then they're connected. What do you need to do? Get individuals out of the system who are somehow willing to sacrifice themselves for all of us. Is that the FBI, are those jumping courts about it at some other time? And clearly what Mr. Pupovac was talking about restoring institutions. That's how much we have to achieve together about crime because they've hit the foundations of the institution, but also that community can't turn into some union type of Union of Communists of Yugoslavia, because we know what they were more unique that state was more divided. In Croatia, this lesson could be translated as much as the parties are more uniquely, it is Croatia's more vulnerable but internally. Clearly, when it comes to crime, there cannot be positions and opposition, and there must be consensus. What do we say on the other hand? For example, we've heard evidence of the origin of the property is being transferred to whoever is suspicious. That's great, but aren't those who won the most vital parts of the Croatian economy today are 50, 100, 200 or more million euros. They have media empires, tobacco businesses, shipping companies, etc. They should be suspicious, but unfortunately nothing will happen to them. You have a lot, and the state has such an impression from day to day gives them even more, saves the monopolies and so forth. That's true. They're a problem like this mob. They are not jeopardizing institutions with assassinations but are taking over money through the media or influence in the executive government that they have in some way subdued, and they are likely to go to elections themselves for the end. Now the question is, who's going to touch that? Clearly they are pillars of society, they are not subject to these laws. They're protected like bears, and that's why citizens are angry. Not frightened, but angry, and you realize that you can't touch someone who has 50, 100 or 150 million euros right now. In 2008, therefore, all the wisdom of these measures must be an answer to one banal question. Gentlemen, how did you get the first million euros? Unfortunately, in Croatia, the government has the principle of asking me about every cent above that, but don't even ask me about the first million euros. After that, everything goes on its own. But the answer to that question would answer how it all went in this country, and nobody in Croatia wants to hear it, because it seems like we care about going into the fight against crime since 2008 and not since 1990 or some year ago. And that's our problem. It is a problem of Croatian credibility, and because of this, the fight against the mafia will not be much, unless we simply extort property, journalists, after us judges, state lawyers and so forth. That's the point. We journalists, judges, I don't know secret agents, cops kind of in that order. With interest, I read an interview with Zoran Zivkovic, the former Serbian prime minister who inherited the late Djindjic, who led the saber. And let me read a few sentences. "This is obvious," he says, "a message of organised crime to your country," he thinks of Croatia. "We are the masters and we can kill anyone and there is nothing you can do to us. If your government doesn't respond to this escalation, the escalation is imminent and in the future when the mafia is worth killings will be repeated. Your government must now act spotlessly and declare a state of emergency in law enforcement. We cut our mafia in 40 days. We solved 35 murders, thousands of crimes, seized tons of heroin. And the Croatian government can do all this if it wants to solve it in a very short time," Zivkovic said. Among other things, only two more sentences. He says, “We cleaned Serbia after Sablje, and it will take the mafia a long time to recover from that blow while some kind of saber is still waiting for it,” a finished quote, etc. That's the point. We will surely achieve something with these measures that are in action with a scalpel or saber. If anyone on the other side touches a violent mob, she'll protect herself. It will protect what it has created for decades, and that is why I fear that the victims may still be, because they are mobsters and they are rightly asking themselves we did not even deserve from the tycoon to create Croatia. You leave them alone, and you haunt us. On the other hand, they're killing us with Hodak, Pukanić and so on. They're ordering you leave us alone to do what we've done, so we'll leave you alone. They told us simply that we can get to anyone. The next victims can be you, your children, and so forth. Clearly, it is a serious threat and should be feared. But chaos should also be answered. We must not give institutions, and therefore the answer must be strong to those who are avoiding the system of control. What were they trying to accomplish with these murders? I'm going to say one more time, not to retaliate the result as someone says one, but to have the opposition and the public withdraw demands for new shifts in police, justice and so forth. This has not happened, and it is therefore necessary to welcome clear political unity. But no one should experience this unity with the coalition either. So for me, Croatia needs to draw either saber or scalpel, anyway. It is necessary to clean up as the institutions have said, Pupovac, and to restore these institutions normally. That's actually the point. I clearly don't envy the new ministers for the end. Let's say I'm a little optimistic, not excessive, because the mags in this country will continue to work, buy and build as they have done so far. What is certainly good is what I absolutely welcome to say about preventing riots in our stadiums, to finally stop that "kill, kill a Serb", "let's go Ustasha", "for home ready", because today they have become gas that pays for the underworld in some way. There's so much to say. It is clear that IDS will also join these legislative changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u15053	Thank you, Mr. Damier Caine. On behalf of the HNS club, Ms. Representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u15054	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. What we've heard in terms of concrete moves and planned moves from two new ministers is good. In some ways this is an example, a relatively rare one, which seems to me to be potentially quality cooperation between Parliament and the Government. I cannot remember that so far in Parliament, we have heard from the members of the government in charge of individual resolutions such clearly defined moves of measurable policy and measurable change whose main quality is that absolutely every one of us, and the Croatian public before whom this is happening and before which this is presented will be able to verify in future whether what the ministers are talking about today in Parliament are really happening or not. And that particularity of movement and measurement is new, and I would say the necessary quality to make any policy, and at this point, at such a sensitive and vulnerable area, there is a chance of being serious and of course effective. As far as the HNS Club is concerned, we believe that it is excellent and necessary to link organised crime and corruption because organised crime, of course universally condemns and considers something to be removed, abolished in every society, but, according to corruption, more tolerance and diversity of attitudes where corruption is thought to be, well, human nature, which is possible. It's not like that. Corruption is, I would say, the way organised crime comes to money and comes to influence, corruption is a visible and day-to-day recognizable form of life of organised crime. We also believe that what has been presented here is well systemised as Justice Minister Dr. Shimonovic concerns two categories, first direct moves and policies and other necessary changes in the legislation. And as for the interior minister, Mr Karamarka, short-term moves most of which have already been made and long-term moves or long-term reforms and changes that are necessary in the police system and relevant systems to which it is linked. Both ministers warn that the situation is extremely serious. Of course, we know and knows every citizen of this country, but it's also a relatively new practice for government ministers to come and say, listen, people, it's a really bad situation and it's time for us all to get serious about it. We consider it positive, I will only give examples of several measures, we consider it a positive establishment of specialised courts because if our problem is the functioning of organised crime, which is the most dangerous in its connection with both justice and politics and police, there is a major risk of organised crime and the main potential impact of organised crime. Then it is clear that in order to deal with it it is necessary specialised courts where today it is said that judges will be specifically elected. In other words, we need special judges with security checks, which means so far there's also been no security checks on the judges. Also a serious problem so far, and in some ways perhaps the cause of this, or a partial cause of the situation that we have found ourselves in. Another measure that we consider to be of great quality and necessary is the inversion of proving how to acquire property. So, as far as people convicted of organised crime are concerned, they will now be deprived of their total assets, and they will be burdened with evidence that they have acquired any of that property legally or legally. We also find it useful to establish the structure of USKOK, USKOK courts and USKOK police, so you should also specialize in police departments because that is obviously part of the problem. From what Minister Karamarko said, while finding the bad situation and the problems that exist are obvious key points. Staff changes have already been made practically the total police department has changed. That tells us something about how the police have worked so far. The necessity of white co-operation and networking of the security system by police, customs, border police. It means it never existed before. We're still doing well considering how it's been organized so far. The lack of personnel, in the event of an intervention in Zagreb, is brought in 250 police officers, it is obvious that it is too small. There are three thousand police officers who would need the system to function at this time. The police in the community, the other day we competed with each other or one of our colleagues who invented it and who introduced it. We don't have the police in the community, it doesn't work, and now it needs to be re-activated, we find that of course extremely important. To end several problems and issues of new ministers that we see in the programme that are here, or programmes that have been presented here. First, as I recall last week, we agreed that they would say something about concrete moves that were taken from last week to today. In one part of this is certainly done, we learn in the media that there have been arrests and arrests, but we have not heard about it here today, we pray that in terms of these moves we are quantified not by name, because it is not about university professors but about people who are under suspicion of working with organised crime, so not by name but by numerical something says. We believe there is also a particular problem in what Minister Shimonovic was saying about the evaluation of judges' work. Courts are a key part of the problem we face. The USKOK courts show this, the fact that every time we choose a judge if it is a process that we want to actually carry out legions of artis, it must establish objective and measurable criteria for the evaluation of judges' work. We think it's important to think again, so if it is necessary in this Chamber on the sustainability of the judicial calling and whether we are matured for that institution that we have introduced. With the answers to these questions, the HNS club supports with due respect not ministers as such, although we believe that quality and really novelty in the functioning of the government is already supporting the policy moves and changes that these ministers have brought before us here in the Parliament. We support them because we agree with these moves, we support them because they are clearly presented and we will be able to control both ourselves and the Croatian public whether they are truly implemented and in this sense we are holding not these ministers, because it will not be enough, but the whole government for a word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u15055	Thank you, Mrs. Vesni Pusic. It's on behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u15056	Dear Mr. President, Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The exposure of resolute ministers we have heard we support, our club absolutely supports for the following reasons. First of all, in their diagnosis, they were very exact and very specific. They have diagnosed the situation as serious, but they have not succumbed to seriousness and declared it dramatic or even extraordinary which is good to begin with. In their proposed measures, they were very correct and what we welcome is that these measures do not go beyond those measures that are implemented in similar situations in other countries, measures preserve the right of citizens to all that our current assets of existence have achieved less than 20 years of this country. Also, anything that intends to change will change by amending the law, so before this House, on this highest step of Croatian democracy. This guarantees us that no saber will happen but, as Minister Shimonovic said, a scalpel will happen. The sword in its powerful swing can cut off an innocent branch, the scalpel is much more precise. The wrong move of the scalpel can be stopped in time, collateral damage can be avoided. The effect is much greater and much more significant and much more quality than a saber move. What we have heard here is the reorganisation of the police and, of course, in its approaches but also in its structure. What we want, and from this it turns out that we will achieve, is to follow the money trail as mentioned by SDP President Mr Milanovic. I'd add to that and follow the lead of every and every least criminal mile member, because being after the heel and smallest member of a criminal organization means being one step ahead of him. Being after him means having information, which means having information knows Minister Karamarko. This means the possibility of preventing the tragedy that we have seen recently. Preventing preventions as recently as we have seen they have done in the case in Rijeka, which is also mentioned here. As far as the judiciary is concerned, we support the measures made by Minister Shimonovic here. The judiciary must continue to remain and be more independent of what has been pointed out, but I would also like to mention that it concerns 1030 cases of crime handled before the judiciary and is not resolved. The speed of solving cases in the judiciary is equal to the quality, because without solving the first degree there is no appeal procedure, there is no ending the whole story. If justice is not swift then it is not effective and it does not give the message it must ultimately give, and it is from a message that prevents them from repeating similar crimes. We look forward to and announce the confiscation of illegally acquired property. He is looking forward to it, too, because he will have additional revenues to finance all of what the ministers have told us, and that is certainly the best and shortest way towards justice. But the responsibility is not only with the government, but with the resolution ministers, the responsibility is on the whole of society. I will also mention the responsibility of our politicians in our statements. When we spread defetism, when we go for a low-growling awakening at the moment, it listens more strongly in these difficult moments than usual, we need to be more careful in what we're saying. I also don't think it's a good idea to get involved in our statements and the content of the investigations themselves and it can have a negative impact. Except for us politicians can't say no to the media. Not every news story can be news when it comes to investigation and general national security. With great dissatisfaction today, I read the name and name of a state official in a list today that was supposed to be a protected person, but he refused. Today he's appointed and everyone knows he's not protected. Is that a good message? I think we all need to adapt our statements and our way of working on the new situation and thus contribute to what our ministers here have exhibited. I would also like to mention here that there should be no collateral casualties, that the collateral sacrifice should not be even the Republic of Croatia in its effort to bring it closer to European integration. We have had opportunities to hear from our home mouths, now Europe is over because of these murders which are making us all appalled, the way of Croatia has been stopped. We've heard from two Europarliamentaries, same news. Croatia must not be a collateral sacrifice, because we are not doing this because of Europe. We are primarily doing this for the safety of our citizens, and primarily because of us, we will not and must not allow what we have recently witnessed to continue. They tell us, Croatia belongs, I read today, Zagreb belongs to the 10 most insecure cities in Europe by killings or accidents. If that is true, it should also add objective information from the same research that is still four times safer than Brussels and eight times safer than Luxembourg. We're not proud to be in those 10 firsts, nor do we think it's a good thing we're better than Brussels and Luxembourg. It should be better and better, but no negative information needs to make collateral sacrifices on a public or political stage. In conclusion, we think what we've heard from our ministers is good, I'd say step one. It's a first step, but it's still a long, long way to go. What's our goal? Of course, the goal is to shed light on these two heavy murders. But that's not the ultimate goal. The ultimate goal is to make such a structure and police and all accompanying services and justice and general political, but also public atmospheres to prevent such events in the future. We'll make it when we can stop it, not cure it. In that sense, the HDZ Club supports the views, proposals, plans of our government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u15057	I thank Mr. Andri Hebrang. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u15058	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear vice-presidents of the Croatian government, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I'd start like this. Strategy, here's the deal. Removed from Croatian corruption, crime, organised crime, the mafia, ensure the preconditions for terrorism not to occur. That, I am deeply convinced, is the fundamental goal not only of positions and not only of the Croatian Parliament, not only of positions but of opposition. So, the goal is also here I am convinced that we have a unique view and opinion that all measures need to be taken in order for organized crime to be eradicated by the mafia from the Republic of Croatia in all segments of both social and political and economic and every other life. So this Government of the Republic of Croatia, at this point in the part of taking all necessary measures to eradicate crime, corruption, organised crime and the mafia, has full support. I also think that here in the Croatian Parliament all what has been announced by both ministers and the other ministers will come across full support, I am safe and quality proposals regarding the amendments and additions to the laws that will be proposed, all to that end. There's been a diagnosis here for this pay phone. I've been diagnosed with growth, and I'm very sorry that in fact at least one particular part of it I haven't heard the denial of at least one such condition, for example in the police. I don't think the situation in the police, in our police force is so catastrophic and I don't think all these 18 years the Croatian police have worked in such a way that they've been politicised to the end. I'm talking again now, in 18 years. The power was exchanged, both left and right, irrelevant. But I think there are enough quality and professional people in the police department and I think that the police, of course, with everything the current minister suggests, is to fill both the human and professional police, that this is a need, beyond any doubt. But it doesn't seem like there's anything wrong with the police. There was a lot going on in the police department. When someone says that 50% of police police personnel are not professional, that they didn't satisfy their functions, so wait, forgive me, where I live, where we live? 50% of police chiefs didn't do their job in the last 18 years the way they were supposed to, that it wasn't professionally trained? I don't think that's a very good diagnosis, and if that's an exact diagnosis, then it's going to be a little 3,500 or 2,500 in the police department. Then we'll really need a lot of time to educate and actually have the profession that we want and at what level we want. Sabre or scalpel? Perfectly whatever. I assure you that even saber can be quite precise, of course, if the hands of those who are able to shake hands with saber. And also a scalpel can be very deadly in the hands of those who can't use it, with terrible consequences to end. I think all that one and the other minister has said, and what's next, of course, I think I'm convinced he's enjoying support and he's going to get support from both the position and the opposition. I just think these deadlines are a little too long. I think the deadlines are too long and I think we can finally shorten those deadlines especially when it comes to the highest representative body, that amendments and additions to these laws can be passed in much shorter terms. And I would like to remind you that the constitutional deadline for the termination of the work of the Croatian Parliament is 15. 12, but that practically 12 December finishes the work of the Croatian Parliament in this year. So, of course, if an extraordinary session is not scheduled, we expect the HDSSB by December 12th when it is Friday, that the Croatian Parliament should vote all the necessary and related to the legal provisions, to amend and supplement the relevant laws, to bring it to December 12th. I'd say by going back to the police, the Home Office, it's not just the police in this chain of fighting organised crime and the mob. There's certainly an attorney's office, the state's attorney's office, the BOOK, the court, there were words, and that's what I was listening to at VONS, that and I think it's too big, not to say responsibility, but too much emphasis has been placed on the court's responsibility. And today, the court is said to be the key. I don't think so. I think they're both the key and the attorney's office, and the BOLO, and the police, and the court, of course, but I think it's the policy that's the key to putting this through. Honorable Ministers, esteeming your human and professional qualities. If you do not have the support of politics, none of what you have imagined in a positive sense, of course, will be possible. And that's why I'm going back to those claims, the findings, that in the ears of 18 years there hasn't been much good. Politics has appointed both leaders and police, and in the USKOK, and the chief state attorney is appointed by the Parliament, and judges are also appointed by politics. Therefore, politics is expected from those of us sitting here in the Croatian Parliament to support the fight against organised crime and the mafia. If there's no will, if politics doesn't give the green light, and I believe she gave it, I believe she gave it, then these measures will be nothing. And we can set up I don't know how high-quality and professional people. Why am I saying this, and I'm gonna finish it. Because I think that individuals are both in the police department, and in law enforcement, are we speaking on this subject, and in court that individuals are in contact with organised crime and the mafia, that there are individuals at the top of the state government, regardless of whether she's being tried, whether she's executive or she's legislative, who are in connection with organised crime and the mafia. I think that from this position I am responsible for saying it, because without such support, without lobbying, without amending and supplementing any law that we often do not know for ourselves what they are for, and later it turns out that they serve resell, purchase, various shares and manipulations, and then also in the police, there is no organised crime or mob. And I'm bothered by the buffer zone, I don't think the buffer zone should be at all. I hope that these measures with the support of politics will produce very fast results and that when we talk about organised crime and the mafia in Croatia at all, there will be no organised crime and the mafia will be eradicated, of course and only on condition that politics is consistent. No policy results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u15059	Thank you, Mr. Vladimir Sišljagic. And finally an independent representative, Mr. Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u15060	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. In today's report by two ministers and our debate, I see two important functions. The first is to give the Croatian public and citizens a message and evidence that there is indeed political will in Croatia this time in the fight against organised crime. But even after listening to the reports of both ministers, the second message goes towards organized crime that I roughly summed up in the message followed by surgery without anesthesia. I don't know why, but I'm always a supporter of euthanasia, but good. That's my personal attitude. I'm going to quote today's texts, "We've been pushing problems under the carpet too long, now we can't find a big enough carpet, we don't have time. Croatia needs not saber, but neither aspirin, but scalpel. The police have been treated as an extended hand of politics." This scalpel I saw and heard, as well as this determination to no longer be treated as an extended part of the policy, I recognized in the conduct or final fulfillment of the National Police Office for the Prevention of Organized Crime and Corruption, so USKOK police. DESCRIPTION as part of the State's Attorney's Office and USKOK courts. Therefore, this scalpel mechanism was presented by ministers in this organisational system to those three most reliant points. And that's good. This has already been announced, part of it was also possible in the current legislation, but good. What I'm interested in, last time I announced to you, gentlemen Ministers, tell us, if not today, and by the end of the year you'll have to make it clear to you, to buy that scalpel, to form that mechanism, how much money do you need? How many new surgeons do you need? Because it's not enough scalpel, you said precise, complete and consistent, that scalpel must be in the hands of excellent surgeons. And apparently following the third question, where do we get it in a short time? I insist on money simply because the debate on the state budget is very close. Through the proposal for a state budget, it will be visible whether this political determination and will be translated into insurance according to the most important prerequisite, which is that this Parliament and the Government are following you with the money that the operational system you want to set up and you can implement. I underline this because when the draft budget comes here in Parliament, let us not forget this debate today, the determination and support we give you because I am aware that without money far more money in both the judiciary and the police than the one that has so far been granted no political will and no experts will be able to do anything about it. It has been said that it is necessary and that, in the National Council Report on the fight against corruption, police cooperation with the intelligence service, customs, state inspectorate, financial inspectorate or tax administration has been undermined. It has also been said that police cooperation with intelligence services has only just begun and that is good, but the claim also shows that there have been obstructors so far. There'll be more. There will be others who will try to obstruct the extremely important co-operation of police, customs, state and financial inspectorates. And you see here I believe that instead of scalpels, the government needs to use the sword. We don't need to convince anyone here anymore, or wait, or stall. Here with every such obstructor, you must use the Minister's sword. And as it is extremely important that the police are no longer treated as an extended hand of politics so terribly important that neither customs and no management, the State Inspectorate and the Chief State Inspectorate and the Financial Inspectorate and the Tax Administration are no longer treated as an extended hand of politics because by depolitising the police we are only one step away and we are now all aware that this system of authorities is terribly important to clean up from politics. If we don't do this scalpel or the operation that was announced will end with that people's: "Operation has succeeded and the patient has died.". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u15061	I thank Mr. Dragutin Lesar. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank all the clubs, all the representatives who spoke here in the Croatian Parliament, ministers, Deputy Prime Ministers and I would like to take advantage of the presence of most MPs to announce that tomorrow at 9:15 p.m., MPs should be in the benches, it would be desirable, because at 9.30 p.m., the President of the Slovak Republic Mr. Ivan Gasparović will address the Croatian Parliament. And I would also announce that at 13 o'clock, without a break until 13 o'clock, we would discuss the agenda points and then at 13 o'clock there would be a vote on those agenda points that we concluded. Thank you very much, everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19636	Dear MPs and MPs, we continue with the work of the Croatian Parliament and as a first point today will be what we announced yesterday - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on County, Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, first reading, P.Z. No. 112 The promoter is representative Dragica Zgrebec. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading shall apply, Articles 144 to 150. You received the proposal by mail. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Representative Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19637	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. With these amendments and additions to the Law on County, City and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, I propose an amendment in Article 23 relating to the County of Međimurje in a way that demarcates the village of Štefanec in the area of the Municipality of Mala Sutotica and that it be added to the area of the town of Čakovec. In fact, this initiative was encouraged by the citizens of Štefanec, who encouraged the detachment of their settlement from the Municipality of Mala Subotica and the accession of the town of Čakovec by 543 locals or 78.6% of the total number of full-time residents of this village. In fact, the Municipality of Mala Subotica is the second largest municipality in Međimurje County, has a territory of 43 square kilometers and has a total of 5 thousand, according to the last census of 5676 inhabitants and covers 7 settlements. So one of these settlements wants to be singled out. What are the reasons for this initiative? Citizens in this initiative state several kinds of reasons, from economic, health, education, municipal and religious. In fact, most employees are employed in the town of Čakovec, so not in the area of Male Sutotica. It is seen from the data that we have 43 entrepreneurs in the area of Male Sobota, 79 craftsmen, and a total of 293, which means that most employees living in the Municipality of Mala Subotica are employed outside the municipality itself. Health reasons are hidden in that the village of Štefanec is a suburban settlement of the town of Čakovec, and due to the proximity of the center of the county, many services are being used right in the area of the town of Čakovec. So, from health, education, preschool and there are actually the biggest comments of the population. Since most of them work in the town of Čakovec, they place children in preschool in the town of Čakovec area, and they do not receive that subsidy for the accommodation of children in kindergartens, as those who receive the accommodation of children in the area of the only kindergarten in the municipality in Mali Subotica. Through tax segregation, the facilities that are mainly carried out in the municipality headquarters are funded and that is why their dissatisfaction and the initiative itself are to be singled out from the area of this municipality. Interestingly, children leave the elementary school in the area and belong to the elementary school in the town of Čakovec, i.e. the suburban village of Ivanovec. Their post office is located in the town of Čakovec, so the postal number is Čakovci, not their home municipality of Mala Sutotica. According to religious background, they also belong territorially to the parish in the town of Čakovec. Therefore, binding to the Municipality of Mala Subotica is only administrative and only in the part relating to the tasks carried out in the area of the municipality. Who supported this initiative? With a large number of citizens, therefore, only 24 citizens did not agree with this initiative, he gave such an opinion to the local board of the town of Čakovec and the County of Međimurje, while the Municipality of Mala Suotica itself gave an opinion on the initiative to isolate the settlement of Štefanec with certain remarks, the implementation of this initiative finally gave the conclusion that the municipal council would issue a referendum on the issue of which the people of Štefanec would decide by democratic means whether to extract from the municipality. Since this referendum was not implemented, and the conclusion, or opinion, was reached on 28 May 2007, we consider this a silence of the administration and we actually think that this initiative is legitimate. When the Law on Local Self-Government was adopted in 1992 and set up a territorial structure of local communities at the time, citizens' opinions were not taken into account, nor certain economic criteria were established in the formation of municipalities, cities and counties. This was also the reason why, throughout this period, we have significant initiatives or many initiatives to single out individual settlements and join other territorial, local units or to form new local self-government units. It was formed into dozens of new municipalities in that period since '93. the years when the first elections for local self-government were held. The Government's view states that there are a lot of such initiatives and that the government will consider them in the coming period and make its own proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on districts, cities and municipalities. Since local elections are ahead of us very soon, so just over half a year, I felt that this initiative should also be addressed in a parliamentary debate in order to strengthen citizens' initiative and in some way put pressure on the government to speed up this process. Given the government's reasoning, however, it gave a negative opinion on such a legislative initiative, but I expect the government to take this initiative into account at the most recently, given the upcoming elections, and to come out with such an amendment to this law and to take this initiative into account, as it is almost 100% of the citizens' initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19638	Thank you. Does a government official want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. First they're clubs that are only registered for now. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Vladimir Ivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19639	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community club agrees with the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and supports it, so it does not support this initiative to change the areas of the county, towns and municipalities in the area of border change, so the settlement of Štefanec from the municipality of Mala Sutotica to the town of Čakovec. The main point of the opposition is that a large number of Croatia-like requirements are highlighted and the government is preparing a comprehensive solution, but also the local reasons that have arisen, which is that this initiative has not been given the previous consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is provided by law. Also, this initiative was in the county assembly. The County Assembly, under the law of the established procedure, has declared that it does not object in the event that the citizens' statement is carried out in the legal manner provided that it is organised by the Municipality of Mala Sudotica. This is therefore the third element which is missing in meeting all legal requirements for the correctness and legitimacy of the request. The desire of the village itself to isolate itself has, of course, arguments that can be countered by these arguments made by the applicant, its arguments, or the arguments of those who are the bearers of the initiative, have nothing to do with local self-government. First there's the parish, the school, we know there's a county organization, a job. The only thing that has to do with the administration is that the chief initiator moved his residence from Šenkovec to Čakovec and now wants to move his village with him to Čakovec. While they are other concrete arguments that depend on local self-government, these are kindergartens, CUDs, cemeteries, etc. still and forever together, so it's logical that they stay and work in this place. What I want to especially point out for these local opportunities is that the Municipality of Mala Suotica is a municipality on the highway exit called Čakovec, so the main međimurje exit, and that ten years ago it had the detachment of settlements, three already settlements that were later ten years later and still today run disputes around the borders of the municipality and in fact made it impossible, they dragged the initiative around the formation of economic zones and thus brought almost inexplicable damages. Namely, the surrounding municipalities and the town of Prelog who are neighbouring and who have less economic potential, today in their economic areas of note the Prelog was awarded the most attractive for entrepreneurs by the Ministry of Economy for the whole of Croatia. The Lower King has increased 100% of the exports in the metal branch, thanks to these economic areas as well. Now the municipality of Mala Subotica has finished the economic zone, sold despite all these obstacles that occurred due to the detachment of the Orehovica municipality, and sold construction sites and most of the ten construction sites of the large ones were sold for production facilities. This is another contribution to Croatia's economy, and it is also a contribution because in the meantime the data that looks much worse in Croatia, which is the coverage of exports, is 95% for the first six months, so we are almost covering ourselves after these investments in economic areas, and this economic zone will be crucial in that because it is on the highway exit because it is sold out, because it is communally equipped. What am I saying that for? That's why I'm saying it because even the damages that occur after these divisions, eight of which complicate the procedure and settle property relations, are mostly material. So we have a situation to say the town of Čakovec that had disputes and still has disputes with municipalities and cities of 93 water and has not divided the property of the common municipalities and cities. 98th is a separate municipality of Priblislavec, the municipality of Strahoninec, they have now finished, i.e. the Strahoninec has completed any negotiations these days, so that the town of Čakovec does not give any guarantee that this procedure could be without any adverse consequences for what is going on in the municipality of Mala Subotica. So these are the arguments that are certainly standing, but the will of the citizens in any case, if it will be drawn up in that legal manner, with the assumptions required by the Government and requested by the County Assembly, it will be feasible. So once again as a club, we don't support it, and the arguments from the field say that such initiatives wouldn't be good either at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19640	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Honorable representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19641	Dear Vice President, Prime Minister, fellow MPs and fellow MPs. This proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on districts, towns and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia is the legal establishment of the local settlement Štefanec, so a nice settlement in the beautiful Međimurje County, launched in early April of last year, with the aim of separating the settlement Štefanec from the municipality of Mala Subotica and its annexation to the town of Čakovac. The main reason to launch this initiative, colleague Zgrebec said, lies in the fact that the village of Štefanec in its position is actually a suburban settlement of the town of Čakovec. And the people of Štefanca almost all their daily life needs, so economic, educational, health, social and cultural, come true right in the town of Čakovec. This means that the working-active inhabitants of Štefanca are mainly employed in Čakovec, that preschool children stay in kindergartens, that children of primary school age attend primary school in the neighbouring village of Ivanovec, just as the believers belong to the parish of Ivanovec, and the village of Ivanovec is part of the town of Čakovec. Distribution of postal shipments for the village of Štefanec is also carried out from the post office in Čakovec. Unfortunately, veterinary services, so many locals needed, cannot be used within just two kilometers of a remote veterinary station in Čakovec, but are forced to leave in a 15km remote town of Prelog. It is evident from everything that the people of Štefanca are oriented to the town of Čakovec and that it is logical and rational to wish that they belong to him territorially. On the other hand, they are bound by nothing other than the fact that, according to the current, unquality legal solution, they are administratively involved in this particular municipality. Moreover, the dissatisfaction of locals with the way the Municipality of Mala Subotica has met their life needs so far is an additional reason to launch an initiative to isolate them. I'll give you a few examples. The municipality did not want to co-finance part of the cost of accommodation of their children in kindergartens in other units of local self-government, it inadequately maintained public areas and roads in the settlement and there is much more. In one word, the people of Štefanca estimated that they had no development prospects in the existing administrative environment. Thus, their assessment is best confirmed by the fact that the outreach initiative has supported almost 80% of the total number of citizens with voting law and this high level of civil consent is certainly something to be respected. So, SDP is a party that listens to citizens and tries to find solutions to their life problems and this bill is made up of exactly that motivation and that is why we expected political support. Of course, I do not particularly need to stress how much such support was expected by the locals of Štefanec. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19642	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Vladimir Ivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19643	Mrs. Jelash said in her statement the incorrect allegations, which is that the municipality did not want to pay for kindergarten and did not invest in the area. The first quote is not correct. Namely, kindergartens have a common place in Mali Subotica and that part is not controversial. In other villages, she regularly paid commitments that she had to pay for other kindergartens, but at the same time paid for the water supply of municipalities from the budget of a million kuna, that part of the extra that was not available in the village, which other settlements did not have. So she gave them a lot more, and now she's planning a big reconstruction of roads and hiking trails all over the streets in that same neighborhood, so I don't see any of what's listed as true.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19644	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, the esteemed representative, Željko Vincelj.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19645	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in Article 133(1) states: "The units of local self-government are municipalities and cities and their territory is determined by law. Other units of local self-government can also be established by law." The Parliament of the Republic of Croatia's House of Representatives adopted by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia the Law on districts, towns and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia at a session of 17.1.1997, which determines the counties and units of local self-government, including all the settlements that belong to them. Of course, the law also allows for the separation of settlements from the composition of one unit of local self-government and the accession of another unit of local self-government, based on the decision of the representative bodies of local self-government units, or 1/3 of the population resident in the area of the settlement for which the change is proposed. In addition, there must be a decision by the County Assembly in whose area the change is taking place at the end of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with the legal provisions and the public's interest in the different territorial structure of individual settlements and the necessary decisions, the law was amended every year from 1998 to 2003 and again in 2006. That's good, that's how it's supposed to be. When citizens want a different structure somewhere, they want to be part of a second unit of local self-government to which they are linked by certain concrete interests that they consider to be better satisfied by the other local self-government unit. So, for a time, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has reacted without delay to the documented demands of local communities, proposed to the Parliament to amend the laws that this House of Commons of course adopted. Why wouldn't you? We now have another concrete requirement for a change of laws that attach one settlement in Međimurje to another unit of local self-government. Unfortunately, the request had to be submitted by an SDP representative from Međimurje because the government failed. For its own known reasons, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not set out its constitutional and legal role and has proposed to the Parliament a change of law because of this međimurje requirement. In an opinion that does not support the proposed law in question, counterpart Dragica Zgrebec, the government says all initiatives taken to change the area of municipalities, cities and counties will be handled and all those meeting the legal requirements will be respected. We don't understand what we have here specifically to process that the demands are not sent to change the law to the Parliament. Well, there are several decisions and accompanying documents that all legislators must have delivered and for which it is only necessary to verify credibility. In addition, we read from this opinion of the Government that there are more similar requirements, about plural, not just about this Međimurje requirement. It would be fair if they had written us how many of these demands, but in the end it is completely irrelevant because the law should change and that only these Međimurians from the village of Štefanec are concerned. For God's sake, we change a few hundred laws a year. Why not law on areas of county, cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia if that's what the Međimurians want. It's a job that we, in the interest of 543 locals, do in one of our working hours in the Parliament. And they, according to the documentation we see, are awaiting a reaction from the Government of the Republic of Croatia for a year and a half. For a year and a half, we force them to live in a community that they do not want, and apparently according to government claims and others in Croatia. It's not the devil that the government needs to protect us from passing another law when we're passing several hundred a year, especially because these are specific changes that we can adopt with automatism without a special debate. This is certainly not right by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, especially because new local elections are coming in which all those seeking a local reshuffle should choose their representatives in the authorities in the community who answer them, not the other way around. If six years in a row we could change the law as an individual request arises, we can do it now, not wait for a bunch of requests with the exception of doing one doesn't pay to do it. It is worth it, and it should be done for every request, because behind it is always a few hundred and maybe thousands of dissatisfied citizens. For them, the MPs, at least the opposition in the Parliament, will always be happy to do the hour we need to make a decision on their interest. We therefore propose that of course we accept this proposal to amend the law, because we must accept it if people have met the requirements that we have made in both the Constitution and the law for such cases. Otherwise, we will violate the Constitution and the law ourselves. If, however, the ruling parliament will refuse to apply, it will show that they only do so out of spite of what the bill for amending the law has given out of parliamentary opposition, not the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It is clear to all of us that the opposition has put forward a proposal because the government has failed to do so. And he admits that that's not all, there's certainly more to it. That is why we believe that vanity and spite of the ruling part of the Parliament will arise and accept this proposal for amending the law, and we propose that we reach a conclusion that will oblige the Government to urgently deliver all such local requirements for territorial changes that we would adopt immediately next month at the beginning of the new session of the Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19646	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Vladimir Ivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19647	Mr. Vincelj is two. They're all inaccurate and two clearly. And the first thing the Međimurians want is nothing the Međimurians don't want, the Međimurians said in the county assembly what they had, which is that they will support the initiative if it will be implemented over the law provided for by the way citizens say it, that's one thing. Secondly, we have other initiatives, but what is true, which is that the legal requirements are not met, so neither has the requirement of prior consent, nor the personal statement, nor has the County Assembly given unconditional consent. Therefore, none of the conditions prescribed by law in this case is met. That's the truth. And it is also true again that this House is plagued by a proposal made only by a person, as I said, because one person has changed its residence.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19648	Thank you. And on behalf of the HDSSB club, distinguished representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19649	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Namely, I've come forward for this debate offered by the expected sequence of events. This is not the first proposal to change the areas of county, cities and municipalities and practically when the proposal comes from local level, the Government, that is, by this Croatian Parliament of course of the ruling majority, rejects the proposals. I responded to the word here and publicly show, and regarding the concrete proposal, that the proposal is quite reasoned, and in front of the Government of those who reject it, I did not hear any credible factually justified criticism on this proposal, especially since Mrs. Zgrebec's proposal was elaborated in such a way that she for the municipality and the citizens of Štefanac, settlements, the municipality of Mala Subotica, elaborates, which is why she asked for the separation, i.e. the accession of the town of Čakovec, for economic, health, municipal, religious, religious reasons. I don't think it's irrelevant the fact that 78% is, right, 78% of the people who have the right to vote, who are minors, said they want to leave and want to enter the town of Čakovec. So, not going into the local, because we heard from the local level and from one opinion and the other, but I think it's just enough that if nothing else, and then initiated in the resolution ministries, or in the government, because this is not the only proposal. I'm not just talking about this proposal. There are several suggestions that are laid down in some drawers, proposals that are very well argued and that we expect from the Government of the Republic of Croatia to accept them or say we do not accept them, but with a very good argument opposed to the facts of such and similar proposals. Therefore, given that the HDSSB is holding and has not heard in this debate arguments against this proposal. Given that the HDSSB holds that the proposal is well-founded, that this proposal is 78% of citizens as it has been made, and there has been no correction of the incorrect allegation, that it has given its opinion to the local committee, the town of Čakovec, the county of Međimurska, the HDSSB will support this proposal, aware that it will probably not pass, but also appeal to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to follow all those proposals since 2006 and 2003, which will go towards the amendments and additions of the Law on the areas of county, towns and municipalities, that it will take a hasty to consider and actually bring before this Croatian Parliament the full amendments to this law, where it will take into account all those proposals, which I say for several years already stand in drawers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19650	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Vladimir Ivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19651	So I'd be the first to correct when we're talking about units of local self-government and its names, so we're talking about the town of Chakovec, not Chakovec or something else. In fact, it is the town of Čakovec in Međimurje County, and as far as the will of the Međimurje County is concerned, she clearly wrote on paper that she gave the condition that the plea must be in a legally prescribed manner, not some kind of survey that is listed from house to house where people are being forced. So there is no minimum prerequisite that this declaration of citizens is legitimate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19652	Thank you. There are no more applications for discussion. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Yeah. Dear Representative Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19653	Thank you. Mr. Vice President. I'll be very brief since that's where we expect this second item of the agenda. I would like to thank the clubs that supported this initiative on behalf of the citizens of Štefanec who have submitted the initiative. I would like to say very briefly that it is interesting that a representative of the HDZ Club says that economic, health, social, cultural, educational, religious and other reasons are not the reasons for or are not the needs consumed by local self-government, so they are consumed there because they are closest to the citizens. The other thing is the level where they finance or organize. It is incorrect that the proposal did not meet the legal requirements because if it had not met them, it would not have been in the procedure, or there is no referendum prescribed by law. I know that counterpart Ivkovic has an ungrateful duty to defend the government's opinion here and has signed consent to this initiative as president of the county assembly. I thank my colleagues and colleagues who supported this initiative, and I expect that despite the negative opinions it has given on this bill, the government will take this initiative into account soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19654	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when we get the conditions for voting on that wheel.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19655	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on districts, towns and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, first reading, P.Z. No. 112. MP Dragica Zgrebec. The debate is closed. I conclude in line with the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which reads: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on districts, towns and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia is not accepted. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This bill, or conclusion, was adopted by 78 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 36 against. Now we'd move on to the agenda. - Proposal for a law on blindness allowance, first reading, P.Z. No. 63, Proposer: The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law apply to the adoption of this law. You received the proposal by mail. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, the Committee on Law and the Committee on Health and Social Care. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Representative's representative, Ms Vesna Škulić, member of the committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19657	Dear Mr. President, State Secretary with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues, representatives of the Croatian Alliance of the Blind who are upstairs at the Gallery. After a long process and breaking around the bill of addition to blindness, we finally see it on our benches. Although the history of this bill goes to the very end of the last century, it seems that sometimes time doesn't do itself and that eventually we had to face the problem again. But I would not talk about past times but about what is now and here, and that is that the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities on 13 June 2007 referred to the parliamentary procedure of the Proposed Law on blindness, which supported the initiative of the Croatian Association of Blind and Croatian Association of Deaf Blind Persons, which aimed at reducing the difference in the level of the aid allowance and the care of blind and deaf persons who were created because of their determination of the basis of the cause of disability and not their degree. On 23 August 2007, the Committee adopted the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which proposed that the Assembly not accept this bill by reason that it is difficult to implement in the current scope and that a working group is set up to define the concept of serious disability so that all persons to whom this concept can be applied can be placed in a level playing field. In this opinion, the government assessed that the rights of persons with disabilities should be resolved systematically, taking into account the balance sheet options of the state budget. On 17 March 2008, the Committee addressed the Committee of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for persons with disabilities a letter requesting information on the results of work of the mentioned group to define the concept of disability and on the implementation of measures two containing the obligation to redefine and unify social services and monetary benefits systems and whose indicator of implementation is the making of regulations in accordance with the social compensation reform strategy and the mandatory establishment of a national equality strategy for persons with disabilities from 2007 to 2015 from Chapter 25 – Social Care and Pension Insurance and otherwise the deadline for implementation was 2007. Mr. President, please ensure peace in the assembly. Thank you, Mr. President. Please ensure peace in the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19658	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19659	Just calm down, please, in the assembly, secure. Thank you very much. In response to the Commission received on 27 March 2008, it is stressed that it will join the creation of the said regulation after the completion of the social compensation reform whose implementation is under way. It would be a brief chronology of this law's travel over the past year and a half at Parliament-Government-Sabor. By the way, that proposal went into procedure in 1998. The Republic of Croatia as a member of the United Nations and of the Council of Europe, as well as a signator of all key conventions and standards in the area of social and economic security of citizens, has assumed the obligation to protect and promote human rights of persons with disabilities, especially in the area of equalising opportunities for persons with disabilities, so that they can participate equally in civil, political, economic, social and cultural areas of life. By its commitment to the full achievement of all fundamental and human rights of persons with disabilities, the Republic of Croatia also confirmed by signing the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities of the United Nations in March 2007 which was subsequently ratified by the Croatian Parliament on 1 June 2007. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia directly guarantees the special concern of the state in the protection of persons with disabilities and their inclusion in life and by example of general principles determines the right to equality of life through the adoption of special laws. The need for the adoption of an add-on law on blindness is also determined by the National Strategy for equating opportunities with disability in 2007 to 2015, which is listed as one of the objectives of reforming the social care system to allow all persons with disabilities equal access to social assistance, social services and money giving, i.e. ensuring that all assumptions of an appropriate standard of living for persons with disabilities are ensured. One measure provides for the creation of an appropriate legal solution in relation to the definition and unification of social services systems and monetary givings in line with the reform strategy, social benefits. It also provides for the creation of a professional and analytical basis for the possibility of improving the rights from the basis of disability. The social compensation reform strategy adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in February 2007 is also the primary objective of reforming social compensation plans to equalise social benefits through the rationalisation of the number of rights, aligning the conditions at the level of compensation arising from the same or similar rights in different systems. One of the measures provided for in this strategy is the unification of the disability-based fee, thus equating among other things the level of compensation with regard to the type and degree of mental or physical damage. According to the above strategy, such compensation would be granted in cash as a separate type of cash aid. So far, on several occasions, the meetings of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities have been pointed to the unequal position of the blind in relation to the amount of compensation allocated to the individual blind person who is related to the cause of blindness and not to the degree of disability. In view of the cause of blindness, the amount of aid and care allowances in the welfare system ranged from 280 kuna to 400 kuna, in the pension insurance system is around 896 kuna and in the system of protection of military and civilian invalidity wars up to 3320 kuna. In the system for the protection of Croatian wartime wartime disabled people from the Homeland War, for the disabled of the first degree up to 384 kuna. In addition to the adoption of this law, experience from neighbouring countries, where the problem of supplementation with the Republic of Croatia is very well solved. For example. in Albania 80 euros, in Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina 175 euros, Slovenia 300, Germany 500 and France 715 euros. The proposed law provides for an amount of blinding allowances of 2161 kuna, which would not cause a greater burden on the state budget and would effectively monitor the country's economic development. Namely, the aid and care allowance from the base of the 280 kuna Social Care Act and 400 kuna, as it is now in the Republic of Croatia, is not certainly in line with the real possibilities of the country. The most basic needs for which this supplement would be granted is to go to a doctor or to buy with the necessary escort, administrative assistance and assistance in correspondence, more frequent use of telephone services due to the inability to move or write, more frequent use of taxi services, assistance from guide dogs, subscription to specialized magazines, help with child rearing, purchase of equipment and services necessary for the daily needs of blind persons, the purchase of expensive... technical aids, black printing system, information equipment, computer, scanner, printer,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The speeches, the... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] rare, and necessary help in the household. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The costs of meeting cultural needs are not listed here. The need to include deaf and blind persons within the framework of this law comes from the increased costs that a deaf and blind person has in everyday life. Deaf-blind persons are one of the groups of people with the most difficult type of disability. There are four main categories of damage to which deaf-blind persons, deafness and lack of visibility, deafness and blindness, deafness and lack of vision and deafness and blindness are classified. For example, the deaf-blind person who has a deafness and lack of visibility is much harder to manage to communicate with other people on his own because he cannot function in the way the blind person functions, since hearing and hearing damage are partial and the information that the person receives is partial. Deaf-blind people are still in a very invisible position in relation to the exercise of rights and privileges on a legal basis, since deaf-blindness has only recently begun to be recognised as a separate disability. So far, deaf-blind persons have exercised their right exclusively as blind, or deaf persons, which does not fit the needs of a deaf-blind person. However, those deaf-blind people who are not completely deaf or blind also face many difficulties in everyday life and restrictions that make independence and independence more difficult. They are unable to move on their own because their communication is difficult, they cannot rely on any sense other than tactile, they are made it difficult to communicate and access information because they also cannot rely entirely on one because of double damage. As regards the cost specification, it should be noted that deaf-blind people in everyday life face many obstacles that are posed by simultaneous damage to vision and hearing. Obstructions are related to independent movement and orientation, independent communication and access to information. Unlike only the blind or only deaf persons, the deaf-blind person is unable to rely on the use of other senses because they are both damaged. The needs of deaf-blind persons are mostly a translator for deaf-blind people as a support in communication and mobility in everyday life, an educational translator during schooling, using alternative forms of communication, for example. pictograms, objects and meanings, specific vibrotactile aids not provided by the orthopaedic and other aid regulations, etc. One of the essential reasons for including this law is the fact that the vast majority of deaf people are low socioeconomic status in which they find it very difficult to meet even their most basic needs of life. The benefits that deaf people achieve within pension or social insurance are extremely low and range from 280 to 1000 kuna which can hardly meet both the existential needs and the specific needs that some deaf people have in everyday life. The proposed law introduces a new Institute of blinding allowances to compensate for additional costs that are exposed to blind and deaf persons in everyday life and resulting from the nature of their disability. This means that all, that this surcharge covers the standard cost of living already specific costs that are previously explained in detail. The reasons for the shortfall of that right and its achievement in relation to the exercise of other rights from the basis of the Social Care Act are also defined. The right to an allowance for assistance and care and the right to a personal disability. The adoption of a law regulating the Institute of blinding allowances would prevent large differences within one category of persons with disabilities, blind and deaf persons based on the cause of disability, thus affecting the strengthening of social cohesion and solidarity of all members of society. The proposed amount of allowances for blind and deaf persons is similar to those applicable in other countries. It would remove human rights violations of blind and deaf people who happen by determining an aid and care allowance as a result of disability and not by their degree. A total of 55 million, 677 thousand 216 kuna are allocated annually under all aid and care laws to the blind. According to the provisions of the proposed law, the monthly amount of blinding allowances would amount to 2 thousand 161 kuna. According to available data in Croatia, there are 5 thousand 806 blind people who could be covered by this law. Of this number, however, the number of blind people from the Homeland War should be rejected by 75 and blind persons with World War II civil or military disability, 181 of them. So a total of 256 people, since these people are well-delivered through the Institute of Extras for Aid and Care in Special Laws. At the same time, the application of this law would reduce the budgetary need for compensation for assistance and care paid through the Social Care Act and the Pension Insurance Act, at a monthly amount of 3 million 752 thousand 848 kuna, or annually of 45 million 34 000 176 kuna. According to these data, an additional amount of 98 million 888 thousand 424 kuna should be provided annually in the budget of the Republic of Croatia for the category of blind persons. According to international indicators, there are about 5 to 18 deaf people of all ages. The Dodir Association has registered a total of 144 people with deafness status, while 64 people with progressive double visual and hearing impairment have been recorded recently, making up a total of 208 deaf people. The number of 5 thousand 550 blind persons should be increased by 144 deaf people. If the proposed amount of surcharge of two thousand 161 kuna is taken into account, the monthly additional costs charged by this law would then be added to 311 thousand 184 kuna per month, which would amount to an additional 3 million 734 thousand 208 kuna per year. Dear colleagues and colleagues, accepting the fact that others have problems, but also accept some of the specificities of the blind. Between 80 and 85% of the information is received through the eye. According to all the polls, the blind are at the bottom of the desirable reception at the workplace. The aids used by the blind are the most expensive aids of all people with disabilities. And in the end, can you imagine life without color? If you think about a reduced notional system in which many things have names but the blind person has never seen or touched them. After all, close your eyes and imagine the fact that you will never open them again and compare it to the EUR 38 charity that awaits you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, it's your turn. Are we really a society that looks and doesn't see or by our people blind next to healthy eyes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19660	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vesni Škulić. Do, excuse me, the gallery's parliamentary debate is followed by representatives of the Croatian Union of blind and undersighted persons and we welcome them. Madam, on behalf of the Government of Ms. Dorica Nikolic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Care. [[Applause.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19661	Dear Mr. President, distinguished members of the Croatian Association of Blind, Honorable Ladies and Gentlemen of Parliamentary Representatives and Representatives. I would no longer refer in my presentation to the opinion you have here on the benches, the opinion of the Government that you should not accept this law on a blinding allowance. I would just like to explain some more details that may not be presented here in the opinion, which is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been working for a long time to establish a difficult disability, since no government has so far, not a single document in the Republic of Croatia in the last 18 years that we do not actually have defined severe disability or does not actually have a qualified category, which actually means severe disability, and how many people are practically covered by severe disability in order to get an extra to become disabled. For the first time, the government came to terms with this when it was working on a social compensation reform strategy where we found exactly that all persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia are skilled in 5 places and that exactly what we, all of which we later accepted and also now the recent Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities of the UN actually favours that persons with disabilities are in a different position according to the various skills that we have inherited so far. Therefore, both at this point and in person, blind persons therefore have different what you have heard in the previous presentation, have different blindness benefits depending on where they are skillful and when they are artificial. In order not to make a new mistake and create a situation that is present, that even within one disability you have different actually fees without having in the whole Republic of Croatia for people with disabilities found what is actually a difficult disability. Because the fact that we experts are still based only on the international classification of disease, and not on the international classification of disability and health that should actually be done. And that is why two working groups are working at this time, one at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship and one at the Ministry of Health and Social Care, which is based on the Social Compensation Reform Strategy, which the Government adopted for 2007 and 2008 ends exactly these two very important categories which are actually a real orientation for us when in the Social Care Act which should be its draft, the first draft by the end of 2008 will be put into discussion by the working group. So these two things we have to solve in order to actually come to an overall solution and what the Government says is a systematic resolution of people with disabilities. At this point, we believe, as most European Union countries have done, that they do not go with individual laws, but in fact. The countries that had individual laws brought them together into one roof law precisely to have in one place all persons with disabilities actually solved. So as not to take that step to correct later the mistakes already made by neighbouring countries that have advised us in the talks between the Ministry of Health and the social welfare of one country and another. For example, we recently had a two-day conversation with the ministry, the same Ministry of the Republic of Austria who also advised us and told us that we were on the right track and not to make the mistake they made. So they went to roof law because they realized that in fact individual laws practically make more segregation between people with disabilities than if it were one roof law that solves all persons with disabilities. As we and the signatories of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities of the UN and ratified and signed the Convention, we believe that from that moment on we cannot actually make mistakes that would make these things, since we do not have a solution to the burden of disability and since we do not actually have a solution to the skills that would ensure it. And since both working groups are about to end, since we have a strategy for reforming social benefits that gave us this task, we think that this year we will end it, and we will find ourselves in the coming year a law that will solve it comprehensively, not only for the blind, but for all persons with disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19662	I thank Mrs. Secretary of State. We have a correction to the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19663	Thank you. So it is not true that a lack of roof law should prevent a blinding supplement from being resolved, for common sense also tells us that a blind person is indeed a serious invalidity. So, waiting for that law, I don't know how long it'll stretch. You've been talking for a year, and I don't know. You can do two, you can do five years. What would be God's question, but the fact is that in Austria, the Czech Republic, France, Italy, Russia, Spain, Sweden, Norway, Switzerland, BiH, Montenegro, Serbia, etc. etc. It's settled. So on behalf of the projection that we're going to pass the roof law one day, we're not solving what we might be able to solve today. So if we pass the roof law then you fit this law into it, not that we're not dealing with this situation on behalf of a designed future that who knows if it's going to come the way it's going.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19664	Thank you very much. The second is the correction of the incorrect allegations and the esteemed representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19665	Well, that's exactly what my colleague Jurevic said. It is incorrect that the prenuptial process itself is the reason why such a bill should be rejected, in 2004 as early as the representatives of the government, i.e. before the elections were made, I was said to believe in other associations, and here, in particular, the Association of the Blind in Zadar. Well, it's not possible that you didn't make that roof law until today. At the end of the fourth quarter is right here. You've given your opinion in the spring and you're just making it harder, you're finding reasons and excuses instead of finding solutions. And the final solution is to adopt, i.e. to accept the adoption of such an opinion, to give up this opinion and to agree with this commendable initiative that the Government has not done, this committee does.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19666	Thank you very much. We'll continue with the committee's reporters if they want to take the floor. Honorable representative Dr. Andrija Hebrang, on behalf of the Committee on Health and Social Care. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19667	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your honor, Madam Secretary of State. At its 9th session, the Committee on Health and Social Care discussed the proposal for a Law on Supplement to Blindness submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of the National Minorities Act of 29 April this year. The members of the committee had written opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on this proposal for a law, and the opening statement was submitted by a representative of the applicant. Vojin Peric, who is the president of the Croatian Association of Blind Persons, also participated in the debate. Unrelentingly, the board members pointed out that the amount of compensation for foreign assistance and care is too small, that it is not enough to meet the special needs of the blind. However, the provisions of the bill governing the amount of surcharge on the blind and deaf person's blind place priority over persons with other types of damage. The reasons for the introduction of a special fee as proposed by this proposal, which would mitigate the difficulties faced by these people in everyday life, depend on the extent and severity of the damage and other persons with severe disability. The obligation of the Republic of Croatia was warned by members of the Committee as signatories of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and Facultative Protocol signed under this Convention to ensure all human rights and fundamental freedoms for all persons with disabilities without discrimination on the basis of disability. It is therefore necessary to resolve the rights of persons with disabilities in full and systematic terms as soon as possible. In doing so, it will be necessary to determine which persons with the most severe disability rates, how many such persons are, since different approaches are used to assess the severity of disability, and data on the number of people with the most severe 100% disability are only indicative estimates, not the actual number of people with the most severe disability. I add that now the disability of this most difficult is determined by 5 different bodies of skills whose criteria are not uniform and that disability is determined by diagnosis, and according to the international classification of disability and health is not determined, and this needs to be harmonised. In preparation for the unification of these criteria as well as the way in which the degree of disability is trained, we welcome the government's decision to speed it up. A series of measures taken to improve the situation of people with disabilities. The National Strategy for Equality for Persons with Disabilities has been adopted to create a comprehensive legal framework will ensure the highest level of protection of persons with disabilities. The Social Compensation Reform Strategy is aimed at, among other things, a better quality approach to social benefits and their unification. Finally, the provisions of the new Social Care Act, which should be adopted by the end of the current year, will level the conditions for all categories of persons with disabilities. Members of the Committee therefore support all efforts by the Government of the Republic of Croatia aimed at progress and further strengthening the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities. All envisaged measures, as stated by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the opinion delivered, are necessary to implement as fully as possible and as soon as possible, the board members pointed out. Following a broad discussion, the Committee concluded that the proposal for a blinding allowance law in the text was not adopted as proposed by the applicant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19668	Thank you very much. Here, I'm opening a debate about the bill. We'll go clubbing. The first debate is fifteen minutes for the HDZ club and the distinguished representative Mrs Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19669	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Ms. Secretary of State, colleagues of the motionary's representative. Here, at first I would like to personally welcome the representatives of the Croatian Union of blind and impaired persons. At the beginning of this presentation, I would like to point out immediately that the Croatian Democratic Community Club will not support the adoption of the Law on Supplement to Blindness. Namely, the Republic of Croatia signed and ratified the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and Faculty Protocol with the Convention and thus committed itself to promoting, protecting, fulfilling the full and equal enjoyment of all human rights and fundamental freedoms, all persons with disabilities and promoting respect for their dignity without discrimination on the basis of disability. Article 5 of the Convention states explicitly in paragraph 2 that the States of the signatories will prohibit any discrimination on the basis of disability and provide persons with disabilities with equal and effective protection against discrimination. My colleagues and colleagues, people with disabilities alone do not support a very large number of regulations that regulate their problems because it is difficult for state institutions to deal with this, and let alone disabled persons, and the adoption of a proposed law in which only 2 categories of people with disabilities are dealt with in addition to this would lead to a short discussion of other laws that would certainly suggest other categories of persons with disabilities. After such discussions, for example, the law on extras on paraplegia and tetraplegia, the law on extras on dystrophy and other muscle diseases, deafness, child and cerebral paralysis, etc., etc. The proposal states that in 1999 it initiated the adoption of this law, but in 2001, the Croatian Parliament did not accept the adoption of the law and for exactly the same or the same reasons as we do today. Respecting the need to level the conditions for all categories of people with disabilities, the then government has not offered a proper solution to this problem by the end of its term of office. I believe that then the government wanted to solve this problem, but this problem was difficult to solve and the government probably had that intention, but it was not even a little simple, should approach it very seriously and create the foundations for its resolution. The proposal also states that the need for the adoption of the Blindity Supplement Act also lays down the National Strategy for Equalisation of opportunities for persons with disabilities for the period from 2007 to 2015. The national strategy is about equating opportunities for all persons with disabilities and in all segments of their lives. The National Strategy also provides for the reform of the social care system that the Government has launched and which will allow all disabled persons equal access to social support. So, all persons with disabilities, not just some categories, because it is not acceptable to approach how at least some categories of people with disabilities should be solved because we would then knowingly do discrimination, and I believe colleagues and colleagues that none of us in this House of Commons want it. Knowing that the benefits of persons with disabilities are insufficient, the Government has adopted the Social Compensation Reform Strategy, and this strategy will result in an evening of social benefits through the rationalisation of the number of rights, the harmonisation of the conditions and the amount of compensation resulting from the same or similar in different systems. One of the measures provided for in the strategy is the unification of several disability benefits, thus equating compensation in view of the type and degree of physical damage or mental impairment. The preparations are also under way to determine the unique body of art that we certainly need, which will determine disability, its degree and percentage. Only a systematic solution to the problem of people with disabilities can we expect results. Therefore, the addition to severe disability would be a solution for all categories of people with disabilities. Here's what we heard from the secretary of state, we'll be here soon to discuss the new Social Care Act that we should and we believe we will, equalize the conditions for all categories of people with disabilities. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Croatian Democratic Community Club is not against the recognition of the right to blind, weak-sighted, deaf, people with tetraplegia, paraplegia or any other category of persons with disabilities, but it is against discrimination among categories of persons with disabilities, and the adoption of the proposed law would mean that. It would just mean discrimination and put a blind and deaf person in a privileged position compared to people with other types of disability. The Croatian Democratic Community Club is not of the opinion that blind and deaf people do not need a larger allowance, but it also needs all other persons with disabilities. Therefore, as I mentioned at the outset, the Croatian Democratic Community club will not support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19670	Thank you very much. To correct the incorrect allegations we have the application of the distinguished representative Vesna Škulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19671	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Lukačić, when we talk about discrimination, unfortunately, she already exists among groups of people with disabilities. So it's not just, you wouldn't just be covered by two categories when we're talking about blind and deaf people, since, by special laws and increased disability benefits, the disabled of the Homeland War are also used by some special regulations and categorizations, which makes it difficult to use users of the right pilot of the personal assistant project. Also, I don’t know the rules for the assessment of severe disability, and parents and carers of children are used with the most severe degree of damage. So I don't think this would deepen discrimination, but it would simply help to finally move, roll cars and cover everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19672	Thank you very much. Next up is the Club of Representatives of the HNS and on behalf of the club will speak the esteemed representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19673	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, distinguished gentlemen representatives of the Croatian Alliance of Blind and Low-sighted Persons. When such a bill is found on the agenda in front of this House, it is an opportunity to wonder what the state in which we live is for. What is the function at all, what is the fundamental function of every country? By definition, the function of the state is to protect the citizens. It is particularly important to protect those who are depressed for various reasons, which are already at the beginning reduced by their guilt. If the state is unable to fulfill its primary task, then the question is what does it serve in the first place. The Croatian People's Party openly advocates equalising the rights and opportunities of persons with disabilities, but not only in terms of compensating the handicaps in relation to persons with no disability but also in terms of reducing the differences, reducing the barriers that the state has set among themselves. Imagine eight completely blind people. I'll give them names. They're completely blind, none of them see. But the way they gained blindness is different. Bojan's been blind since birth. Mary was blinded by severe mechanical injuries. They can occur in different ways, in a car accident, in an accident, in a terrorist act, in any way. John was blinded by the progression of diabetes. Josepha is blind because of the accident at work. Peter is blind because as a member of the World War II Armed Forces, he lost both eyes. The Adriatic was a civilian in World War II and was also out of sight in the bombing. In the Homeland War, Lucia lost sight as a civilian as a result of the war. Vedrana, Vedrana was a volunteer, and as a result of her war activities, she also lost sight. Eight people who can't see. Our system recognizes them according to the circumstances in which they've lost sight. Eight people who have the same problems, the same fate, are completely different in rights. See in this reasoning the laws of the five categories in which compensation rights are realised, so you will see that the difference between the lowest and the most is not less than 14 times. The fact is that we have such differences and recognizes them, imposes them on the system in other forms of disability. That's right. But it's actually saying that the whole system is discriminatory and today to say that such a bill discriminates against people with disabilities, forgive the expression, sounds hypocritical, because they're already discriminated and it's hard to discuss this argument. It has been said for years that this will be resolved by a whole legal solution and it would certainly be best if that were the case, but for ten years the blind and the undersighted have been waiting for this law, waiting for a solution that will be either in particular or in the roof law, and they have not received it. This is the third government, an excuse fourth, which avoids getting into fifth gear in that sense. Each of them is individually responsible for the situation. None of them deserved to be exculpated. But this law has been on the agenda for six months. Isn't that also one way of humiliating for people completely blind and deaf behind this initiative and recognised by the Human Rights Committee? Will the crown really fall from our heads when we pass this roof law that it accepts this solution? And then finally reduce those discriminatory regulations that are already in force. Five and a half thousand people now listen, because they can't see what we're going to say, how we're going to stand, how the government is going to stand up to them. Five and a half thousand people are one city. This is about a little over 100 million kuna. We could say, that's a lot of money. Of course it is, when you don't even have a kuna, then half your kuna is full. But our mission in Afghanistan costs 200 million kuna a year. 200 million kuna. We're not saying it's not necessary, we're asking a matter of priorities. Croatia's budget for this year envisioned 80 million kunas for ongoing court proceedings, 100 million kuna for computer services in the tax administration, almost 400 million kuna for subsidising shipbuilding. All right. But the question is priority. The blind are, frankly, like other people with disabilities, full of hats that are always on the list of priorities at the bottom. And we need to understand that we don't share that kind of trouble with them. It's up to us to understand that. Tolerance is the obligation of the majority. The fact that our system recognizes the circumstances of disability, and not a degree, cannot possibly be just, cannot be something we are proud of. There is probably no country in the world where the situation is ideal, but I'm sure there are a whole series of countries that have dealt with it differently and better, that approach people with disabilities with more dignity. It is 14 times higher in the most paid category than in the lowest. Who of us can say that his needs are 14 times greater than anyone else's, when we talk about quality life. The paradox is that the legislator uses the same arguments the government uses to reject it. That proves the system isn't good. And we all know that, and we have a great responsibility. The Croatian People's Party club believes this bill is not ideal. He's got a couple of drawbacks, too. The fact is that the proposal is a matter of deadlines, procedures for commissions and so on, something that should be done. But it seems to us that the government has just been able to take that step to improve it by proposing amendments to this law. And that these few months ahead of us until the adoption of the roof law, if we take the government by word, we see how that system works, say, on a segment of the population with disabilities and see if that's it. And that we already have a solution then that we can then install into the roof law and say that, we have tried, we have positive effects and now it is our turn to apply this situation to all persons with disabilities, especially those with severe disabilities. In that sense, we do not create the illusion that this law will be passed, because if the government rejected it, if the ruling party's club rejected it, it has no future. But our colleagues must be aware of their responsibility. Here they made a commitment that the roof laws would be passed in 2009. We'll take your word for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19674	Thank you very much. We've got three corrections on incorrect allegations. First respected representative Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19675	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's what I'd do to correct just one of the several incorrect allegations that my colleague listed. He said the system wasn't good, the system was discriminatory. Well, for God's sake, gentlemen, exactly when it comes to people with disabilities, finally after the signing of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, we can say that people with disabilities are spoken of in Croatia in another way. Finally, equal rights and equal opportunities are recognised to all persons with disabilities, and from this system they will not be blind or deafly left out, absolutely certain.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19676	Thank you very much. Next correction for Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19677	Thank you very much. Well, here's a colleague who put out a whole series of incorrect allegations obviously not knowing the matter, so I'm going to fix only one key that indicates that with incorrect guidance he actually wanted to reverse the subject with being. So he said, quote, "At this point 5500 people listen because they can't see." That's not true. According to one classification in Croatia, 5500 people would be used. The proposal before us would benefit from 5800, and according to the official classification of the IKB or the International Classification of Disease 6356. So 856 no longer sees what the colleague has stated, and that is why it is necessary to fix the situation first, and then make decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19678	Thank you very much. And lastly, the third amendment was reported by the esteemed representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19679	Comrade Gorane, you said the fact that this bill awaited a six-month debate was proof of the government's unpreparedness to solve the problem. Unfortunately, this is not proof of the government's unpreparedness, but it is evidence that some 6 thousand blind people led by their alliance, discrimination in the material rights of disabled persons who rest at the beginning, and not the consequences, have seen before us who boast that we see in one and another stop of Mark's square. It's just proof of that, nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19680	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, a distinguished representative, Vesna Škulić, also appeared.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19681	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, just for public information, so you don't get the wrong impression, that this is just about blind people and deaf people. Since few of you know the chronology of events, which is that somewhere in 2004, the Croatian Association of Blinds proposed to all roof organizations of people with disabilities to finally make a list of the most severe damages, i.e. a list of the most difficult persons with disabilities. However, the government bickered, so it somehow placed itself as a buffer zone between the Croatian Alliance of Blinds and other roof organizations of people with disabilities. Unfortunately, other organisations with disabilities said that they could not get a plate, that there were no calculation tables, invented various ways, in some way to protect the government for its own reasons. Unfortunately, I must tell you, therefore, that civil society has not given support to so other organisations of persons with disabilities to the Croatian Union of Blinds and they have set out with their Law on an allowance to the most difficult disability. They also suggested that if they were able to agree before the draft of this law itself, they would even delay the adoption, that is, the debate on this law, but that they would finally say the date on which they would start to reform and when a list of persons with the most severe degree of damage would finally be made. So this isn't something you've had to do right now, right now and here, no matter what you've been waiting for for 10 years. However, as for social care reform, I have been listening as an advocate for the fifth year in a row, and this reform cannot arrive. You can imagine those who live off the minimum, those who are unemployed, what their expectations are, and what their life is, that is, what their quality of life is, that can even be talked about the quality of life. Also, I think I'm repeating the words of my colleague Beusa about, that it's hypocritical here to talk about discrimination, it's really hypocritical. Yeah, we ratified the convention, so what? So we ratified the convention and it now protects us that we have no discrimination. Unfortunately, we do. We have colleagues Lukacic and you and me and these colleagues upstairs at the gallery. We have because we can't come to this pay phone here in the Parliament. So that's where discrimination begins, not to mention other forms of discrimination, this is minor compared to those of people with disabilities. I'd also like to say that we're talking about a privileged position here. Anyone who speaks at all in a privileged position. What a privileged position it is if you meet your needs, so you can't cover with regular incomes, with minimums, minimums. My colleague Lukačić and I are lucky to be Parliamentarians, Mrs. Attorney, too, so our salaries can cover certain costs of our orthopaedic aids. But imagine people living off personal disability from thousands and 200 kunas. What privileged positions are we talking about? So that's what I had to say because of the perception of the public not to realize that other people with disabilities are being excluded with the most severe degree of damage. Also, a national strategy is being discussed and the government will now pass. The government was obliged to move towards reforms, i.e. to equalising rights with the national strategy from 2003 to 2006. My dear colleagues have done nothing but work group that I don't know if she's even held a meeting? And that also means that with these delays, we support discrimination. Once again, our signature and ratification of the Convention, if we do nothing, if we are talking about a happy future, and we are not working in the happy present or in the present as it is, then ratification means absolutely nothing to us, but only one report that we will accept or not accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19682	Thank you very much. Now we'll finish the morning part of today's session, and we'll continue at 15.00 hours with an exhibition on behalf of the SDP club. Thank you very much. Here, we can continue the afternoon section now. There's, at least as far as I can see, a representative of the SDP Club who's registered for the next debate on behalf of the club. Mr. Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19684	... the blindness of the blind and the blind. [[Specially enabled.]] However, before I begin my debate, I must point out one fact that you may not be aware of, and that is the fact that our body, our brain, is 80% of the information by sight. And undersighted and blind people can't watch their favorite movie, they can only have their favorite song. Weak and blind persons are at the same time able to work and to do, and they want to do so. However, it is clear that with attraction and work, I cannot provide all that they need for daily life. You and I, if we close our eyes and imagine green, green meadows, green forests, we can get to know that. People who have been blind since birth can't do that, they don't know what green is. For these reasons it is completely declassified and hypocritical to say that there is discrimination in the system and that this discrimination in the system discriminates against disabled persons and that for this reason we must not pass this law today, because here we will discriminate on the long disabled persons. But note, 80% of our information to a blind and undersighted person cannot get what we get. They can't work on a laptop. We all have that laptop, we watch the Internet. If they want to see how many undersighted people there are in the world, today the distinguished representative Hebrang spoke about how many undersighted persons there are in Croatia, it is not possible for the weak and blind to get through the internet. I can only believe what we who see and tell them. Therefore, it is extremely by the government and the secretary of state, and also by the HDZ Club, that we now want to balance the system, that we want everyone to get everything they need and forget about that one fact that blind and weak-sighted people can't see it. That discrimination they can't see, I can only believe there's discrimination. No matter how many impaired and blind persons there are in Croatia, we operate with a number of 5806. Most of them are able to work and attract and have the right, and they want to be treated perfectly naturally, in a way that answers them most. Not that we say they need to be answered, which means that without pity and without any hemungs they only want help when they really need that help. The aid for blindness is the help they need. It's not charity, it's not something we give them. We're just trying to compensate them for the lack they're not to blame for having. Blind people have the right to do so because as skillful as they are in overcoming all obstacles, even bureaucratic ones, there's still a lot they can't do on their own, which they have to pay for money as someone else's help. Besides, they have to buy the necessary supplies. One of the necessary, very expensive assists the laptop. Another tool I think we don't know about is a regular cell phone we buy. Now, not to advertise the company, we have a new type of cell phone coming to Croatia. Their cell phone costs a lot, a lot more expensive than our cell phone, the ones we see. The ones we see say we want to balance the system, we don't want to give blind people that supplement. In addition, they must buy other aids such as alarm clocks, special watches, not to mention that for most blind people, the biggest prize they get is when they get a guide dog. And unfortunately, most of them don't have enough resources to get you dogs. That dog is their greatest value. It allows them to live normally, work, move around the city, come to their jobs, and I'll talk about jobs later. As we have spoken about some other laws that we will talk about, we are evidently placed in countries that do not understand it or do not want to understand it. So this, the blinding allowance in France, is 715 euros. All right, France has higher gross national income, we don't have to compare with them. But Slovenia, 50km from us, in Ljubljana where the same ministry exists, where the government also exists, they decided it was 258 euros. Albania, which would not want to compare with it, is 80 euros and our neighbours Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro and Serbia 175 euros. We give our blind and weak-sighted persons only 38 euros, from 200 to 400 kuna. You go to any shopping mall or somewhere, you'll spend that 200 kuna in two minutes. What can I buy with 200 or 400 kuna?- I'm sorry. And what we want and the SDP club will absolutely support this bill, is that it's 2,000 100 and something and it's not enough. And that's small, but it's still some expression of our solidarity with those people who can't see and don't know what green looks like. However, not everything is black, there are bright moments, there are bright ends, so if the Government can't, then the local community has taken on this burden, so let me just mention that the programs that take care of the blind people have lived in cities like Zagreb, Rijeka, Koprivnica, Čakovec, Požega, cities where SDP is in power. Is it because the SDP has the hearings they need, the ones they need and who need it. In these cities, the problems faced by blind people have been identified, aided in the procurement, and particularly welcomed insurance actions for the largest number of guide dogs. Because that's what makes it possible for blind people to live, work and to make themselves more comfortable and be useful to the community. The local community in these cities recognized another thing that is not sufficiently recognised at the state level, which is the employment of blind people. In many city administrations, blind people work in these cities, in places that are not just telephoners, in the city of Zagreb, in the city office, one of the most important persons, in the city's health, work, social policy and defenders is the person who is blind. She knows better than anyone else what the needs of blind and undersighted people are. It is evident from these examples that when there is a will, problems can be solved for general satisfaction. However, let me say that in these cities not only problems are solved, that the problems of the impaired and the blind are not solved, but also the problems of other disabled persons are solved, and then that observation turns out that we will now discriminate against the disabled if we give the blind the unfortunate add-on of 2100 kuna. At the state level, obviously some things aren't solved, because here, for 10 years now, it's been trying to pass this famous law on blinding allowance. I made a little effort, so I pulled out a phonogram of the argument of 1998, we could say 10 years ago here, where the proposal for a law on add-on to blindness got support in this House both from opposition and from the authorities. But that's what's left. And here, the law has been waiting for six months now, now according to the majority's position and according to the HDZ Club's position, we're going to say no now, and then we're probably going to one day that law or law that's going to solve other disabled people's problems, maybe one day we're going to pass. But the representatives of the alliance of the blind did not give up on it, so let's say in the last term they were with Minister Ljubicic, who received them neatly, told them a few nice words and sent them home. However, they did not stop at that and made their own bill, and it is rather unusual that the bill came through the Committee on Human Rights and National Minorities, and did not come through the Committee on Health, Social Policy or through another committee. Whether because the blind are persons who are at risk of human rights, national minorities are not. But unlike 1998, when they got support from both the opposition and the authorities and the rulings this time, that's not the case. Why? Is the government maybe blind, maybe she doesn't see that it should finally be done? In response to the draft law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is largely hiding behind conventions, signed strategies, and nowhere does it show where this man is, where this person is weak in sight and blind. You can see from the government's answer the desire to solve the problem, but it's said, we'll sort it out later, it seems to me that the problem of social care is being pushed under the carpet, for the reason that social care is not in the public interest at the moment, i.e. a system that in itself clearly needs certain changes in which none of them wants to be touched, it doesn't want to be touched. You can also see from the government's reply one particular concern that you do not disrupt value in the compensation system, and is that just? It appears to be, but something else is being read. The obstruction on this bill unfortunately comes from some other sources which are obviously concerned about their position. Instead of supporting this law with the aim of resolving problems in the social care compensation system and making a proposal to improve the status of persons with disabilities by a single roof law, this being the beginning of the law itself, it was voted upon to oblige the Government to make a full proposal to improve the status of persons with disabilities. To that question, Madam Secretary of State is here, so she'll confirm to me, she answered at the committee's session that it couldn't be expected before 2010, now she made a little reference, so she said let's do it in 2009, believe it won't even be 2010. Today's insensitivity to those who have no equal chances in life is extremely high and we read it from the whole relationship to this law. Because the whole welfare system is the most, believe in taking care of yourself and only then taking care of others. There is a whole series of situations where bureaucratic issues sometimes make it difficult for parents to reach their rights. In general, there is the view that the disabled have too many rights under the law, that their rights are pinched wherever possible, so there will be more resources for some other needs. Generally, the situation in this area when we talk about social care is close to a disaster and without the comprehensive changes in the system that the secretary said should follow very soon, there will be no significant shifts. The government's reply states that everything will be settled through the adoption of the Social Care Act. And as far as we know, this law is still somewhere in the health ministry drawers, and if it is to be passed by the end of 2008 it should have been in public debate, and I'm afraid it will be a draft of the law, because we'll probably bring it in December 2008 and we won't have time to read it quickly, let alone conduct a public debate. And that for the end, so bring that proposal and finally bring that classification of physical damage, so it's not the Holy Scriptures, it's not something Europe doesn't have, the whole of Europe has it, everyone has it. Well, there's no reason not to bring it. Clearly, some others are, for some others will lose some of their rights and will not be able to buy some social peace in a way that benefits from that system. We are likely to be forced to do so by Europe, because it has the only possible solution, the only possible and powerful weapon that would fix the situation in the social system. And as for the blind and the impaired, it is obvious that this law will not get the majority and that the Croatian Union of the Blind will seek the assistance of the European Union of the blind who has its representative on the European Union's commission. I advise you, I welcome you up at the gallery and I advise you to do so, because obviously Croatia will not pass such a law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19685	Thank you very much. After this debate, we have two corrections to the incorrect allegations. The first is the distinguished representative Ljubica Lukčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19686	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here's a series of incorrect allegations stated by fellow Mrsic, and I'll fix one. A colleague said the SDP has heard about this problem, and that it showed it through resolution in local communities. Well, you know very well, Mrsić, that is incorrect, that your colleagues are also in power in local communities, and when they help people with disabilities, they prefer not one group, but they solve all people with disabilities wherever possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19687	Thank you very much. And a second correction to an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative of Andri Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19688	Thank you very much. It's wrong of you to say that a blind person only gets 38 euros. This is based on the Social Care Act, but also on 7 other laws and sublegal acts, they get blind persons, and that is what we don't have at all records, let alone property records, according to different sources of giving. That's what the government is doing now and what we want to even up so it's fair. Secondly, he says that accepting this proposal would not deprive other categories of people with disabilities. We received on the Health Committee from 5 associations of other disabled persons a request to reject this because they believe that they would be denied because they are not included in this law. And that's why we need to tell the truth, the government wants to solve, but for all categories of people with disabilities equally and justly.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19689	Thank you very much. And the last registered club is the HDSSB club. On behalf of the club, the debate of the distinguished representative Bora Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19690	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. You don't need to close your eyes to this problem, and the problem is chronologically dragging in here, as someone said here since '98. For years, and then for years. Some chronology of these events that have been brought here several times in this debate is actually some kind of chronology of guessing. The first is specifically in figures of 100 million kuna, and when we see that the state budget of the Republic of Croatia is around 120 billion kuna, it is an item of 0.88%. It's clear that the government is counting on me to say every kuna, especially millions of kunas. However, in the context of the government and comparing other countries, especially those around us, we can see that the supplement on blindness in other countries than Bosnia and Herzegovina, Albania, Serbia, Slovenia, and not to mention the Western ones, to tell European countries, the countries of the European Union are much larger than we are. I'd say that's the reason, first of all, that there's no money for these things, because of the abundance and wastefulness of a massive state apparatus and administration, despite the fact that we have VAT 22.5%, and only 18% in Bosnia. Half the budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina is lower than the Republic of Croatia, and yet the supplement for blindness is more, very interesting. Each government clearly avoids spending, but every government promises, and the Union of the Blind has been promised for 10 years. It's much easier to believe than to doubt. It is easy to believe the promises made in the election campaigns, much easier to believe than to doubt, because doubt somehow kills hope. And it's in the philosophy of a man in his consciousness that people, clearly before the election, prefer to believe, rather than question what they're told will be. Because doubt is much harder. When we look subjectively really here someone's talking about the world of darkness, about how they can't see the green color, they can't see any color of our disabled, weak-sighted and blind. They can't see their children, their grandchildren, but I think there's a slightly wrong approach when we evaluate it. Namely, this is not about the addition to subjective feeling, this is not about the extra for mental pain that the blind have clearly, this is about the extra that is needed for what is written on the page, it is not about the marked page, but here I am the Alliance of blind Croatian, the Croatian Union of Blind, wrote here, that the addition to blindness as a legal institute finds an excuse or a foothold in the inequality of blind persons compared to those who see it. Therefore, this blindness supplement is needed because of the inability to go to a doctor or to buy with the necessary escort, administrative assistance and assistance in correspondence, more frequent use of telephone services, because of the inability to move or write, more frequent use of taxi services, help with guide dogs, subscription for specialized magazines for Brille's letter, help with childcare, purchase of equipment and services necessary for the daily needs of a blind person, the purchase of expensive psycho-technical aids, IT equipment, special computers, scanner, printer, mobile phone, someone is talking about mobiles, necessary help in the household. So these are the things that are objective that can be said to be needed by blind people. And that's what he's asking for and asking for that extra. Of course, I feel for the mental pain that blind people feel and these are the objective things that they're asked for, which is why this proposal for a law on extravagantity is being put in place. This was also about the differences in the way blindness occurs, so I believe here that the difference between the blind and the disabled of the Homeland War and those who are on social care is seven times higher. I must stress here that disabled people of the Homeland War for blindness or compensation is not exclusively a matter of organic damage and disability itself, but these people have lost their sight, but they may never have lost it if they hadn't gone voluntarily to the Homeland War. It's a certain fee just to say for patriotism, for what they left the most valuable thing actually in the Homeland War. So let's not look at this thing that way, but in any case, I support the promoter to add the blindness allowance to some kind of something to say a decent amount, and here I see the aproximatively calculated that it's somewhere 2 thousand 160 kuna. How did this calculation of 2 thousand 160 kuna get? Exactly mathematically, while a certain relativization is taken as precisely as it says in the material, because of the different definities, proneness and living conditions, and this figure can be reduced by 20%. So that's one to say subjective percentage. There's no standard to say why 20%, why not 30%, why not 10%. So it's taken an indicative of about 20% as an aproximative procedure so it could be 20, it could be 10, it could be 15. I say, you can take 20%. The government's response here also on the benches that suggests the Croatian Parliament not to accept this proposal for a law on blindness allowance, I say, is also not sufficiently reasoned. Of course we all want to finally settle the social welfare situation and the disabled. I also have to point out here the problem of disabled workers who, by government decisions, are also with their modest disability, there are 30,000 of them, they've been given social care and they've been kicked out of pension funds. They also fall under social care laws although they have gained their disability at work at the time of their work. There is also dissatisfaction with them and we see that in this table which I would say is somewhat unnecessary and inappropriate, it is a parallel table of the number of persons and supplements per person that the disabled work of the undersighted and blind has 3 thousand 193 and their supplement is 896 kuna per person. There is also a visible difference between these first two categories and these are the disabled of the Homeland War and the civilian victims of the war. But again, for the purpose and respect and dignity of the Homeland War, that the loss of sight in the Homeland War almost all followed, therefore not willingly, not by disease but simply by the action of the aggressor, by the action of the enemy and all that it is, we will not repeat all those situations where blindness or loss of vision or lack of sight by acting to say weapons in the Homeland War. When we look at these data and these amounts, then I must again point out that when the sums are summed up that are mentioned under this bill, and that is 98 million kuna and about 3 million kuna for the blind or deaf, I do not know exactly what it is, then I say about 100 million kuna, which I repeat in the Republic of Croatia budget is 0.08% when I take the budget for this year. What's a year's budget heights we don't know, I guess we'll know soon enough. So when we want to park a car somewhere in the city and the place is marked for disabled people, we often see the inscription, "If you want my place, take my disability too.". I am convinced that none of us would be willing in this sense in which we are discussing today, the subject we are discussing today would not want to be this black metaphorically, but I must say that blindness is really one of the most difficult disability and subjective in those who are weak and blind really requires just a number of measures that help them in their lives and work, and that all costs. When we look at these fees in other countries, then we really have to ask ourselves, and I have cited arguments about the level of VAT, about the level of the budget, about the balance sheet results, that is, the comparison between Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, so both Croatia and Serbia, Croatia and Slovenia, Slovenia that has just the compensation for an additional 300 euros, exactly as much as in the bill of this law, so equalising with the amount of surcharge in the Republic of Slovenia. The HDSSB Club considers this law justified, the proposal for a blinding allowance law and will support the law. It'll be for the bill. I believe that the government's arguments do not fully stand, not only in part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19691	Thank you very much. One is a registered correction of an incorrect assumption. Dear representative Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19692	Well, here's just one correction. In fact, the colleague said that the government's response, or the government's opinion, was not sufficiently reasoned. In fact, the government's opinion makes it clear how the government wants and how it will systematically solve all persons with disabilities, not just one category. Both the blind and the deaf will be covered by this system solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19693	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, a respected representative, Vesna Škulić, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19694	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, I again have a need to report for the word, since it seems to me that some of you are either deliberately going on the wrong track or willfully do not want to hear what it says or what's true. The fact is, I'm going to repeat the chronology of events. In 2004, the Croatian Association of Blinds proposed a Law on Supplement to Blindness. But then, together with other civil society associations, persons with disabilities agreed to make a single Law on Compensation for Severe Blindness. The Committee of the Government of the Republic of Croatia established a working group, and otherwise the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Vice-President of the Government of Mrs Jadranka Kosor, therefore considers this body to be serious and has created a serious working group that needs to create a table which is the most difficult disability in the Republic of Croatia. However, since the working group had not met once or once before, so from 2004 to 2006 or '07. There was absolutely nothing done about it. The Croatian association of the blind is on the move that if other groups of people with disabilities, or their representatives, will not solve their problems because then they have taken action to move first or to roll that mass. And how did they roll that mass? They have collected a petition of 40,000 signatures from the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. That's what they told the Prime Minister. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister hasn't received them yet. Last year they founded on White Stick Day and a peaceful protest at the Flower Square in Zagreb. You didn't hear them then either. This year, when the law came to the agenda, they solidarityd in a certain way with the government, believing that the government would nevertheless draw some conclusion that this law would be put into another reading. Unfortunately, I guess it won't be anything. I also think that these stories about the government doing this or that are very hard to believe if it was clear in the national strategy from 2003 to 2006, so one clear measure, a clear deadline. When the government was due to begin in 2004 to equalise the rights of all persons with disabilities regardless of the location, manner and time of disability. So how, then, do you believe that something will change in 2008 or 2009? So it's not something that's been invented now. A new national strategy has also been developed, however another binding document, which is the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Unfortunately, since the first national strategy has not produced clear results, the new one has been delayed, so nothing has been done on this issue in this area. It is also not clear to me, therefore, either as a person who speaks as a representative, who speaks on behalf of the promoter, or as a person at all how that we went from house to house and counted the disabled would finally add up in these four years how difficult we are. If according to the 2001 list of the Republic of Croatia, around 7201 people, blind in Croatia, about 5,000, 12488 are permanently immobilised. So we have a table where we can read out of that table who are the hard people and who aren't. After all, we can see from a visual perception who is a difficult person with disabilities or not. If you think I drink this water with straw because I'm so, so I want to drink, it's not true, it's because I can't lift a bottle. And I think we can also figure out who's being severely disabled based on a visual impression or not. So I think it's totally moving in the wrong direction, that in some way it wants to be covered that the blind want to solve the problem for themselves, that's not true. So the blind first launched an initiative for everyone. The moment no one listened to them or respected them as partners, they went on their own. Also, the Croatian association of the blind and now does not give up on making one single law for everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19695	Thank you very much. At 15.33 p.m., it was time to report a debate, an individual debate of 10 minutes. And now we're going to continue with one reported correction of an incorrect allegation. Honorable representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19696	Your Honor, Vice President. Representative Škulić is confusing me a little, and that is why I think it is not the correct quote. So in 2001, this House had a proposal for a law on a blinding allowance that it refused. And that's when the government was in charge, the then government of 2001, of having to bring in, of providing an extra to the more severe disability of the people with the most severe damage. This was not fulfilled by the government at the time, it did, and that is why today we are discussing the Law on Adjudication to Blindness. If the government had done so then, if the then government had done so, or if the Parliament had passed that law, we would have nothing to discuss today.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19697	Thank you very much. Government representative, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Care, Mrs. Dorica Nikolic asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19698	Well, I think I've heard of previous club positions. I'd like to highlight what some clubs have mentioned, I think the HDSSB is among the last objects that have been standing here on the benches since 1998. So, from 1998 to today, it's the 10th year and no one trusts anyone anymore. I also said on the board that I would not talk about what happened, because the Croats always start talking about 100 large Tomislav ships and 80 small ones where they are today, and then they end up as they end up. So, I'll repeat the following. No one says this isn't justified, no one says the government won't do it and we told exactly when we're going to do it and everything we've said so far when we're going to do it we've stuck to it. We said that through the social compensation reform strategy we will establish all the social benefits that exist in the Republic of Croatia and that we will bring strategy and we have brought strategy. We also said that in the framework of this strategy, for the first time, remember the first time we will mention the severe disability, which until then has not been mentioned in any law. For the first time in the Republic of Croatia there was a catalogue of all possible rights, all rights, by all laws, by all institutions and by exactly 98 until the moment we worked them. And behind that, we have some more acquired rights, so now we have over 100. No one said that we would not solve this problem and we clearly pointed out in the strategy when we would solve it and we clearly said that we would solve it under the Social Care Act as a roof law for all persons with disabilities. So, we haven't broken any of the deadlines we promised so far. So we kept everything we promised. So we're trying to solve severe disability on the roof. As for numbers and working groups we know exactly, and we said where the problem is, we have five places of art, we have unequal criteria that turned out to be these differences that you mentioned earlier. And the other thing that we have now in the existing rights by different grounds we already have expressed, therefore, diversity and this discrimination. Therefore, we want to do this now that discrimination is no longer available, if you think discrimination is resolved in this way, so now we're going to discriminate a little bit and it's going to be bigger, we consider it the other way around because we have committed ourselves to the strategy of reforming social benefits. So we brought the Strategy, we said we'd work it out, we said when we'd solve it. And as for this second classification, how many numbers there are, which is a number, so clearly he knows by this classification that we now have. We have just over 35,000 people with disabilities who could be counted as a serious disability. However, if we do so, then some categories that are not here at the beginning will be left out, which are not included. And that's why I'm saying, the working group that's near the end and that's doing the classification here so it doesn't happen again now for the 35,000 we have, and we already know that by all the Europeans' classifications, there's not a little bit of a disability in there, so at this point, that number wouldn't be true either. Therefore, allow us, since so far we have not, at least as far as the Ministry of Health and Social Care has been concerned, which has been tasked with uniting all ministries in the creation of a social compensation reform strategy, have violated any date. We hope and believe that we will not break any other date that we have set here. If we break it, then criticize us, until then be patient.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19699	Thank you very much. Now we'll move on to individual debates. We have 13 individual debates reported. The first of them is the distinguished representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19700	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. If the government happens to exceed a certain deadline, as the secretary of state says, we will criticise it but those with severe disability will have nothing to do with it. Well, I guess that's the government's argument, too, so I'd start right from him. The government has made an effort to explain why it does not accept this bill in Parliament and has given its reasons for a full three-page text. But what's on those three pages of text? Conventions, strategies, should be equality, so no one should be in a privileged position, as if they could be in a privileged position, so there is nothing but human beings and there is no solution to the problem. At the end of this opinion, it is said that the government, within the framework of the Strategy adopted on 12 April 2007, will, therefore, almost a year and a half ago on this basis draft a roof law on social care, that the deadline for the fourth quarter of 2008 is in that fourth quarter. The secretary of state didn't say at what stage the law was made. We have 5 to 6 weeks, i.e. 15 to 18 days, until the end of the constitutional session of Parliament. In that time, we will bring the state budget, if we do not have the law in the state budget, no funds will be provided and in 2009 as usual someone from the government will tell us, so the Croatian Parliament has not provided the funds in the state budget and that will be the result, that is, in 2009 the solution to this problem. And what is the purpose of this law? I would bring it down to one or two sentences, it's in a financial sense to ease the position of people with my own court-by-law's most difficult disability. Because what does it mean to live in darkness? It means that every exit from your own home is full of dangers for a person who goes on such an adventure alone. I've been told by some of these people that when you see a person with a white stick on the street, that they're scouts, that most people don't dare come out of their houses without an escort. It has already been said here what their additional financial needs are. Help in the house. I know people who live alone. Which means for them every coming someone to help them with those simplest housework. They also need some help, so it has already been said, they can't use a regular phone or a mobile phone. They can't use a regular watch. They cannot use a normal personal computer that we who do not have this problem can use. And that's more expensive because it's been done under special conditions than it is for us people who don't have that problem. And the question is, for such persons, how are some countries in our environment that are economically, economically far worse than Croatia can provide two and a half, three, four times more financial resources than Croatia can. There is a will, there is a political will to help those most needed in the context of the resources available through a different distribution. In social terms, the state should help the weakest. So those who are currently jobless or unable to work. Those who need such assistance are then a social state, and Croatia, according to its constitutional definition, is a social state. It's said here we should all be in an equal position but we can see it's not. That it's not a situation. In this category of people with disabilities, we have a situation that goes from 200, 200 kuna to 3 thousand 100 kuna. No one says someone needs to cut those funds. They should all strive to get to what's most today. Not just blind and weak, blind and deaf persons, because this law applies to them. And when a colleague Mrsic says blind people don't have their favorite movie, but they have their favorite song deaf people don't have either the favorite movie or the most beautiful song because they can't see or hear. And I think it's the most difficult form of disability. And how do you secure 102 million kunas in the 2009 budget when it is likely to amount to around 130 billion kuna? How do you say we can't provide 102 million kuna for this category of our fellow citizens when we're a few months ago, a few months ago, in the budget rebalancing of just the surplus of VAT that we didn't plan to make, we'll be arriving by the end of the year about 100, a billion and 300 million kuna. It's really hard to explain to these people. I'd like to say they're very brave people. That they gather together in associations as self-help and socialization. You'd be surprised what they do. My contacts with one such association in Međimurje County in the last two years have actually motivated me to argue in different ways to make things easier for them, as an association for them, and then through that association and for them as individuals. This association numbers 208 members, but completely blind. The government's refusal to accept such an initiative and the law, at least in their first reading, was seen as a daunting fact. They say that better co-operation in the local environment is especially at the level of the town of Čakovec and Međimurje County that helps them financially and which, through this kind of help, co-finance two projects for them of invaluable importance. One is an information course for the blind with information-speaking applications. This is especially important for young people. I know girls who are in regular schooling, so in classes with kids who don't have these problems ended both primary and secondary schools and colleges. Another problem is the education of parents of such blind children. So if those people who engage with their own handicap and trying to find a normal life for themselves and others are really brave people and I want to highlight here the great engagement of the president and association of Mrs. Maria Ciglar from Čakovec. And I'll say, at the end of the day, the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of the Family received representatives of this association on the occasion of White Stick Day. You know what hit me the most? In addition to some controversial programmes that take place, she said that the great contribution of the Croatian authorities to the documents was that the National Strategy was printed on the letter and the reminders of the ministers in the same letter. This is far too small for this category of inhabitants, especially from a person who would have to be their help. So it seems to me, in the end, that it's the state that stayed blind to these problems and those who don't actually see what the problem is.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19701	Thank you very much. Now the number of 13 debates reported, we will reduce by one because MP Zvonimir Mršić is not here. Then we move on. The next one is Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19702	Dear gentlemen, distinguished representatives of the Croatian Parliament. I refer this somewhat pathetic poetic sentence to all who have a conscience above politics or party discipline because with the vote for our bill, you will be on the side of arguments and unseen perseverance. And with the vote against you, you will leave at the act of a state of discrimination and chaos that is in complete contrast to the UN Convention which you have recently ratified and adopted in this very place. Yeah. I remind you gentlemen that by supporting the categorization of disability by cause, and not by consequence, by supporting a law that compensates the different percentages of disability with the same supplement, supporting a situation in which even the same category of persons with disabilities gets different amounts in the range of all between 1 and 15, you are violating the United Nations Convention. The proposal for an addendum law on blindness is a chance to begin with the elimination of the injustices that already exist. The chance to prove to the world that our young democracy is devoured by humanity and social sensitivity. It is an opportunity for each disability category to be resolved taxively and transparently, not in a package that would be used by persons with a very low degree or almost no disability. So far, concern for people with disabilities has brought Croatia down to the last place in Europe, and it is also an amount of 38 euros, or in a better case than 54 euros, a symbol of ridicule and ridicule at international gatherings. This is the state I dare say is becoming a national disgrace. It's like I feel a laugh on your faces while you're listening to these words, like I'm reading a surprise in your eyes, because there's a blind man out there who dares to write to the Croatian Parliament because he wants to enter a small door in the High House he's not worthy of. Know that neither I am blind nor only one I am, but 6000 of us are enlightened and dissident citizens. And we've been appealing and praying, knocking on every door for 10 years. But so far, 3650 days have gone to the wind because the tops don't want to hear us, and the others are putting us off as an elemental disaster, that the MPs. We feel rejected and abandoned, and we have a whole series of reasons and evidence that shows and your neglect of us marginal, vulnerable and voting obviously irrelevant groups. Because how to explain the fact that in most working groups that should solve the problems of people with disabilities are those that have no disability. How to explain the fact that after some of our actions projects and programmes are getting worse, how to explain that despite the increase in the funds for the regular work of national alliances of persons with disabilities, the Croatian Association of Blinds amounted to 29%. How do you end up explaining... The blind candidates who applied for an invitation to tender for the Deputy Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities have been exposed to pointless issues in which some persons who lead the movement of persons with disabilities and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] and slandered people from the Croatian Alliance of the Blind. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yes, gentlemen, all this is happening around us and you. We know gentlemen we're not obedient, we're not for pointless photos at the ceremony, we're not for hypocritical investment of a series of polkin villages that give a fake picture in ideal care for people with disabilities. If you think we're a population that will withdraw after your possible reluctance decision, then you're wrong. The blind Republic of Croatia will continue to use all and the most drastic democratic means to melt the ice in the hearts and clear the nightmare... Blindness or some other disability isn't exclusive just for us to deal with. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It can happen to anyone who doesn't want it today or who isn't ready to think. But a worthy life has the right and the right to do so as those to whom it has already happened. On behalf of the blind Republic of Croatia, I wish you a lot of health and all the good. Dear colleagues and colleagues, these words were directed to us by the President of the Croatian Alliance of the Blind Vojin Peric. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19703	Thank you, Mr. Representative. Next reported is Honorable Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19704	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. When this legislative proposal was referred to the procedure, which was in May, I was absolutely convinced that he would not need to be discussed and that he would not need to be defended because he said so defending himself. I was absolutely convinced that he would be accepted and unanimously. And then there was a shock, and there was an infidelity. Namely, who might even consider that there is one person in this country who believes that blind people do not need more financial assistance especially in some categories than they do now. You'd really think it was impossible. But I say there's been a shock, there's an infidelity because the government's opinion has come and it's the government who thinks this law is unnecessary. I couldn't believe it. Every October 15th, on the day of the white stick, we watch the Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, taking pictures with the blind, smiling, promising. It's her permanent programme for October 15th, and then when the bill comes that should help those same blind people then the government and the Deputy Prime Minister says, "E can't, can't." And what are the arguments? Says the government won't help some because we want to help everyone. Very interesting. It's like a hungry person comes in, a man dies of hunger, you have food and she asks you to give him that food so he doesn't starve, and you say no, so do you know how many people are hungry? If we can't give all those hungry people away from you, starve to death. That's logic. It's a pathetic and nakaradian logic. The government says they're preparing some laws. Well, let him prepare who forbids her to prepare the laws. But accept this law until you make it better. Help these people now if you can help them, so make better laws. No one's stopping you from doing that. If they're any better than this, we'll all unanimously accept them, blind people first of all. The government says Dr. Hebrang wants to take care of it. But that's where she doesn't have the classification. Then we hear from the secretary of state that the classification actually has, so it's not good, so the task force is doing something, so it repairs that classification. So what did you do for five years? What did you do for five years if you hadn't done that classification? Says MP Kunst and she government in 2001 have not passed the laws. So what kind of argument is that? Well, because the government didn't pass that law, now it never has to be passed again. And you should never help blind people again. So what are those arguments? You say you want to avoid discrimination. It is immoral and incomprehensible to claim that discrimination is to be avoided. When some blind people in Croatia have this supplement on the blindness of 280 kuna and others from 3824 kuna. Well, if it's not discrimination, I don't know what discrimination is. He doesn't see one, he doesn't see the other. They don't see it the same way. There's no money in the world that can replace vision. This is no fee or compensation for losing sight. It's the money these people need to live normally. So he can buy an hour to know what time it is, so he can buy a phone so he can call someone when he needs it, that's the money for it. If you have that fee of 280 kuna, you can't buy a watch. You can't buy a phone. You can't pay for someone else's help because you can't, because you don't have any money. The government has adopted a strategy, but this strategy will not help a blind person buy a watch unless you accept this law. It's good to have a strategy, so it's okay, so nobody's bothering you for bringing a strategy, but these people won't benefit from it if you really don't want to help them, and this bill requires real help, concrete help. You're saying you're trying to avoid some groups of disabled being privileged. Please, nice. So what privilege is it to be a blind person? So what is this privilege, and what is this language that is used when it comes to this subject? The comparison with other countries is embarrassing. Shame on Croatia. We can be ashamed. Albania stands out more for the blind. And that's not enough argument for you to accept this bill. The promise that the government will solve it with a new law is pure cynicism, especially in these deadlines that it says here. It's the fourth quarter, the last quarter of this year, we're here to pass the law, the budget follows us. If 102 million kunas are not foreseen, that means you won't last another year. Well, then tell those people. Here they are upstairs at the gallery. Say we won't because we won't. We want to take a picture with you on October 15th, we want to smile at the cameras, but you won't help. Don't promise to do it in 2009 because it can't go into the budget. So that kind of promise is pure cynicism. It's another mockery to a blind person. Not only are you not going to help her, but you're still giving her a false promise that you know you won't keep because you won't be able to keep it because there's no law. And now that you have a chance to pass the law, you won't accept it. So it's terrible actually to talk about this topic. It's a terrible thing to talk about in this House at all in this way, instead of taking care of this bill that doesn't come from any political party, so that we can say it's politics. It comes from a parliamentary committee with representatives of all parties. And it's a shame that today, in front of these people at the gallery, we have to listen to the reasons and twists of the government and the parliamentary majority why this law will not be adopted. I fear that on Friday or tomorrow when we vote and the parliamentary majority rejects this bill will be one of the most embarrassing days in the history of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19705	Thank you very much. Two reported corrections of an incorrect quote and one replica. First of all, the esteemed representative Ljubica Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19706	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Stazic said the government said it didn't want to help people because it wants to help everyone. Mr. Trailer, an incorrect quote and, above all, cynical. Neither did the government say that, nor did it say to those you think the government wants, and that is all of them, the government does not want to help anyone because people with disabilities do not need help, but a well-organized system in which they will exercise their rights, but also have obligations.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19707	Thank you very much. And the second is the correction of an incorrect quote by agent Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19708	Honorable Vice President, Representative Stazic incorrectly said in this cynical heart of his debate that he wanted to buy a watch from a blind person's extra for blindness. I am pleased that finally the representative Stazic had seen it because I would have preferred that in 2001 he had such a debate when he was in a position to influence MPs to pass the law, and not today, in principle, he saw that blind people would need an allowance for blindness.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19709	Thank you very much, even though it wasn't a correction to that quote with the clock. Thank you very much. The replica is from the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19710	You said when you read the government's statement that you had a shock. I haven't had a shock because it's about continuing my relationship. I'll remind you, but also other colleagues and colleagues in the last term, there have been two years of discussing the Law on textbooks. Then I submitted the amendment and asked the secretary of state why there was no textbook in the Bookbook on Braille’s letter to the blind children of elementary and high school. I was told they'd get it. I asked who would print those textbooks on Braille's letter to the blind kids. Now I'm asking, maybe Madam Secretary of State knows if for this school year, children in primary and secondary schools and students have been given the opportunity to have textbooks on Braille's letter, free of charge, like other children? And secondly, there were cell phones and computers, personal computers. I suggested and asked again, is it still worth the regulation that blind people have the right every seven years, it seems to me, on the typewriter on Braille's letter? Why not a personal computer with a voice unit, a scanner and a Braille printer? Because it costs over $60,000, so we don't want to let those blind have it. The fact that five such students in Međimurje received such sets of computers and the Association of the Blind in 2000/2001. in Čakovec, that we could run a course of descripting and providing services and even to children to scan their textbooks and convert to Brailleovic is not the result of the system, concern and concern of the authorities, but of donors and good people who gave money to buy it. I don't know if a catalogue of all rights has been created, not just vulnerable groups of people with disabilities, because we usually do catalogues and the rights of the most vulnerable groups, so we wave with them what we give them. But Madam Secretary of State, if you finish that catalog, half these blind will die. They need help now. So you keep supplementing it... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19711	Thank you. It's time for the replica. Thank you very much. Replica reply, distinguished representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19712	Well, I thank you first for replicating me, and you didn't act like a colleague of Kunst who simply doesn't have the guts because he doesn't want to throw the risk of me answering his line, and then he's going to make it up to God to correct a quote that neither quoted nor corrected anything. He actually wanted to replicate, and that's why he didn't have the guts to lift a yellow tile. You're more honest and responsible than your colleagues, Kunst, but that's not surprising, that's what I expected. You're talking about concrete help, that's what this is all about. Disabled persons are entitled to the same chance as all members of this society. It's up to us to make that happen. Says a colleague, it's not help, it's help, it's help. Give him a hand, help him get even with his rights and abilities. You can't get through some catalogs, you can't get away with not bringing in any kind of strategy and counting on us helping these people. We didn't. Help, solidarity with them must be concrete. This opportunity for solidarity the government has today, the parliamentary majority has today and today will show whether they are solid with these people or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19713	Thank you very much. Now the next individual debate is the distinguished representative Vedran Rožić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19714	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I feel like the others in this assembly that the amount of compensation for other people's assistance and care is small and is not enough to meet all the needs of the blind. However, also by passing this special law that would regulate the rights of blind and deaf persons, all other persons with disabilities would also be discriminated against. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia should take into account the improvement in the quality of life for the most vulnerable groups of people with disabilities, better quality approach, social benefits and equalisation when developing the Social Care Act as well as the reform of social benefits. The deadline for drawing up the text of the new law, as we have heard, is foreseen for the fourth quarter of 2008, and representatives of the Association of Persons with Disabilities whose proposals and opinions will be important for better understanding of the problems and needs of those persons. I would therefore conclude that it is therefore necessary to support the Government of the Republic of Croatia's efforts to address the rights of all categories of persons with disabilities, as we have heard today on several occasions from the State Secretary that this law will soon be and I believe that and then this proposal will be included in that law and that all persons with disabilities will then be satisfied. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19715	Thank you very much. Mr. Jurjevic's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19716	Thank you. Here's what I find really strange is this logic which, among other things, Rosic made, that the adoption of this law discriminates against all other persons with disabilities. Just because you help one group doesn't mean that you've discriminated against others, it means just something, and you've heard about their needs that are specific, and no one's defending the government as they promise to do, to pass a law that will help me, I don't think that term at all is inappropriate, and all the other disabled people in a way that we allow them to live normally when they're already affected by that kind of handicap to belong to the disabled in one way or another. So that logic is just a little weird to me, and I'm not going to help you because there are others who need help, so when we do, we're going to, and it's really about a specific form of disability that I don't think either of us suspects is really specific, difficult and special.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19717	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Rosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19718	Well, here's a colleague of Jurjevic's, just a few words. I don't think we should definitely politicise on these issues when it comes to people with the most difficult disabilities. As we have heard today in the debate on several occasions, the State Secretary mentioned that at the end of the year this law will be passed, and I think that this debate today will also contribute to the fact that this government that has so far shown a strong social sensitivity to all the social groups that need this care, that today's debate will also contribute to the fact that this will happen in this last quarter of this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19719	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19720	Dear President, State Secretary and fellow MPs. Well, surely when we talk about people with disabilities regardless of the type of disability, it is impossible to unsensitify themselves with these people's problems, so it is extremely delicate to talk about their but in an indirect way and our problems. That's why I'm trying to understand this legislator of this law, but I believe I'll be objective in my court. The adoption of a similar law was initiated by the public for the sake of the truth, since it was mentioned very little in 1999, and in 2001 the Parliament discussed the then Law on Supplement to Blindity and did not accept it. That's why I think it's extremely cynical of the colleagues of individuals who, with heartwarming themes to like and this category of disabled people and the public, are talking about the need of this law, because then when they were able, they had a majority in this House, they didn't want to do it. And now they realize they finally see it, so it's obvious that SDP is more socially sensitive, more humane in opposition than when it's in principle in power. It's obviously a fact that comes out of this. But even then when it was that debate, you first in the Parliament then concluded, and it was rejected just to remind why it was rejected because it was trying to impute here, the law was rejected, because it was said to equalise the conditions for all categories of people with disabilities. That's what the ball is now throwing at this side, that's when the Parliament that had then the majority representatives of the SDP, the majority number then concluded. But then he also committed to the government, meaning the 2001 government to propose an appropriate legal solution that would ensure an extra to the severe disability of people with the most severe damage. And they obviously didn't recognize exactly this kind of disability at the time, meaning blindness as severe damage or the most severe damage. And normally, the government didn't do anything about it then, and normally, so today again in 2008, we're discussing these problems. Otherwise, if they were as socially sensitive as they are today, after these five years in opposition, then we wouldn't have anything to talk about today, it would already be a done deal, a solved problem. However, in accordance with the national strategy of 2007-2015, all forms of action should be coordinated in the field of protection of persons with disabilities. Respecting the difficulties faced by these individuals and their families in everyday life, there must therefore be no discrimination on the basis of disability against any person with disabilities. It is certain that hyperproduction of special laws in this area will not solve the problem, nor the problems encountered by people with disabilities. I therefore believe it is necessary to support the Government of the Republic of Croatia's efforts to address the rights and fair settlement of the needs of all persons and of all categories of persons with disabilities by the end of this year. Furthermore, I must also say what has not been done in 2001. persons with disabilities today have the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities and recently appointed by this Assembly and I believe that they will care for the protection and promotion of the rights and interests of all persons with disabilities, as well as contribute to the construction of a complete system of protection of persons with disabilities. And that's in the active role of making this new Social Care Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19721	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first is Mrs. Dear Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19722	Thank you... It's already been established that we have HDZ all the time, and why didn't you do something? [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Well, it's been five years since then, as was the coalition government in which the SDP has been participating. And if one government didn't do anything, it doesn't mean that there's nothing to be done by the governments behind it. However, when you speak of the conclusion reached by the Parliament, you did not say that for the first time in 2003 a national strategy was adopted defining that in 2004, all persons with disabilities were equally admitted in 2004. Why didn't the government do it in 2004? Well, I guess governments are in some sort of continuity regardless of the political option they represent. But we need to see what economic situation Croatia was in 2001 compared to 2008 so it is not the same. So I could now talk about the debts that were recovered, about the negative rate of growth that was found, about the budget that was half smaller than it was in 2008, but it's no use for my colleague Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19723	Thank you. Answer Mr. Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19724	Thank you very much. In any case, I am pleased to hear from the distinguished representative, who I think was here in 2001, when this proposal of the Law on Supplement to Blindness was discussed. Well, clearly, I just want to tell you, don't be cynical. Admit it, tell me, is we were wrong, but we didn't do it then. We can discuss whether it's necessary or not. Well, that's not questionable, surely it should, but the thing is, admit that you're wrong. Admit your sin. And don't try to move him to the other side now. And it's not just a question about these people with disabilities, I'm talking about blind people, it's all about that. And as far as the economic situation is concerned, it is no excuse for the economic situation when you speak with so much social sensitivity about this need that it is so much a reason that you could not for this reason bring this supplement to persons with disabilities particularly blind. Well, that's stories for little kids. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19725	Replica, Mr. Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19726	You will notice my colleague Kunst reporting to you in a replica, not by correcting a false quote like you did to me. You're saying now, you admit that she's the government that made a mistake, and that's what makes you very illogical. If you think she was wrong, then why are you doing the same thing now, if you think it was a mistake. Then you are wrong and yet knowingly wrong by claiming that it was a mistake, knowingly and deliberately you are wrong. And be careful, someone may have made a mistake, too, but you're making a mistake on purpose and you admit it. Secondly, if the Government of Ivica Racan had solved all the problems in society and then this one should not have any more choices, not the Government, not the Parliament, because we would have lived in an ideal society where all the problems were solved. Of course life isn't like that and of course it's up to this government to sort things out. The only problem is that she hasn't dealt with these things in five years. Third, you say you need to support this government in its efforts to solve it comprehensively. Well, we do. Who doesn't support her? So let him solve all things. Who's defending her? Who said it didn't have to be dealt with extensively? But give it up until they solve it comprehensively, they may need it by the end of the term to solve it, let them do this in paliatically to this new phenomenal law. We're gonna back him up, he's gonna be awesome. I'm convinced of that, but let's at least work it out now until the government makes this genius law and shows it here.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19727	Thank you. Answer Mr. Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19728	Thank you very much. It is a special pleasure to watch more than to listen to Mr. Stazić having a discussion because it is a dramatic performance always convenient to see. And I have to say, look, Mr. Stazic, I'm not saying and I'm not giving it up just so that the government hasn't solved it, but I'm passing it because you don't want to accept for one thing a responsibility that the government really hasn't solved. Now, you have the tendency to but if she didn't let her handle this. So you know what the position of this Parliament was then? Well, the attitude was exactly what you said and tried to impute this government now. The point was that they would not pass the law because they needed to secure an allowance, because they needed to level the conditions for all categories of people with disabilities. So you didn't want to categorize any kind of disability back then. Now you will, and here I'm just about to tell you how cynical it is, how you're not consistent. Be consistent so tell her we confessed then, don't make mistakes if we made that mistake. But I'm telling you right now, we've got a D.A.'s attorney for people with disabilities, there's a Social Security Act by the end of the year that's about to solve these problems, but the same thing on the trail of what your government said at the time is that people with disabilities are not being discriminated against, but that they're being equally equal, and that they're certainly taking care of what kind of disability needs more help. And that's what this Social Security Act is going to do by the end of the year. And you won't hear that.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19729	Thank you. Mrs. Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19730	Thank you very much. Mr. President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I hope they're still our guests at the Gallery, I can't see from here. So I want to welcome our blind people who, by their perseverance, creativity and willpower very often extend the limits of the possible. By sight, we receive about 90% of the information from our environment and because of this blindness is one of the most difficult forms of disability. Blind people have great difficulties in their everyday life based on their very health condition because they depend largely on companions and other people in their surroundings. In the world blindness is recognised as a difficult form of disability and thus is treated in the sense of aid provided to blind people. They seek to make daily life as much easier as possible through various initiatives and financial assistance. In Croatia, the situation is not such and the blindness of the individual becomes a problem. The fact is that blind people are much harder to find employment, but everyday life itself is a problem for them. Therefore, their human rights are further violated and discrimination is being carried out in view of the amount of allowances that blind persons receive for their disability. Not to mention five categories of disability or five categories of supplements that have already been said and the differences, fourteen times is the difference from one category to another. When it comes to a blinding supplement, it is meant to add to what blind people use to facilitate their situation in performing daily affairs rather than charity. Currently, the smallest blindness allowance in the Republic of Croatia is 280 to 400 kuna, which is embarrassingly small. This indirectly degrades the blind because this amount cannot meet the specific needs of the blind. Furthermore, more economically lagging countries such as Serbia, Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina and even Albania are giving more extras to blind people, at least 80 to 175 euros, making the Croatian situation even more absurd. In other countries of Europe, the situation is better than in Croatia, so the blind people in Croatia feel rightly discriminated against. Blindness is also quite expensive disability since most aids and appliances must be adapted to blind people. In European countries, even undersighted people make extras and the most extras are made by deaf people, which is a special category of disability. The proposal for an addendum law does not require charity for blind and deaf people but shows empathy for those persons and offers them concrete assistance for their condition. The adoption of this law would not put too much pressure on the state budget and for nearly 6 thousand blind people in the Republic of Croatia, the adoption of this law would mean a major improvement in living conditions. Blind people are members of our society and for certain reasons they lead a life different from most. This is no reason to discriminate against them and their situation requires greater sensitivity for both states and societies. I repeat, maintaining the current situation is unacceptable because fundamental human rights are being violated. Their disability requires large financial resources and since the Republic of Croatia is defined as a social state in the Constitution itself, it is committed to helping people in need of assistance. Among them are blind and deaf blind persons who need to continue their normal life to increase blinding allowances. Therefore, the addition to blindness as a legal institute finds justification in the inequality of blind people in relation to those who see it. In particular, this is evident in meeting the basic needs of life as stated in the law. Not to repeat the doctor's appointment, the purchase that is required by the escort. Then it's administrative assistance in correspondence. Then it's more common use of telephone services... And so on and so forth. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Blind people can hardly meet the existential needs or prior to the specific needs that are needed in real life. Under the provisions of the proposed law, strengthening social cohesion and solidarity of members of society would be affected. I would also remind myself that in 1960, if the United Nations had actually made a decision to mark October 15th as International White Stick Day and in 1995, Croatia declared that day, the day used to inform society and the public about its difficulties, problems, demands and other needs. Let us remember that last year on White Stick Day, as mentioned by her colleague Zgrebec Vice President Kosor, she presented documents printed on Braille's letter and National Strategy and Action Plan and the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, even... My colleagues and colleagues, regardless of all strategies, action plans, the Conventions, another International White Stick Day have welcomed the blind with embarrassingly low amounts of monthly compensation for other people's care and assistance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At the level of compensation, we have begun among the countries of the region. This money certainly cannot be paid by a person who would care for the household or follow them to a doctor. Let us not forget this occasion to talk about other problems of theirs that make everyday life difficult for them from improperly parked cars and unadjusted footsteps, approaches to public purpose buildings to bus handles and so on. Then a traffic light for the blind. But with modest receipts, the blind can't even think about buying the voice pressurers they need that stand for about two thousand kunas, then cell phones with voice control that stands for three and a half thousand kuna. This extremely vulnerable group of people who still live with us and not with us doesn't deserve underestimation. Although we are aware that we live in a world adapted to viewers, we are obliged to ease a stressful life filled with daily barriers that blind people face with our activity and to contribute to their but also our better quality life. Because as one blind citizen said, it's hard but expensive to be blind. That's exactly why I'm going to support this law anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19731	Thank you very much. We have one correction. Ms. Representative Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19732	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to correct the inaccuracies of my colleague. A colleague said Croatia has the smallest blinding allowance compared to the other countries it has listed. My colleagues in Croatia are equal to all other people with disabilities and do not receive an allowance to blindness, such as in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which you have mentioned more or less, but an allowance to other people's help and care. Let's not confuse the concepts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19733	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Ms. Vesna Škulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19734	Thank you, Mr. President. So here's because it seems to me a little bit of a debate went wrong before a few of my colleagues so they wanted to politicize the problem and the least people with disabilities need is or blind people being politicized. Here we need a firm and clear policy with a firm and clear attitude, with firm deadlines and of course law enforcement. Real laws, real laws, so not a lot of good wishes. I would also like to say Mr. Kunst was saying that representatives of the Associations of Persons with Disabilities at the Committee session were against the adoption of this law. I wonder who those people were? Were they persons with disabilities or their so-called. speakers who, on behalf of persons with disabilities, speak their views? So since we know what kind of people this is, I wouldn't want to talk about their credibility. Let's just see how many committees there are, that in committees in this House people with disabilities represent two healthy persons as external co-workers of the board. I also want to say whatever the name of this blinding allowance, other people's help and him is, whatever it was called, we need to know that it's a very, very little money that some of us spend here daily on lunches, coffees and everything else. So let's not be hypocritical and now talk about terminology and say what it's called. The fact is, it's very little money, it's not for a day to survive, let alone in a month. I'm not a pessimist, but I speak for those whose problem is resolved slowly or almost by no means. I still don't want to amnesty to any government. The fact is also that at its 33rd session in 1998, the Croatian Parliament concluded that it obliges the Government of the Republic of Croatia to systematically regulate the financing of the needs of the blind. They also cannot escape from the Government in 2001 which rejected this law, however, was brought, brought into debate and adopted in this Assembly by the National Strategy on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities when it started to equalise the rights of all persons with disabilities. Therefore, from 2003 to 2006 life, or the rights of all persons with disabilities in areas, should be arranged, arranged, or regulated. So family, business, education and so on and so forth. The fact is that it was late with the deadlines, that somewhere around 30% of that National Strategy had just been made. So let's not run away from ourselves, from our own responsibility. Let us all ask ourselves on the left and on the right as much as we as are persons, as representatives of these people, as speakers of these same people made each of us so as much as he gave himself and not for petty politics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19735	Thank you. Mr. Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19736	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. And I mean, there's been a lot of talk about this today, and it seems to me that we're getting into some kind of controversy zone, equilibristics, wisdom, we're dealing with some kind of sophism thing like whether a turtle is faster than Achilles. This is about a difficult human problem that we all understand very well and it's about a group of people who are very threatened who need to be helped. To help, try them in at least one dimension to equalize them with those who want to live with dignity. I mean, that's the point. All this other stuff is our outwitting, our guy mentioned politicizing. Well, that's worse than politicizing. Now let's discuss, colleague Kunst here now there's no talking cynicism, consistency, inconsistency. Which was five years ago, which was eight years ago. Shall we go to the Turks, to the Milky Way? How long are we going back? How much speed do we want to reverse? I mean, there are those Latin sentiments like that, act non verba. So act not to be said, as the people would say not to speak or from words to deeds. That's right. It's in the spirit of this sentiment or "Hic Rhodes Hitch Salt". So there's something to be done here. And we're part of us here dealing with wisdom or false wisdom. And there is a very specific problem that no longer endures our river of empty words. There's one question that needs to be answered here. Unfortunately, we've already got the answer. The ruling majority will not accept the bill. We as an opposition, no matter what you do to us now, and what you are, what would happen if it were, etc. Talk about burning rains and past rivers. We ask you what to do now and we try to say that it's not inconsistencies, that it's not cynical, it's human, it's normal, it's smart, it's what people expect to be helped by this law. So when the roof law is passed, I ask nicely who has it against that as many people as possible who are put in a position in which they are placed not by their own will, but by some chance, to try them in one dimension at least as much equal with the other citizens. This is really about one of the most endangered groups. And that's the whole philosophy. That philosophy costs 102 million kuna. Now we want to talk about where it's dropped out of the state of Spain 100 million, 30 million, 70 million, 15 million. Shall we talk about it? We can, but I don't think that's going anywhere. That would be politicizing. That's why I only appeal to the motionary to accept this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19737	Thank you. There's a replica, Mrs. Ljubica Lukacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19738	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I'd agree with a colleague named Jurevich who said we shouldn't be outsmarting here today. It's true, pal, we don't need to outwit ourselves. You mentioned that this is a very difficult, very difficult human life for these people with disabilities. Do you think a paraplegic, a dystrophy or a cerebratory man is not a hard life? I'm not diminishing in this difficult life of blind people. Just because you mentioned it would be as smart and human as you said earlier that we all agree on one thing that all persons with disabilities should have equal rights and equal access to all rights. This way you're trying to do it today is not the right way and it's not the same approach.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19739	Mr. Jurevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19740	You see, you are now imputing to me how I, by my advocacy, by advocacy, I treat one group unfairly or by some groups of disabled people or people who are affected by some disability. I assure you it's not about that at all. It's about one truly inverse reverse logic. We're not going to help one because we're not ready to help everyone right now, and I can also ask you, and how is it that almost every country in the post-war Europe has solved really the problems of people talking about blindness, and maybe not everyone else. But I'm not diminishing the needs of other people at all, it's not at all, because that's one I think, I don't know I won't use a single ugly word right now. But then, if it turns out now, if you're standing up for this group of people, you're against someone else being determined. Well, this is where we said a thousand times today let it be settled. God forbid it's settled tomorrow, but let's not delay what exists today, because I don't see any logic. I don't see any logic about it and that's why it doesn't seem like a strong argument at all to help these people. It's a normal thing to tell you now that we're going to talk about all the fates there are and who's affected by what kind of disability there is.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19741	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Zdravko Ronko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19742	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs, distinguished secretaries and distinguished members of the Croatian Union of the Blind. I would not talk today about how we at the local level are trying to help solve these problems, or how blind people exercise their right, because today is not a topic. Today's subject is the Law of Supplement to Blindness. And that is why I would say that the blind are citizens of this country with a serious disability which we in this House do not need, but we should have long ago allowed them to exercise their basic right, the right to full integration in society and the right to be available to all the benefits of our society. More than 10 years ago, the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia reached a conclusion that obliges the Government of the Republic of Croatia to systematically regulate the financing of the needs of the blind. And as you know, is that why we have this topic today, it's done nothing. The Croatian government, which busses high values, high standards and European breast, holds the amount of surcharge to its blind citizens at 50 euros, maximum 50 euros, Albanian to 80, Serbian, Montenegrin, Bosnian Herzegovina to 175, Macedonia has decided on 30% of the average salary, Slovenians set 300 euros, and the French as we had the opportunity to hear 700 euros. That we're bad, we are, but we're so bad, we're not, or the government has some other information that we don't know. And that is why today, because of the achievement of basic human rights to correct a series of so far illogicalities and irregularities, we have before us this proposal of the law on blindness allowance and today we are talking about it and nothing else. And this bill treats this allowance as an integral addition. So, something not a little, but a lot wider than access, so far access to a mere social category. Moreover, this proposal or such a bill is not a party to the European Union countries, of which we also prescribe such laws. This is exactly the kind of approach I would have come out of the greys of the Social Care Act because it is often unfair because, according to that law, the blindness compensation is determined according to the criteria of the cause of disability, that is, the criteria of the cause of disability, and not according to the type and degree of disability. And when you add that to determine a little bit of money and everyone in the same basket, basically no one has anything. The government's rejection of this law as it has surprised many, so it has surprised me, but at the same time it means that we remain on the loose promises and inactions. I don't know how else to understand or interpret liberacy, tromostness, indolence of state institutions that instead of proactive action of the profession and political will actually form working groups to maintain the status quo. I read the work group or working group in two years, and they met twice, and that's all. The question is, do we still have the cheeks to keep the blind at this charity? I would remind fellow MPs, the government doesn't always have to be right. She proved it very clearly to me, and the other day when it blew their ears off when they began to misrepresent themselves until yesterday able, panickingly propose laws, printing money as much as they needed, etc., etc. We should, but let's ask ourselves what would happen, God forbid the government blinds us. Would you wait, would they wait 10 years? Would they form committees for the sake of committees and would they argue that there is no means to implement this and such a proposed law? Of course not, and that's why I think there should be one archaic, one standard for all. I would call on our deputies to accept this proposal, to be unique here, regardless of the government's position. I'm not a utopian, you don't have to laugh, and we don't need to incorporate him into that roof law when there really is one day, and when someone makes it, said 2009, 2010, maybe 2011 about that. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19743	Thank you. We have one replica, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19744	Dear colleague Ronko, you mentioned in your discussion a table that only I in my debate called unnecessary parallel table. In fact, I hope you don't think that these first two categories that are listed in that table, the first two rows of disabled Homeland War and civilian war victims, and the amount of monthly blindness that has been determined for the sake of war, are compared to those next three columns. So the cause of the origin or the way the blindness occurs clearly that when we talk about war and war, then it's something else compared to this. So it's not just in these first two categories that I was talking about, so the disabled of the Homeland War, so blindness, that in some way it's rewarded in terms of the amount of blindness, but the very way of the Homeland War. But with this line to be moved, I certainly agree with you in that amount of 2160 kuna for the blind, yes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19745	Thank you. Ms. Representative Mirjana Feric-Vac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19746	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the association, I warmly welcome you colleagues and colleagues. I'm traveling through Zagreb, Draskovic and it's nighttime and a girl comes in with a stick and looks for a place to sit and a young man yells, "So why did you go out into the night?" That girl turns around and says, "It's always night for me. And sits in one place where someone gets up and a tram travels on a Zagreb night that's for us at night, for her it's a regular state. And then directly, it was winter, behind it comes to the benches of a bill that, if anything else I mean, let's thank God once goes law where no position, opposition, party in power, party in opposition is shared because it's about people who need all the help. A team before and in the assessment of the situation states that the Republic of Croatia as a member of the United Nations and the Council of Europe is a signator of all key conventions, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia directly guarantees special concern in protecting persons with disabilities and their inclusion in life and third, the need for the adoption of laws, strategy one, therefore something is happening. But it stands further in reason and this is far more arguments as to why I want to report and I want to say that I will vote for this law, because I am voting for the solutions of those people who are not by their own fault, and that they have found their guilt in the situation that they need some additional assistance. They need it as long as they're children, if you've seen them as blind children moving to their homes and parents who teach them how to move. We're talking about people today, we're thinking about the ones we meet on the street, maybe we're not thinking at this point about children who are largely in that number of blind people or later on as defined by the blind. So we go towards something that is good, which will allow these families to take better care of these children. And while we have hundreds of thousands of values on one side in some hours, people like that don't have watches that can tell us what time it is. The Association of Social Democratic Women's Forum in Osijek has worked for years with the Association of Blind and Years to organise humanitarian actions to provide for thermometers. Regular thermometers that indicate the temperature of a person’s illness may have a telephone, a telephone call, or a person in her area be able to get help. So that's the fact that we're in. The assistance of those who are predicted in this way means that the State Secretary said, that in Austria they warned her not to do so because the roof law was passed, so it would be a major distraction. That's not true, because we're working on, we're talking about a period that's a transitional period. We all want one better solution and one roof solution, it's not questionable. But while the roof solution is gone, if it is possible to achieve a partial solution, then this law is on track and should be supported. Calling as said by counterpart Škulić, advocate, spokeswoman and spokeswoman of certain associations and conflicting with each other is not good, because it is known that it can be shared and it does not benefit the people who need it no matter what kind of disability it was. Tomorrow, I hope that this roof law includes people who become disabled because they are so-called. rare diseases and these are new categories, people who are allergic, etc. But while we wait, one number of people is 24 hours a night and one number of people who care about them are in a difficult situation because there are not enough resources. The question of the budget will be one fundamental question. We will allocate funds, let us forgive tobacco producers, but we will allocate funds and encourage tobacco production, but we will not provide for people who need very much help, i.e. through the budget. And at the end of every day we walk past Ante Starčević, I don't know if you know what's under it. First of all, it says: "The right state is not only good for man, but it is a condition of every good."and every good one includes all the groups we talk about and why this law should be passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19747	Thank you. There's a replica, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19748	Thank you very much. You have well-respected colleagues noticed, the most common words that ruling today use to refuse this law is the convention, strategy, catalogue of law and roof law that you mentioned. Here today we have to prove that this supplement is necessary for the blind, as unfortunately, despite the strategy, the catalogue of rights and roof laws in Croatia, we need to prove that at least in the centres of the cities on each zebra should the asphalt be marked to tap the blind person with a stick where the transition is located. That no traffic sign on the footpath is below 180 where blind people break their heads because the signs are down to save below. And what's particularly important is, when are we going to introduce ballots on Braille's letter to the blind people in this country if we love them so much and we want them to be equal with the others? Why do they have to come to the polls with other people? Why don't we correct the step and let these people, for example, vote on their own. Is that the cost of the state? Or, for example, by eliminating the incentive to produce 71 million tobacco, could those resources be put forward?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19749	Thank you. Reply by Mrs. Mirjana Feric-Vac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19750	Thank you very much to my colleague Lesar, too. However, it is true that all problems are not solved by one government and one law, nor are they dealt with in this way by calling one government for something that was 6, 7, 8 or 9 years ago. Because watch when the Stabilisation and Association Agreement was passed in this House, in which I believe that no representative of any party to whom Croatia is not in the interest of joining the European Union is sitting, then a political group has walked out of this House. She didn't vote for, or against, or abstained, but simply walked. So all of this together when we get back to this law and the attitude towards man as a standard of everything, then the question is, what are we going to discuss here further when we keep moving the line of problem solving into an undefined future?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19751	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Andri Hebrang's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19752	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here we are today discussing something that we all agree on, that a group of people with disabilities with severe visual impairment, a group that certainly deserves to be and must have more income than they have from different sources today. What are those receipts, we don't know. On the basis of which you determine disability is not agreed, and I will only tell you one thing. I have received representatives of this group as chairman of the Committee on Health and Social Care, I am sympathetic to them and for years I have been following their problems and I have personally participated in previous years in solving some of their problems. But in that same position that I am currently taking, I have also received representatives of other groups of heavy 100% disabled people who have sought, so don't pass a law like this. And now I ask you, what do you do? I mean not to politicize, I mean not to make an unfair decision, but to ask the profession, what the profession says about it. Unlike politics, the profession here has no unique solution and because of what Mrs. Secretary of State said, it takes some time, it will take some time, but I believe a very short time and that by the end of the current year we can come up with just solutions for all groups of disabled people. Who's a 100% disabled person? We sent together such an inquiry to the Croatian Institute of Public Health to list 100% people with disabilities. There are no such tables in Croatia. There are no such tables in many other countries, because the criteria for establishing 100% disability are incredibly different, not defined, but there are international recommendations which are now being followed by the resolution ministry and therefore I believe that there will be a goal and correct the injustices of one group of 100% disabled people, but according to all groups with 100% disability. For example, it should be said that at this time in the Republic of Croatia there are 5 bodies that expert on the most difficult degree of disability. Three of them interpret on the basis of rules that do not contain any data on the percentages of disability, and two of them according to regulations containing such data. The first three are the following, the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, the Ministry of the Family, the defender and intergenerational solidarity for disabled defenders, their commissions, the Ministry of Health and Social Care for Military and Civil Disabilities War. The following group, with the following two, are first-degree expert bodies for social care centres, and first-degree bodies for public administrations responsible for skills education based on rules that do not contain data on the percentage of disability. By what standard do you define 100% disability? And that's a big question. There are two categories of normatives, one that speaks on the basis of an international classification of diseases and another group of experts who disagree with the first because it is not only a diagnosis of disability, but the second group according to the international rule, according to the international document, that the overall health condition and functioning of the organism should be taken into account. If it were to be artificial based only on the first group, so the diagnosis, then in Croatia, the picture of the heavy disability would look like this. The number of persons is undefined because they are undefined diagnosis. I will only visit that in the most difficult group with 100% disability for which the same problem should also be solved, 5 thousand 852 persons with a degree of difficulty, a thousand 280 residual schizophrenia, 2 thousand 126 severe and deep mental retardation, steam and tetraplegia 4 thousand 315, deafness a thousand 860. Listen to those numbers, it's all a category of the most difficult disability. Terminal renal failure of a thousand 154 persons, Down syndrome of a thousand 304 persons, organic permanent disorders after extreme cerebral inversible injuries of a thousand 124 persons, 762 persons with pneumokoniosis, heart damage of this high degree of 820, and ultimately defenders with 100% disability of 842. Where are the blind people here? Blind persons are represented in the records of the Croatian Institute of Public Health with a number of 6 thousand 356 in the document before us is the number of 5 thousand 806. So between the proposed document that we are discussing today and the diagnosis-based records, there is a difference of 550 blind people. Are we going to figure out who will get these rights that we are discussing, or on the basis of exact science, international experience, international documents, wait another month or two, so if it takes three to make a fair decision? That's my question. And that's why all those dramatic statements we've been listening to and all those so I'd say the sentimental statements we've heard here, I deny with one quote, "I'm not allowed for anyone to have a greater social sense than I am and a greater sense of social justice." I just don't let that happen. I've proven it with my life and I can tell you that I'm the author of over 50 legal and sublegal acts that are currently bringing benefits to the disabled. How many colleagues of yours have you done? So I'm not going to politicize. I want to get back on the subject of my exposure. There are today international guidelines that have been adopted in most countries, there are professions and experts who can do so. That's why I take back everything I've said here politically and conclude with the language of the profession. We go together both left and right, and those who spoke differently in this place five, six years ago than today, and we who said the same thing then and today, we make peace together in one goal, to earn compensation and not only compensation, but also the status in society gets all disabled with 100% disability, not just one group. We make no distinction between them and make justice as best we know and can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19753	We have one replica of Mr. Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19754	Comrade Hebrang, your statement that you don't allow anyone to have a greater social sense, I know you wanted to say sensitivity, caused a laugh, an open laugh. Not here in the hall, but from the gallery. You argued here as if you had come to Croatia yesterday from another country, but from another planet. You say there are five bodies that determine the degree of disability. You were the Minister of Health in the last term, so why are there five bodies? So why didn't you handle it when you were a minister? So you're now finding here, you're found, that the lists are messy, that you don't know how to determine the degree of disability, that we have too many bodies that we don't have uniform criteria. So why didn't you even them while you were Minister? Let's not keep pulling ourselves together for some time from twenty-fifteen years ago, and I'm not asking you during your ministerial term in that first period, but now back in the last five years, I guess there's been plenty of time to work this out. And you realize that's how it is, so here we are. It couldn't have found us. This is your responsibility we are talking about here and precisely because of the lack of that responsibility you are experiencing especially from the Gallery.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19755	Mr. Andri Hebrang's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19756	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Stazic got a little confused when he said my statement that I was socially sensitive caused a mockery. It seemed to me to be the crying of your party who in the four years of her term made so many unsocial and social moves that it would take not time for one replica but for a full day's debate. And again, I'm telling you, I'm not letting you be socially sensitive to me because you didn't show it with your life, I did. My profession is social and I've been doing social work my whole life and you've only started working socially since you started your communist party decades ago. In the replica, I can tell you further. Yes, I was Minister of Health. Why didn't I start doing that? I was a health minister and fought against the victims of Serbian aggression. When I became Minister of Health in 2004, I began this reform but in a year it was not even made by a genius, let alone by me, so now continues today's ministry and secretary of state. So I did start, it goes on, and I'm proud of the stake I left in it. And in the end, I must tell you, this regulation didn't begin to be made in 2004 as I said. We made the first adjustments in this area in 1993 at the time of the most severe attacks on the Republic of Croatia and then we had a social issue and passed the first law that objectively valorises disability. So, fellow Trainer, in your statements a little less politics and a little more humanity.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19757	Thank you. Correction Mr Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19758	Dear fellow Hebrang, when he said that there was no classification of 100 percent disability, he was not telling the truth because there is a World Health Organization classification that accurately states which people with disabilities are 100%. Therefore, it exists. Why Croatia doesn't have it it's an open question. On the other hand, the proposal for this law does not bring dissension between anyone. So I don't believe that's why you wouldn't pass this law. It's only obvious that some disabled associations have their own particular interests that don't suit this clean and simple setting things up in the system.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19759	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19760	Thank you. Mr. President. I must admit that I am truly amazed by the reaction of one part of the assembly after one of the findings spoken by our club president here. So, if you consider that it is a man who is a doctor and who has devoted his whole life to patients and the past and life of the gentleman concerned who wants to know and who wants to know, and who has unfortunately had enough reason in life to really build that social sensitivity because he has suffered himself because of those who have not had feelings of sensitivity. This certainly is no one here among you in this assembly, but that is no reason to truly respect each other and not at the same time give everyone the right to social sensitivity. I would also like to say exactly what Mr. Andrija Hebrang was talking about and start this debate even though I have to admit my knees are shaking because I don't feel comfortable right now. So I don't think any of us here in this assembly are sensitive to anyone and that this sensitivity should be compared in a way that doesn't allow anyone to be socially sensitive. And I think that we are all invited to this sensitivity and that we are doing so because at the end of the day and as representatives we are chosen to solve certain problems in front of the people, and this one here that I'm talking about. True, we look at them differently. For what reason do we look at them differently? So I wouldn't say that we look at them differently because of the level or the dose of social sensitivity, but we look at it differently because we're the ones who support the government and one other part of this Parliament is opposition and it doesn't support the government. So there's the key thing, so that's politics. And we have the right to our decision, you have the right to your decision, but that's no reason why I'm looking at you right now less close, less expensive, and especially less socially sensitive, but no one else can look at me or anyone else why I'm not up to this bill of law. Well, I'm not for the basic reason why it's perfectly understandable, quite clearly, here was the secretary of state and a lot of people, and also on our committee on which we had a very serious debate I would say very thoroughly prepared by Mr. President of our club Mr. Andrija Hebrang, where the representatives of the association we're talking about, so the people to whom this law applies clearly in one way or another, let this problem be solved. So it wasn't heard there, it really wasn't heard from the people who were there, I think it was the president of the Association of the Blind and that he said this had to go away, unless this went through etc. He told the men to solve this problem for me. Therefore, no one has said that this problem does not exist, no one demeans it, no one hides it under the carpet or who walks past it, though. So, the government has made several acts, several documents of the conventions, a strategy that has been adopted in favour of making it clear that it is sensitive to this issue. However, it simply refers to this issue differently, in part, and because of the experience some countries have had which have just accepted this method of solving this problem. So from these people came a suggestion and on this side came a suggestion not to partially solve things, but to solve things in general, solve it in a way that you solve it entirely, so to look at all aspects, and that all categories of people who have a high degree of disability are solved in a way that this solution really is a solution for everything equally. So I'm really giving up my debate as I conceived it, and since I'm the last person I'm speaking here I'm going to conclude with a real call, and here's the belief that this thing can be set up just the way you set it up, the way it's set up by the opposition, it can be set up. It can be said: Let's get rid of this, and then when we get there, we'll solve something else in general, or we'll solve it all together, or we'll withdraw, I don't know, that decision we've just made. You can access it that way. I don't think that's the wrong approach, but I don't know if it's right. I really don't know if it's right. So someone who systematically deals with this matter and who systematically thought about it, studied and developed it, I believe it works in full faith. He decided on a different path. He suggested a different solution. And it's easy to test that solution, so in the opinion of the government in the last paragraph, it states neatly that by the end of this year, the government will come out with a proposal for a law on social care that will take into account this issue and every other one. So I also don't think it's wrong, but I think it's been approached systematically. I just trust this government and on this matter. Therefore, it is not my support to the Government and to this solution in terms of rejecting this problem and not solving this problem but in terms of support that this, that this problem and each other is fully resolved and that in fact all categories of the most difficult disabled are solved and satisfied. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19761	Thank you very much. Does the Proposer want it to be final? Here you go. Mrs. Vesna Škulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19762	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, first of all, I would like to thank all the colleagues and colleagues who participated in the debate. But that's where I started from the end, or I'd like to go back to the beginning of my statement, to my colleague Bagaric's statements. I believe we are all here in good faith and good intentions. I am sorry that no political consensus has been reached before in the previous assembly of the Parliament when this bill was in the parliamentary procedure. I am truly sorry that the issues of people with disabilities are not solved by that political consensus that does not surface our politics. I'm trying to be neutral here because I'm the person who's above all the right person with the disability and their dignity. By participating in the work of the UN Commission for the Making of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and by creating some parts of the articles and the same convention that we are now referring to in this Croatian Assembly, I believe that I have acted impartially and that I am in the service of these people at the gallery and not just them, but in the service of all 450 thousand in the Republic of Croatia. Otherwise, I'm sorry that this bill came across a red light right in a country that boasts and we rightly boast that we signed among the first and ratified the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Instead of serving this law as a model for solving all other groups of people with the most difficult degree of disability, we return the problem to the beginning. However, I am glad that this debate took place for a very long time. There is a document called equalising the rights of people with disabilities and where, where it speaks of sensitization of the public. I hope that in a certain way we have sensitised each other and also the public who will become more sensitive to the problems of people with disabilities and will treat them not as some merciful problem but as a problem of human rights. I also speak on behalf of those whose problem is slow or in no way solved or just declarative. Mrs. Nikolic, I'd like to ask you now, don't you have to answer me right now how much more patience it takes? You were talking about patience. Please tell me when? Not to me, but to these people at the gallery and all the people with the most difficult disability. Otherwise the people at the gallery are one wider spectrum. These are people who receive those 270 kunas and those who receive 3,000 and 700 kuna. So these are civilian people with disabilities, civilian war victims, disabled people in the Homeland War. So it's one broad spectrum and I think they're all interested, everyone from their position to pass this law. So, Mrs. Nikolic, when? What will be the government's responsibility if it doesn't make this law by the end of the year? So will it be you, will you resign because of it or the minister? I am therefore interested in sanctions because they will continue to wait or because someone will continue to be patient. And you know for a fact that every patience has an end. Mr. Kunst, I'm sorry he's not here, he said that the roof organizations of the disabled have rebelled against the adoption of this law. I'm really interested in how many of them were real people with disabilities or were just their speakers because unfortunately I don't know how much you're referred to the fact that ugly things happen to people with disabilities organisations where they manipulate people with disabilities. Just ask yourself, who's running these organizations? That these same people are here both in the Parliament and in the government bodies. How can someone represent persons with disabilities and in the legislative authority, in the executive government? And also be in charge of civil society. My colleague Lukacic said that people with disabilities do not need help but a well-organized system. I agree with her. But what I'm curious about is when this well-organized system is going to function? And it involves a wide range of well-organized, enforceable regulations that will not only be a set of good wishes and will equalize all persons with disabilities regardless of the way, time and place of disability. I agree with Mr. Hebrang that there are standards to determine the most difficult disability. It's not a problem in the charts. The problem is the length of time since it's been working. Mr. Hebrang, I don't know if you know that this is already, that the working group was founded in 2004 and that this task force is not meeting. I don't really know what's going on with her? And I ask you, from your position as board president, to ask what stage it is. Unfortunately, this law is not the subject of discord among people with disabilities. The breakup has already been made long before. These people at the gallery know that well. Once again, I thank all my colleagues and colleagues for the debate. It was my desire to avoid any form of politics. To include a high policy with a quality solution for all groups of people with disabilities. On behalf of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, I ask the representatives of the Croatian Parliament to support this bill, and thus begin the process of equalising the rights of all persons with disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19763	Thank you very much to Mrs. Representatives Vesni Škulić. I'm closing the debate. They'll decide when the conditions are met. Seven. Proposal for an addendum law on blindness, first reading, P.Z. No. 63. The Proposer is the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. The debate is closed. I am giving the vote the conclusion in line with the proposals of the parliamentary working bodies and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which reads: The proposal for a law on a blinding allowance is not accepted. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. The proposal for a conclusion was adopted by a majority of 73 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 40 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19766	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I will not explain this proposal by reading what I have suggested, but through two life events, two lives of fate. To try to prove to you that this proposal is not a consequence of political competition, but of the desire that our laws really do correspond to the moment and time. I just hope that this context of the moment and time in Croatia in the attempt or unity of the fight against organised crime will not be seen as an attempt to help them, not as citizens who are in both of these cases that the law or the addition of the law does not see. The first article, interventions in the Criminal Procedure Act, refers to a situation where police are based on a court order to search the apartment, business premises, cars or persons suspected of possessing objects or things based on the application of another or by official duty. So, I repeat, on the basis of a court order, the police execute a court order and search. On this proposal of this intervention, I was offered a true event that did not happen so long ago when, in the morning, police raided the apartment of a citizen of the town of Čakovec, looking for gold jewelry, necklaces and such, brooch, rings, and all that was in gold and women's jewelry. They awakened two neighbors who witnessed the search and, after a thorough search of the apartment for more than two hours, determined that the cases were not found in the court’s order. The record was signed by both witnesses as well as by the owner of the apartment, which was suspected to be in possession of the requested items. The police packed things up like that record, and they left. He stopped them at the door, says give me a copy of the record. They kindly replied that he had no right to the record, that by law they would not give the record to him, but that they would refer him to the court who issued the order. The man went to court the next day, contacted the judge who issued the warrant. He immediately replied that he did not own the record, but that only from the competent police station had received a report that the requested items had not been found. And he referred him to the municipal state attorney's office. The man from Varazdin came back to Čakovec and went to the Municipal State Attorney's Office because they told him that they really had nothing to do with the case, they don't know why the record would be with them, let him go to the police, that the police had to give him a record. The man went to the police again where they read to him and interpreted the law and said no, you have no right to the record. He asked whether it meant that based on this court that you have and that you can re-examine my apartment tonight, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, in ten days, six months or another question as to how I'm going to prove that you've conducted a search based on a court order, that the cases described in that warrant have not been found. The police asked him, and what do you need it for? Now I'm also wondering if all of us here in the hall are really when in search of apartment, business space, cars or people themselves do not find objects that have sought a minimum government relationship with a citizen, the citizen of this country is not to get a copy of the records he has to sign. There's another absurd. If the requested cases are found they shall be withdrawn, they shall be listed in the minutes and in further proceedings before the court that report shall be part of the documents accompanying the indictment and the indictment. So, both the lawyer and the defendant then have the right and gets and sees the record and what's been established there. So if you're guilty, if you have the object requested, you'll get the record of the trial. But if you're innocent, if it's obviously an accusation or a suspicion that you own and that you're in possession of these things or objects, and if the police don't find it, then our law doesn't foresee the obligation to give the person that record. Why? What's the problem? Is there a possibility of abuse? Is there a situation where such citizens later have to prove that the search has been carried out and that the cases have not been found, and even if they do not have to be told by the basis of whose application, why the process has been carried out. But the fact that according to the Constitution, only redistribution is authorized to search the apartment and enter the apartment based on a court order which is very important does not come out or arise and the obligation of the directorship to give the citizen a document from which to see if anything has been found or not. Is that an extra cost? It's not. Paper has already been written, paper signed by witnesses, authorized police officer and citizen. Only one copy should be given to the citizen or there may be intelligence why this should not be given. I don't know, I've never done spy business, so I don't know. The second proposal or Article 2 refers to a case which is not rare. On the right, I just want to warn you that the same situation has been experienced by your member of the mayor of Vukovar. Me or Tomljanovic's colleagues have been charged with criminal charges under suspicion of committing a crime. As the municipal state attorney, my colleague Tomljanovic, forgive me, but your views have met, here I am withdrawing. For slander, here's to slander. So, after receiving a report from the state's attorney's office, he asks the police for criminal processing, criminal processing. Police are obliged to report on the finding after the completion of the criminal trial. If they have found the elements of the crime, the procedure continues, if not, there is nothing. Afterwards, the State Attorney's Office shall make a decision on the rejection of the application. It has reached a solution and sends it to the applicant of a criminal application if it is known, if NN, I do not know whether it is going to the advertising board or how it is then made public, but if the applicant is known, it shall be sent to him or, if by official duty, then it shall use itself to interrupt further work by the municipal state attorney. But there's something more important. When the police get a request from the State's Attorney's Office for criminal processing and for the determination of possible criminal offences, they put it in your police file. So, note that a criminal trial has been carried out with me entered into my police record without a result, so no enrolment was found. It's just that it's been determined that a criminal trial has been carried out and it's never deleted from the record. It remains forever inscribed. Does the State have a minimum obligation to inform the citizen in writing that the criminal application against him and, after the proceedings have been carried out, that the State's attorney has found that there is no basis for continuing the proceedings? I think so. And that we will not help organised crime, corruption, drug traffickers or people. I'm sure of it. When my proposal appeared in the procedure, the Government gave an opinion in which she wrote that she was preparing a full solution in the new law and that these two of my proposals would take the law seriously into consideration. And after several months of serious consideration, the government sent its draft law on criminal proceedings to the first reading. Those discussions, I hope you remember. The place where a similar provision should be contained in the Government's Proposal for a Code on Criminal Procedure for the submission of the minutes following the search are Articles 81 to 88, but there is no word in the proposal for a law in the first reading on the submission of the minutes to the citizen. The second proposal on the obligation to deliver a solution or to reject a criminal application should be located somewhere, so reject the criminal application by me in Article 225. The government's proposal that passed the parliamentary first reading, but there's not a single word about it. So the government obviously did not respect or install this proposal in the first reading of my proposals. You will now likely say that this will be seriously reconsidered and incorporated into the draft law for a second reading. I'm an optimist, and I want to believe that's how it's gonna be. Perhaps my formulations suffer some kind of improvement, repairs, perhaps these experts who deal with it there or here are smarter so they'll make it smarter, but to make sure everyone together that in the Government's proposal for a second reading, these two basic and basic requirements are incorporated, then I ask you to let this law go into another reading to be equal to the Government, so unless it's in the Government's proposal in the second reading that we have an alternative here. I want to believe that I have convinced you that, in the background of this proposal, there is only an attempt, my own attempt to make criminal legislation in that part, especially when it comes to, and in one other case, about citizens who are innocent, where there is no basis for continuing the proceedings because, therefore, or the state body, the state's attorney or police have established that or something that has been sought or listed in the criminal application is not correct, they have the right to do so in the same body, the authorities of repression when it comes to the police or the attorneys to do so. It is also interesting to explain in the conversations I had, but also in personal experience when I addressed the municipal state attorney and the county attorney to the state's attorney who explained this situation this way: "You know, Mr. Representative, we don't tend to reject criminal charges and pass on to the person against whom she was filed or criminalized." And my question was, tell me, gentlemen of the state's attorneys, who created this custom? Where did he come from? From Austro-Hungarian? When? What were the circumstances of the creation of customs? If that custom worked and was good enough until now, is it time to change it? And my second question is, is it possible that, as part of harmonising our legislation with European legislation, it would not be a good thing to put it with European or to claim that no member of the European Union, that no directive nor the right standards of the European Union has the obligation of the state to say, here we are looking, we haven't found, there was a crime, you're not guilty? And it's interesting that oral and phone conversations give you answers. Don't worry, there's nothing to worry about. That's the answer I got, like me. There's nothing there. I wrote that the implementation of this law in the budget of the State does not require additional financial resources. I'm sure it wouldn't add to the fact that police officers in writing the minutes because they're writing it either as well as the state's attorney's office to copy that rejection solution they're sending to the applicant, so they're sending a copy of it to the person they were referring to. In that hope and belief and support and letting go of another reading, I will listen carefully to the debate and then mention some other things in the final word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19767	Thank you very much. Does a representative of the government want to explain? No, I don't. The government gave an opinion. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19768	Thank you very much. Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community does not support the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Criminal Procedure Act, for the very reason that it is in the parliamentary procedure in the ordinary procedure of the proposal for a new Criminal Procedure Act, and indeed new, therefore, means with complete amendments and additions to the law, and there is no reason to consider the initiatives or proposals in question and not to consider this final proposal of the Criminal Procedure Act. Otherwise, a valuable initiative by a representative that actually goes in two directions refers to two procedural criminal institutes. Therefore, in the first situation it is the delivery of a certified copy of the record consisting of a search of an apartment or person, i.e. at home and this second situation, which regulates the way of delivery, or simply delivering a rejected criminal application, or the question or answer to which all entities are asked a reasoned solution of the State's attorney to reject criminal charges should be in a specific situation in a specific case and delivered. In the first situation, it is indeed a sensitive legal issue and injurement in the constitution guaranteed the rights of citizens, and this in the area of personal and political rights and freedoms and the express constitutional provision is determined that the home is invulnerable and that only the court can, by means of a reasoned written order based on the law, determine that the home or other space is searched. Following these constitutional provisions and the law also accurately regulates this matter in such a way as to ensure that the search of home or other space must be attended, I repeat, at least two adult citizens as witnesses must be present, and these witnesses are warned, among other things, that the search is carried out and that they have the right to submit their observations prior to the signing of the report if they consider that the search has not been carried out in a manner prescribed by law or that the content of the minutes is not correct. Furthermore, the search of a home or other space may be the presence of a person who is in or is in possession of a space or person who is authorised to attend the search. Thus, it has been reduced by existing legal solutions to the minimum possibility of abuse. There is no possibility of abuse in this situation of any kind in the making up of the minutes itself and the question arises to which entities after the completion of the search, since in essence I want to stress here and here, therefore, in my essence, it is about evidence actions, i.e. carrying out a proof procedure, and then to whom all such a record in terms of the criminal proceedings to which the circle of the subjects is to be delivered. And now the second situation. So it's all those cases where the state's attorney rejects criminal charges and whatever the reason for the rejection is. The law provides for situations in which the state's attorney, the state's attorney, therefore rejects the criminal charges filed. However, it is important here to note that in all these situations when it comes to the rejection or rejection of a criminal application, the State's attorney does so by a solution which must necessarily be reasoned. Therefore, from a written solution which is explained, not only are the reasons for the rejections which must, of course, be based on the law on the very criminal application itself but also on persons who, in the context of criminal prosecution, are subject to a certain act. It certainly remains an open question whether it is necessary to inform the person covered by the criminal application. Because, in its procedural legal sense, the criminal proceedings have not yet been initiated as well as the question of whether the names of natural persons should be listed in that notice if they or those applicants are criminal charges, and the criminal offence being prosecuted under official duty, the more all citizens are obliged to report the offences for which the prosecution is committed under official duty, and we also have that situation, of course, that the law prescribed and the situations in which the non-discrimination of criminal offences is also a criminal offence. Thus, according to everything exposed and the fact that the Law on Criminal Procedure passed the first reading. We also had some opportunities this morning to hear in what sense the amendments and that regulation will take place, in terms of final solutions and what questions I would dare to say to the Crucilital or the large one that pressures our society will surely respond, so in this sense I see no reason not to answer these two questions, but, nevertheless, from all the issues raised, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community cannot support this proposal of the law in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19769	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19770	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Representative of the Government. Well, here I would say that no law is actually perfect. The law changes, life requires, finally, and the government has referred to the procedure that passed the first reading, but perhaps what should be pointed out is that this proposal by Mr. and colleagues of Lesar has been referred before, is referred to the parliamentary procedure before, and it deals with the subject, although it is narrow, which has personally intrigued and interested me. I do not see anything controversial about what Mr. Lesar is proposing in these two articles in these two amendments, and I would even agree as much as possible if the competent ministry, or the government is seriously considering that what Mr. Lesar is proposing in this proposal in front of the government, to be respected and to find a solution that is about to be traced to what Mr. Lesar suggests in these amendments of the law. When we talk about the search, the search of the car, the search of the apartment, the search of the official premises, I would ask the government representative to explain to me why it is either in front of the HDZ club, right, there was a little more exposure, which is why the person whose apartment is being searched, he personally, his car, his official premises, which is why he can't get that record. I mean, it's inconceivable to me if you want to, if not legally, but then it's for me if anything else, a thing of culture. I'm sorry if the police came to my apartment, if the police in that apartment didn't find anything, if there are witnesses, according to legal criteria, police representatives, and now the police are doing a search, and I can't get it, I'm asked to sign the report, and I can't get it. Well, I guess it doesn't make sense that I get that paper. 'Let's make an example of one, if you come as a patient to me, I examine you and I say listen, I've established that you're not sick and I'm telling you, so you listen so you can't get the results. Would you accept that? I don't think so. I don't think there's any reason for the office to be searched, we haven't found anything in the apartment, we've made a record, we've signed witnesses and an authorised police representative, but let me, as the owner of that apartment, look for a record about it. I'll give you another example. I've recently been in a situation where, despite the fact that I've called for immunity, I've committed a traffic violation, I've been aware of that and of course told the police, is that by not calling for immunity, and even asking myself if you have immunity. Well, I don't have immunity for a traffic violation. So where did I get immunity in a traffic violation, so I have to act on the road like all the other citizens. However, at the moment when I don't know why, I'll call him rude, reach that extent that I'm asked if I have a weapon, so I've also culturally answered the weapon, or if it wasn't in my car, I don't usually carry it, but I store it in a safe place. So why am I going where I'm going, so where am I going? So then I called for immunity at the moment when those traffic cops who were in... or "Cobra" or I don't know what they're called, it doesn't matter to me at all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I asked you to wait for the people you're looking for? I'm a representative at the Croatian Parliament, you can see, search the free car, because you have no right to do so. So, at that point, I opened their car, everything they asked for. A record, witnesses? Nor were they witnesses, so a search was carried out. Here, according to this, a search has been carried out. I also have evidence of what I'm saying, a search was carried out, there was no witness. I introduced myself to them who I am, what I am, where I come from. He warned them only when they searched and their arrogant behavior that I had immunity and that he was protecting me but that I had absolutely no reason not to show them the car, everything they wanted, but neither did I get the record, and at that point I had the right to ask for the record. A record that would serve me, maybe as some kind of proof. Somewhere. Like I said, I had, if anything, a minimum of cultural behavior. Not to mention, the arrival of the police, the search, the harassment of neighbors, the time spent in that search, and not leaving a single trace. If possible abuse, there's a possibility of abuse, and it certainly does, and I think that the list would be long, but actually it's not in this case it doesn't seem to matter to me. It's important that I go back to the beginning, so I don't see it, and somebody explain to me, no reason for the person whose apartment is being searched, the person whose apartment is being searched, to make up the record, so that this person doesn't get it directly into his hands. Now, according to this second proposal, when criminal charges are filed. Well, more or less, there are many times that we who do business here in this business in a situation where someone submits criminal charges. He filed a criminal report to the attorney's office, a police attorney's office, and a criminal trial was conducted. And there's been a crime against me for various reasons. For example, corruption. With its influence in one way or another, I've guessed to say "Sladoran County" leaves, goes to Virovitica instead of Osijek or vice versa. The police are conducting an investigation, and in a way that includes both tracking and listening, and so I'm simplifying, they can't do that until immunity is removed. So I hope they don't do it until they've got an agent or an immunity officer until his immunity is removed. I want to believe that, although lately I hardly doubt whether that's the case. And then he's hoping for me or some fellow I don't have immunity, he's conducting an entire investigation, so he's listening, and then it's being followed, and then it's concluded that the attorney's office doesn't have any elements for criminal charges and that application is rejected. I'm sorry, does someone think after months of follow-up that I don't have the right to report a lawyer, which is why I was suspicious, which is why I was followed, which is why I was tapped, which is why I took away someone's right? Why can't I know, and who filed the criminal charges? And maybe he filed a criminal report to cause me a lot of trouble in my life. I had, for example, how many, ten years ago, one criminal application at the time of the hospital's election. When the contest is called. And maybe someone filed a criminal report just to disqualify me in a hospital director's contest for which I, by the way, had no ambition at all. But it was a criminal report. Well, if I've been under investigation, if I'm hoping it's me that you're listening, tracking, and I know everything the police in your department are doing is doing, and I think when the attorney's office finds out that there are no criminal charges because for that criminal application she wasn't secretly done that no one knows. They knew my colleagues, too. They knew my family too. The neighbors knew about it, too. So why don't you just let me not show the lawyer's solution in public, if you don't want me to publish it in the paper, so I'm just saying that's not true, and that's what it is. I don't think I see any of the only reasons in this way for the state's attorney's solution or anyone else who's in charge not to stand up to anyone who's actually been under investigation. However, in this proposal from Mr Lesar, the proposal goes in Article 1, he says, when there is no basis for that report, I will return. Therefore, where no basis has been established, no object requested in the apartment has been found, in that case, that person shall be entitled to the minutes. And I'd say that person should be entitled to the record right now. So, not at that moment, you don't have to wait until the indictment is filed, but for which I don't see a single reason, the case was found, the record was made up, the witnesses signed it, and that's why he couldn't get the record right away. So let me get this straight. Here are these two cases and descriptions, maybe I've elaborated a little bit wider. I would just like to say that the HDSSB club supports this proposal of the Law on Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Act, aware that it is probably not going to be adopted, but I also appeal or believe that both the competent ministry and theproposers will consider this particular issue and will include it in this draft law in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19771	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. She is the first representative of Mrs Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic. She's gone. Second, Mr. Representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19772	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Lesar, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Criminal Procedure of MP Dragutin Lesar proposes the mandatory delivery of a certified copy of the minutes to the person who was the object of taking the search for the apartment and the action did not establish the legal basis of the follow-up. It is also proposed that, in the event of the rejection of a criminal application, a State lawyer be required to report in writing to the person against whom the proceedings were initiated, rejected, and informed of who submitted the criminal application. These amendments would ensure, in the proposal, that the person whose premises are being searched for it has a written lead and would also ensure that the citizen is familiar with the fact that criminal proceedings are being conducted against him. In its opinion of the Republic of Croatia since 5 June 2008, the proposal in question has shown that it does not support it for the reason that the draft new Penal Code will be taken into consideration and the initiative of MP Dragutin Lesar. Respecting the argument given by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the fact that the Government of the Republic of Croatia referred to the Proposal for a Code of Criminal Procedure, that the same Croatian Parliament held a debate in the first reading that was concluded on 8 July 2008, and given today's presentation of the Ministers on the need to install a number of more newspapers that will soon follow, I believe that this proposal should not be supported for these reasons. The new Code of Criminal Procedure is significantly different from the law so far, it proposes a thorough and complete reform of the criminal procedure, and one of the key newspapers is proposed just in the previous procedure. Therefore, if there is any concern that Dragutin Lesar's proposal is not in the best way but consumed in the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the possibility of intervention in the second reading remains. In conclusion, I would like to stress that I agree with the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and do not support the Bill's proposal in amendments to the Law on Criminal Procedure in the text as proposed by MP Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19773	Thank you. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19774	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, we heard two new ministers here this morning. They announced new measures and announced an initiative to amend the law. And all the clubs gave them support. We can expect amendments to the law, we will discuss them when they come, but I think there is one principle consensus that the police should also be given greater authority, and that a state apparatus should be strengthened in the fight against organised crime and corruption. There seems to be a consensus about that. At the same time as we do, we have a duty, it is our duty to strengthen the protection of the innocent, those who are beyond that. That's exactly where this bill goes. The search of the apartment and it's just weird that so far there are no such provisions in the law. It's a failure of legislators in the past. But since my colleague Lesar saw it well, I don't see any reason but not a single one to accept this. There are no government-specific remarks, and the government does not object at all in a substantive sense. When it comes to filing a criminal application, there is even greater reason for the application. So be careful, filing criminal charges can be a means of political struggle. I file charges against someone, and then I inform the press that he's been charged with criminal charges, so tomorrow he's on the cover here's a criminal charges against the politicians. Why? Based on what? And now the one against whom a criminal report has been filed, he's silent there, as if he knows nothing about what's going to happen to him, no one's informing him of anything, and even when the application is rejected, he has no idea that she's been rejected. And if rejected, if this were to go in and we could ask by the Media Act if someone had already published on the cover that a criminal complaint had been filed against someone to publish in that same space the same information that the criminal application had been rejected. So then media often would not be used by means of a means and are used to diphase certain people. So there's no reason not to accept this. Now, that's the same story again. The government refuses to accept it because it will solve it more systematically and it will when it comes to order. I also received some measures this morning within the framework of existing legislation that start immediately with today. Considering they got the support for that. Since we can expect more effective responses from the repressive apparatus, we can expect and support it. We need more effective protection of the innocent, and that's why there's reason not to wait for the government now. Well, look, we've changed some of the government's laws. Today we bring it in, and we change it in three months, so we change it again in three months because the government remembers that she forgot this, so she forgot that. And what's the problem with letting this go to first reading, or second reading? What's the problem now is that we possibly declare it in a second reading by quick procedure. This could have been done by an emergency procedure because this does not require any major debates. Well, then when the government's proposal comes, then she won't have to put it on. If he thinks he needs to be changed, fix it so he can change it in that text. We'll take it if it's a better solution, why don't we just take it? But why do we always have to listen to the government when it does, come to order as in this previous point. There's a problem but we're not going to solve it now, but when the government does again, when she remembers she's going to do it comprehensively. This policy is not good. And forgive my colleagues, we must come time in this country when and the action of the repressive apparatus will also require us to perform our constitutional function of government control more responsibly. I'm not expressing a priorial mistrust, but it's our constitutional duty to control the government. So let us show this example. Well, this isn't at least any party, this isn't an ideological question, this is a matter of the right to protect citizens. Let us show that this parliament is already ready today not to accept every single government apology that it will later. So let's say here as a parliament and you as a parliamentary majority, so tell the government, but we as a parliament think this is good, and we will now accept it because the government doesn't oppose it either. Prepare yourselves as a parliamentary majority to this constitutional function that we will all have to perform together. It's the control of government's work in the times ahead, in times of probably increased repression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19775	Thank you. Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19776	Thank you. Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I answered after listening to the first few exhibitions and remained truly surprised during the debate on this bill. I didn't know a fellow Stazic would come forward because what he just said was what I needed to say. Namely, colleagues and colleagues nothing, but nothing is very controversial about Mr. Lesar's proposal, but nothing at all. And delaying it as Mr. Stazic said for some future time is really pointless. My colleagues and colleagues, every lawyer will do everything to protect his client's rights even if he commits the most serious crimes. But how we treat peaceful, correct, honest citizens of this country. That's the question. I even remained surprised Mr. President when you read at the beginning when we began the debate on this point that this bill had not been discussed by our Parliamentary Committee on Human Rights. I am personally deeply convinced that this is the parent body that should have considered this bill, not the Committee on Legislatives. This is about the classic protection of our citizens' rights. I agree completely with my colleague Šišljagić that it is a matter of culture to take such a record to a citizen but it is a matter of culture to even apologize to him when he is wrong. Everyone has the right to make a mistake, and the police, and I don't know who doesn't, but then there's one correct way to treat a citizen, and we have to do it here if we don't point out anywhere else, and that's why I'm very sorry that no one, not one of our colleagues from the Human Rights Committee, has reported that their position is related to this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19777	Thank you very much. Does the Proposer want it finally? Yeah. Mr. Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19778	Dear colleagues and colleagues try to remember in the last year how many times you have read the newspaper cover against a person, and so, the director of this and that, the manager, the manager, was filed a criminal application. And it stays. Doesn't matter who or why? A criminal report has been filed. And after a month, two, three, six or a year that person whose name or function was mentioned will not have any opportunity to prove and show great sight in these same newspapers but there was nothing. How many respected colleagues and colleagues have in the last year passed laws in which there is a provision that someone cannot be elected or appointed to a job, office or duty if the case is conducted against him. You remember the time usually 5.6 months before the election of any as suddenly increasing the number of criminal charges, and even anonymous and never could such things be brought to an end and cleared up because those persons who were subject to criminal processing have no evidence of it. A colleague, Tomljanovic, speaking on behalf of the HDZ Club, is indeed professional, we Međimurci would say as an excellent fiishkat problemed who to submit the minutes to, to whom to deliver a decision on rejection when no proceedings were even started, and that is the job of lawyers and lawyers. And we here in Parliament are neither lawyers nor lawyers, but through clear legal provisions, we are just trying to protect those citizens who don't need a lawyer's service to prove they're not wrong because it was proved by the police or the State's Attorney's office. And these people don't need lawyers. If I had been here today by a representative of the government, I would have heard what kind of solution was included in the draft law for a second reading, perhaps I could as a man and withdraw my bill if I were on that trail. But the government's obviouss except for the one from June are gone. The government representative did not give any indication as far as, it is indeed a big secret that a solution to the law will be in the second reading. But this is a classic example that both good ideas and suggestions don't go away because it's always the proposer's fault. It comes either from the wrong side or from the wrong position or it will be resolved later when someone else who still reads our laws and not just notices that we missed it. So I will not withdraw this bill because I know that tomorrow you will surely reject it by the fact that the government's representative has been silenced today. It is only proof that in the Government's proposal for a second reading this problem will not be solved. We will therefore continue to be in a situation where such a fundamental human right that colleagues Doric and Stazic have rightly warned us not to protect the law, and those who think there is no abuse you are wrongly. There's a lot of them. There'll be more. Because now all those who have used these methods will be encouraged by the government's unwillingness and parliamentary majority to accept the legal protection of innocent citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-29-0.u19779	It's a nice wave. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Ladies and gentlemen, I have announced that tomorrow at 9 and 15 MPs would be in the assembly because at 9:30 a.m., the President of the Slovak Republic, Mr. Ivan Gasparovic, will address the Parliament, so I would ask the clubs and representatives to indeed be in the assembly in the morning. And the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Features and Recognitions, which is now in order, should be the first reading of P.Z. No. 114, Proposer Ante Kotromanović, we will have to postpone it because, it is not, it is not, it is on the way, and the proposal for a law on the treatment of infertility and fertilisation procedures with biomedical aid proposed by the SDP Club will also be postponed on the proposal of the applicant. A SDP representative club which also explained in writing why it is requesting a postponement of the debate on this agenda point. Because of the time and obligations I have and have others, they would now interrupt the session. We would continue it tomorrow after the coming forward of the gentleman, the address of Mr President of the Slovak Republic with the item of the agenda of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, first reading of P.Z. No. 121. Proposer also representative Dragutin Lesar. So tomorrow we'll move on. Have a nice, pleasant evening. Thank you very much. 8. Proposal for a law supplementing the Criminal Procedure Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 68. Proposing representative Dragutin Lesar. The debate is closed. I am giving the vote in line with the proposal of the home parliamentary working body and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The proposal for a law supplementing the Criminal Procedure Act is not adopted. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This conclusion was accepted by a majority of 76 votes in favour, no abstentions and 38 against.
