ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u433	... I am opening the 3rd session of the Croatian Parliament. [[Home is not saved.]] I warmly welcome you all. I particularly welcome the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Dr Ivo Sanader, Vice-President, Vice-President and present members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This session begins with the meeting of the Croatian Parliament, which, according to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Rules of Procedure, begins on 15 January and ends on 15 July. I invite you to pay tribute at the beginning of the session to the homeland by performing anthem "Beautiful Our Homeland". We invite you to pay our respects to the fallen Croatian defenders and all civilian war victims for a minute of silence. One minute of silence. May eternal praise and glory be to them Ladies and gentlemen, you received the minutes of the 1st and 2nd session of the Croatian Parliament at the session. [[Intruder: Glory to them.]] Any objections to the records? If there are no objections, I would like to say that we have adopted the minutes of the 1st and 2nd session of the Parliament in the text as you have received them. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the agenda of the session. With the invitation to the session, you received a draft agenda. At the session, you are given the final draft agenda. I have included 5 new points in the final draft agenda: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Construction and Part-Circular of the Central Authorities of the State Administration with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, the First and Second Reading, P.Z. Number 7, Second, Proposal for a Decision on the 2008 Declaration of the Croatian Red Cross in the Republic of Croatia. Third, Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of members of the Committee on Ethics and Science and Higher Education. Fourthly, the Annual Report on the work of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the National Corruption Prevention Programme, from 13 October 2006 to 26 October 2007. Fifth, report on the work of the Committee on Ethics and Science and in Higher Education for the period from 6 February 2006 to 1 January 2008. This Regulation shall enter into force on the The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. The final draft agenda referred to in points 4 to 8, point 10 of the laws proposing the adoption of an emergency procedure. These are: Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Community of the Republic of Croatia on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Employment and Social Solidarity Community programme, progress with the Final Bill, emergency procedure, P.Z. Number 3. Secondly, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Community of the Republic of Croatia on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Community programme, the Specific Programme for Entrepreneurship and Innovation as part of the Competitiveness and Innovation Framework Programme 2007-2013 with the Final Proposal for the Law, the emergency procedure P.Z. Number 4. Third, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of a Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a Project for the Integration of Trade and Transport, a freight terminal at the port of Ploče with the Final Proposal for the Law, an emergency procedure P.Z. Number 6. Fourthly, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Construction and Part-Corruption of the Central Authorities of the State Administration with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure of P.Z. Number 7. Fifth, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Prison Penalty Act with the Final Proposal for Law P.Z., emergency procedure, P.Z. Number 5. Sixth, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants with the Final Proposal for Law, emergency procedure P.Z. Number 2. Do any of the representatives have any objections to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of these laws? If there's no we're going to vote on the emergency... Yeah? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Who answered? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u434	... Eight new agenda points. [[The speaker was subsequently turned on.]] I don't have that point here, and I haven't even heard what the laws are. And I think there's enough time for those points to be put together on the agenda to be delivered, delivered these materials and in the agenda that was called together a few days ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u435	Mr. Representative, I've proposed here five new agenda points that weren't on the call. I have now proposed them according to procedure and, of course, we will vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on this. Now I ask, so here you go, Mr. MP Mimica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u436	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have no objections to an emergency procedure for four laws that have been proposed here since five. I'm not on the fifth either, but I do believe that this emergency procedure should have come on a second basis, based on compliance with European legislation, for laws under regular number four. So that's this Memorandum of Understanding, the laws of these two that speak of the establishment of a state administration and of the one that speaks of the execution of a prison sentence. They've been P.Z.E. before. marked as laws and I believe that this is part of harmonising that part of our legislation with European legislation and that this time should also be marked as European and referred to the procedure as an emergency one which is not even voted on, the European procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u437	All right. If it is, I do not know if this is a law adopted under the procedure for compliance with European Union legislation that should be indicated. If it isn't you, you don't have any objections to the urgency of the procedure. So, no objections. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we move on to establishing a decision on a proposal to pass an individual law on an urgent procedure. The final draft agenda under points 4 to 8 and point 9 shall state those laws. Now we're moving on to a plea. Please, since not all MPs have received the keys yet, and some are not yet ready to be served technically this time, and this part I propose that we vote by hand-lifting, and then we will, then professional services in the break will organise both technical and other help with voting with the keys. I hope most MPs still got the keys. First, who is involved in the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law establishing a Memorandum of Understanding between the European Community and the Republic of Croatia in the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Community for Employment and Social Solidarity (PROGRESS) programme. Who's in? Against? I find that, for 144 votes for and 1 against, he has placed this item in the agenda by emergency procedure. Secondly, the Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Community and the Republic of Croatia on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Community Employment and Social Solidarity Programme. Is there? Who's in? Thank you. Against? I'm finding that with 144 for and 1 v is listed this point by emergency procedure. Who is involved in the implementation of the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Community and the Republic of Croatia on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Community programme “Special Programme for Entrepreneurship and Innovation as part of the Framework Programme for Competitiveness and Innovation”. Who's in? Thank you. Against? I find that with 144 for and 1 against an emergency procedure adopted on this agenda point. Who is for the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the “Project for the Integration of Trade and Transport – a terminal for the spread of cargo in Luci Ploče”. Who's in? Thank you. Against? I'm finding that with 143 for and 1 against he's been listed as an emergency procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the law amending and supplementing the Law establishing and delirious the central authorities of the State administration. Who's in? Thank you. Against? For 143, v. 1. Emergency procedures have been established. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the law amending and supplementing the Law on the execution of prison sentences. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. I find that, unanimously with 144 votes, an emergency procedure has been established. There have been no written objections to the agenda I have proposed with the call for the session, and this agenda shall be in accordance with Article 203(4). The Rules of Procedure are considered adopted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure could now be given only to those points which did not contain the draft agenda referred to the call for a session. Under points 14, 15, 22 and 23, I included: Proposal for a Decision on the 2008 Declaration, the year of the Croatian Red Cross in the Republic of Croatia, the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of members of the Committee on Ethics, Science, Higher Education, the Third Annual Report on the work of the National Council for the Monitoring of the Implementation of the National Corruption Prevention Programme, the October 2006 period. – October 2007, Report on the work of the Committee on Ethics and Science on Higher Education for the period from February 2006 to 1 January 2008. Any of the MPs object to including these points in the agenda? If not, I'd like to confirm that the agenda has been accepted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure, I should now publish a set agenda. I suggest how we've had practice so far, that, and I think you agree, I'm not reading the whole agenda but to announce that the agenda as I suggested in the final draft agenda has been accepted. Before moving to parliamentary issues, the president of the SDP club, Mr. Milanovic, asked for a word on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u438	Dear President, Your Honor. Parliaments in democracies speak at a time of peace and at a time of war, so to speak in the British Parliament during World War I live debate, a live debate, because the root words are answered. There are some things that are not spoken of in this House. I'll talk about it very briefly today. We have a problem. We have a problem in negotiations with the European Union. We have a problem interpreting some documents, some acts, some procedures, some failures. The government which has managed Croatia for the past four years, the government which manages Croatia and at this time. We all remember lively that during the coalition government this High House was respected and very often on issues that were important, less important or considered important than opposition, discussed and that the prime minister, then Prime Minister Ivica Racan, had submitted a report on these issues. From the current prime minister, Dr. Eve Sanader, we've rarely or ever heard of it. Now we think that the occasion for it is, and it's not to be called, to make a noise, because our goal is without any irony, and without any hidden thoughts, it's the same. We need to hear the truth so that we can work together on some of the things we believe in together. If we don't hear the data, who do we trust? Should we trust European ministers who have called us unanimously and warned us twice about ZERP? But the problem is much bigger than ZERP. If I hear a good and logical explanation from the Croatian prime minister, then I tend to trust him more than the European ministers, but we have not heard this explanation and this debate is hidden from this House and from the Croatian public. With that silence, we won't achieve anything. With that silence, we won't achieve anything. So I call on this session to be called on behalf of the SDP Club, to discuss it openly at this session, to keep those diplomatic fines that we know and cannot be spoken of publicly to themselves, but to talk about the problem. The problem must be discussed in every environment and community in which to live, otherwise the problem will not be solved. So who do we trust? Europe. A Europe that suggests that because of some of our acts or failures, we are endangering the course of negotiations or the prime minister. Until I hear it, I don't know, but when I hear the Prime Minister and I hear the opinion of the distinguished MPs on this side and on the other side, then we can move forward or forward if you want. But to move on, to go further, we need to talk about it, that's what Parliament does, at a time of war, and this time of peace. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u439	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. The president of the IDS Club, Mr. Damir Cain, also called.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u440	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Surely the question of ZERP is important, it is current, life-long, but I think that the issue of Croatia's international recognition of Kosovo is equally a life- and current issue. I believe that this issue should be entrusted to this Parliament and that it cannot be exclusively reserved for the government and the President of the Republic of Croatia. I therefore propose that the debate on the international recognition of Kosovo by the Republic of Croatia, as well as the debate on ZERP, should also be entrusted to Croatian lawmakers.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u441	Thank you very much. The president of the HDZ Club, Mr Andrija Hebrang, also called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u442	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Several amendments were made here, i.e. to include the agenda. I would warn that there is a planned procedure for including some item on the agenda and that there is no need to interrupt the regular work of the Parliament in the way that it is done to make it more substantively what is claimed, not at all true. All the key topics, all the key historical situations for the Croatian state, were discussed in this House. The remarks by Mr. Representatives in the ranks of SDP and the president of the club of MPs, that Prime Minister Sanader did not report this High House on the current events is incorrect, because in the past session he may not have followed through the media and was not present, Prime Minister Sanader reported every time he was asked to do so, and often on his own initiative about all important events. In this session he could not do so yet because this is the first operational session of this House, therefore any objection on the failure to express his views, the government's views on this House of High is unfounded because I cannot ask the Prime Minister to make his views publicly in this House before opening the session, he can do so only in another way. I am sure that even in these moments, if the need arises, the Prime Minister, on behalf of the Government, will express his views and that this High House will never be denied for the government's actions, for the government's intentions, with the fact that we need to know that there can be a public opinion only when the situation is crystal clear and when it can be discussed in terms of debate, rather than yet prejudge the conclusions. Therefore, every debate has its own way of bringing to the agenda its subject and demands, has its own time when it is presented, I am sure that the tradition of this government will be as it has been so far, and that is to report to the Croatian House and the Croatian public about everything that happens at the moment that is most favourable to the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u443	Thank you very much. We heard three club presidents. Of course, by procedure everything that is presented here and all proposals are addressed to the government or the Prime Minister. I should be heading towards the government, or the Prime Minister. As the Prime Minister is present here and the questions are raised, perhaps the Prime Minister would like to answer these questions in a few words. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Anto Djapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u444	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think this is a breach of the Rules of Procedure because we are turning the current clock into a controversy between the president of one or two clubs with the Prime Minister and all these questions that are raised here can be asked in the form of questions on the current clock. In such a way, we have been denied all of us who are waiting for order to ask questions on the current clock. So, there's a procedure you yourself said you can apply for, and then the government will assess whether or not you need to react to it. In this way, the Prime Minister will answer ten questions that many of us have not asked here today.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u445	Mr. Representative! You have not called upon the relevant article of the Rules of Procedure and I do not see where the Rules of Procedure has been injured here. If the president of a club asks to address the Croatian Assembly, it is my duty to give him my word. The other thing is whether the procedure should put on some agenda point, I agree with what you said, but it would not be a good idea to limit the right of clubs from the beginning, especially, as well as representatives individually to turn at the beginning of the session. Here, if the Prime Minister wants to answer these questions briefly, then we'll move on to what's right now, and that's agent issues. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u446	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! If so and if all the MPs and you agree, I am willing to talk about the situation with ZERP, I am willing to talk about the situation in negotiations with the European Union, but I also respect the fact that it is the time of the current morning and that we are not wasting time or that we are not wasting time on MPs who should be asking questions. As far as I'm concerned, I suggest we do the current morning. And we can do this topic if the clubs agree to start whenever you want. We're ready. We're not hiding anything. And what MP Hebrang said, I have repeatedly said, statistics were made in the Assembly on important issues at the invitation of one or another MP or the entire House than previous prime ministers did.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u447	Ladies and gentlemen. Before we move to the point of elections and appointments and resolutions, I am giving a half-hour break so that the Board of Elections and Appoints can complete their proposals that he has tabled here and end this agenda. So, a half-hour break and a selection and appointment committee. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, pursuant to Article 204(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I will propose to the Rules of Procedure to supplement the agenda of the 3rd session to the next points. First. Proposal for a State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008 with a Budget projection proposal for 2009 and 2010. - Proposed financial plans for 2008 with a projection proposal for 2009 and 2010, Croatian Waters, Croatian Highways, Croatian Roads, State Deposit Insurance Agency and Rehabilitation of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund. - Proposal for a national budget and financial plans for non-profit users for 2008 with a projection proposal for 2009 and 2010, consolidated. - Explanation of state budgets and financial plans for non-profit users for 2008 and projections for 2009 and 2010. Second. Final proposal of the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008, P.Z. No. 11. Third. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Media with the Final Proposal for the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E., No. 13. Fourth. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the World Health Organisation Framework Convention on Tobacco Control, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, P.Z.E., No. 12. Fifth. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Insurance with the Final Bill, Proposer of the SDP Representatives Club, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 8. Sixth. Proposal for a Law amending the Mandatory Health Insurance Act with the Final Proposal for a Law, Proposer of the SDP Advocacy Club, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. Nine. Seven. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Tax Act with the Final Proposal of the Law, Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. Ten. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt certain laws is subject to an urgent procedure. I note that, under points 3 and 4, those laws propose the adoption of an emergency procedure, but those laws bear the P.Z.E. mark, and on the application of the emergency procedure, in accordance with Rule 161 of the Rules of Procedure, do not vote. These are: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Media with the Final Proposal of the Law. And Law, Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the World Health Organisation Framework Convention to Control Tobacco, P.Z.E. No. 12. The proposal complements the agenda includes three laws that are proposed to be adopted by emergency procedure. And that: Law amending and supplementing the law on compulsory insurance contributions with the Final Proposal, Proposal for a Law amending compulsory health insurance with the Final Proposal for a Law. And the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax on Income Act with the Final Bill. All three suggest SDP. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of those laws? Yeah. Mr. Andrija Hebrang, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u449	Mr. President, we have an objection and we ask that the Emergency Procedure Act be not passed under paragraphs 5, 6 and 7 because, according to the Rules of Procedure, Article 59 does not meet the conditions for an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u450	Thank you. Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u451	Mr. President... the urgency of the proceedings, as no draft budget or accompanying laws has been submitted. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Some, though, won, one of two colleagues won. Or I guess they're waiting for the MPs to leave their homes so that Monday they come or Tuesday, and that the deadline runs in the Rules of Procedure. That's not the least bit correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u452	I'm notifying the MPs that today... National budget proposal delivered on the CD [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the CD, and on Saturday 23 February this means tomorrow it will be delivered to the boxes of the National Budget Proposal in writing as well as the Final Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008. ... [[/Intruder: On the CD?]] Go ahead, go ahead. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u453	It is not correct, so neither according to the Rules of Procedure nor in the spirit of the Rules of Procedure, that something is included in the agenda that the MPs did not receive. You are now announcing that by tomorrow, these materials will be delivered. It is known that the MPs are not all representatives from Zagreb. That they have obligations by their own units, by their constituents, according to their voters and logically and logically, and you know well that they will not have MPs, the grotesque MPs will be here tomorrow because they have nothing to do tomorrow. And they just sit here and wait for the delivery. to deliver the necessary materials. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u454	Thank you. Thank you. I am informing you, Madam Representatives, that the Rules of Procedure are not scheduled for MPs to be or not to be in Zagreb tomorrow. I can be and I can and I can't be you know. And the CD was delivered. Please, nice. We're going to the vote. Who is responsible for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Insurance with the Final Proposal of the Law? Who's in charge of an emergency procedure? Please count Are you the one who called for a hearing? [[Wait, so Mr. Hebrang answered.]] I put it to the vote. Who's in for an emergency procedure? Thank you. Who's against the emergency procedure? Who's against the emergency procedure? Thank you. [[The intruders don't understand.]] 41 for you. 79 against. An emergency procedure has not been accepted. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Mandatory Health Insurance Act with the Final Proposal of the Law? Who's in for an emergency procedure? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. 39 for it. 79 against. So no emergency procedures have been accepted. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Amendment Act and the Supplements of the Income Tax Act with the Final Proposal of the Law, P.Z. Number 10? Who's in charge of an emergency procedure? Thank you. Against? 37 for you. 79 against. An emergency procedure has not been accepted. Do any of the MPs have objections to other points proposed to supplement the agenda? Any of the MPs against the other proposed agenda points? There isn't. The completion of the agenda has been established. There was an objection to putting the budget on the agenda. Do you, who's in favour of putting the draft state budget on the agenda? Who's in? With... Thank you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Who's against it? Restraint? Thank you very much. The proposal for the introduction of the state budget was accepted by 79 for and 41 abstentions. So, You didn't vote, so... [[We're not abstentions.]] According to the Rules of Procedure, if MPs do not vote, they are considered abstentions. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! We just finished this part of our work in the Parliament. The session resumes at 9.30pm on Wednesday, most likely with the first item of the agenda, the 2008 budget debate. Thank you and rest well.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u457	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I will propose to the Rules of Procedure to supplement the agenda of the 3rd session to the next points. 1. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Community and the Republic of Croatia on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Policy Support Programme for the application of the Information and Communication Technologies of the Competitiveness and Innovation Framework Programme until 2013 with the final draft law, the emergency procedure. 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Mandatory Health Insurance Act with a final draft law, an emergency procedure. 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Pension Insurance Act with a final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. Number 17. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. For all three of these laws, it proposes that they be adopted according to an emergency procedure. I would like to point 3 to note that the law bearing the label P.Z.E. the application of the emergency procedure in accordance with Article 161; We don't vote on the rules of procedure. Who, for the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act with the Final Proposal of the Law, is not who it is. Yeah, that's not what we're voting on. Do any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of two other laws? There isn't. We're going to the vote. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Memorandum Confirmation Act? Who's in? Against? Restraint? I find that unanimously with the 121st vote for the agenda, this bill has been included in the emergency procedure. Who is responsible for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on compulsory health insurance with the final proposal for a law? Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that unanimously with 121 votes for and this law is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. The completion of the agenda has been established. I'm interrupting the session. The follow-up is tomorrow at 10 pm with the agenda Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the World Health Organisation Framework Convention on Tobacco Control, so Proposal for a Decision on the 2008 Declaration of the Croatian Red Cross, so Report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, etc. Resume tomorrow at 10 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u458	We're moving on with our work. On behalf of the club, the esteemed representative of Picula.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u459	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament allow me to point out one fact on behalf of the SDP club and make a proposal. Namely, today's stay, Olli Rehn, Commissioner for the Enlargement of the European Union in Zagreb, as well as his talks with Prime Minister Sanader, better say the results of these talks really showed how much justification we had when we asked for the inclusion as part of the agenda for the meeting of the debate on the application of the protected eco-fishing band, i.e. the implications of the application of the state of negotiations with the European Union. Let Mr. Vice President just quote what Mr. Ollie Rehn said after meeting with Prime Minister Sanader. He said ZERP is like a cloud above the clear Croatian sky. If not resolved in a short time, it could cause a serious delay in the accession process, said Rehn, who in 2008 rated Croatia's decisive one. If someone's statement by Mr. Rehn is not enough argument that we wanted to open a debate on ZERP in the Croatian Parliament, let me quote the Prime Minister. Namely, the Prime Minister said on the same occasion, and I quote: "We will have to agree that there could be a negotiation blockade and we will have to decide something else." The end of the quote. Mr Vice-President, I think these two quotations speak enough about the seriousness of the situation in which Croatia is continuing at the moment, and I therefore propose that we continue the work of the Croatian Parliament very soon with the report by the Prime Minister on the state of affairs so that we can indeed decide here in the Assembly on things that obviously have a fatal character for a long-term goal, which is Croatia's membership in the European Union. Of course, such situations have been repeated or occurred earlier in the recent past and we have had the opportunity to testify that Prime Minister Racan always responded positively to the demands of the opposition then and came to the Croatian Parliament to submit a report on the state of affairs depending on the moment Croatia was in place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u460	Thank you, Your Honor. Just to remind you that under item 10 of the agenda of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's report on the activities related to negotiations with the European Union and the protected ecological fishing band ZERP. Therefore, it's in the agenda. And the moment the conditions come, when it comes to order, they will be discussed here in this High House. On behalf of the club, there was already one who spoke on the same wheel twice.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u461	I won't talk twice. I'm looking for a break for the club for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u462	Is anyone else looking for a break? HDZ, IDS, HNS. Thank you. We'll continue at 15 hours and 15 minutes. I'd like a representative of the SDP club to take your word for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u464	... colleagues and colleagues. [[Specially enabled.]] As I am demanding, here in a time delay, the representatives' clubs are determined according to the proposal we have made, which is to start immediately with a very serious debate that really has a special significance for Croatia's political life, which is a debate on the state of negotiations between Croatia and the European Union on future membership, so I believe that, in the meantime, we all have found enough reason to justify this kind of procedure. So let me just remind you that speaking here about the Government of the Republic of Croatia's programme for the next term of office, we have not only had the opportunity to hear that one of the most important issues that we must do in the Assembly in the next few years is adaptation, harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the legislation of the European Union, in order to make it easier for our country to join the European Union as quickly as possible. Therefore, I think that we can all unisonly conclude that there is no more important business than the debate on those legal proposals that come to our clubs with the label of the draft law of Europe, P.Z.E. However, our efforts, and we have heard from officials who lead the Croatian Parliament that we will step up the maximum effort to discuss and adopt these laws, all of this can come into question, all of this can come into question if we do not get out of the situation in which the negotiations are held at the moment. That it is really not fiction or inventing just one political option I have led two people who are currently the most relevant to publicly show where Croatia is today in negotiations with the European Union. I quoted Olli Rehn, Commissioner of the European Commission for Enlargement, who said that the clouds had already been clouded over Croatia and that he was already considering blocking the negotiations, which Prime Minister Sanader replied to but not by rejecting those claims but by reminding me once again, the prime minister said very clearly, we will have to agree that there might be a blockade of the negotiations and we will have to decide something else. My colleagues and colleagues! I believe this is indeed a very clear indicator where we are in negotiations with the European Union today. We're stuck. I said that for many reasons not because of intuition but because of the knowledge of matter, we asked for a point in the Parliament's agenda to discuss this issue. Indeed, the item was entered on February 27th. However, something is happening that has been seen several times in the work of the Croatian Parliament. Namely, by including new agenda points, the one we've been looking for on the agenda is pushing backwards. Here, and only last night were subsequently included three new agenda points on whose relevance I don't want to doubt, but the one we proposed was delayed. And let me finish. Allow me when we asked Prime Minister Sanader to show the state of affairs at the current morning to warn him that the situation is alarming, he said about, not roughly, but directly quote: "... and we can do this topic if the clubs agree to start whenever you want. We're ready, we're not hiding anything." In holding that the prime minister did not lie to the MPs, I ask that this item of the agenda that exceeds the narrow party interests of a party discusses in this House immediately, which we have already had the opportunity to see in recent history, or perhaps, at the latest, better to prepare ourselves to continue with the work of the Croatian Parliament by explaining and discussing this point immediately the next morning. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u465	Thank you. Club IDS, the esteemed representative of Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u466	Dear Mr. Vice President! We are asking for a debate as clearly as Mr Picula would say, but we are looking for an immediate debate on Kosovo as well. I'll say it out loud. We didn't need the ZERP gentlemen in 2003 either. We didn't need ZERP in 2007. ZERP is not protected in the way Croatian politics does. ZERP is not protected by warships, if we have them at all, or by the Navy, but ZERP is protected by good neighbouring policy and Adriatic orientation. A very simple policy that where there is a Croatian fisherman, there will be no Italian or there will be no Slovenian. I said ZERP is protected by the Adriatic orientation, not by this strictness training that has lasted in Croatia for three or four years. Second thing I want to say, gentlemen. ZERP Croatia cannot conduct, monitor or consume, and the best example of this ship is a Turkish, hellish ship that burned near Rovinj. Well, at this point, we don't even have two kilometers of floaters to threaten that ship so it doesn't run out of oil. The County of Istria has certainly a fire system on land that is better than many Western European regions, but at sea we have absolutely nothing. And that fire on that ship convinced me that if we don't want the Italian fisherman flying into the territory of the Croatian ZERP, then we need to sit at the table and that control over these fishermen must be carried out by the Italian police or the navy in their ports so that they do not later reach the territorial waters of the Republic of Croatia. However, one such debate may go theoretically but certainly not in Parliament or in reality. What I also want to say is that it has proved to be as Croatia cannot implement ZERP that many are exploiting both left and right the problem. I'll say one example. 14.12.2007, Mr Mimica's interview in "New List" when he says, "ZERP is as important as joining the European Union." That's not how Mr. Picula can be. I repeat once again for the third time that Croatia cannot monitor ZERP. And if anyone would like to keep an eye on him, then it's me from Istria, Istrian, because I know our Istrian shores are the most vulnerable. However, I would also like to say without ZERP, Croatia was, yes. Without the European Union, Croatia will not be able to do so. Croatia does not depend as much on the ZERP at this time as it depends on the European Union. At this moment, Croatia is living, I dare say, from the European Union and not from the ZERP. What's the problem? The problem is in Croatia's unbelief. One is signed, one is given up later. Let's remember... It's Drnovsek's ruckus. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Slovenians will never go under the agreement, no one in Croatia can return to the terms of the agreement because it would be concessions in favour of Slovenia over 150km of square seas. And finally, in second place, it is this signature of Hide Biscovic, which we think does not produce legal effects, but it is a lie. Principles in the world function significantly differently than they do here. We can play this game in front of election campaigns, but we can't fool the world with that kind of action. And I'll say one more thing. Do not think that ZERP does not suffer Croatia. First of all, Istra suffers. The border crossings of Požena near Buzet, Plovdiv down near Umag or Buja are lifted, the Schengen regime is being introduced, we are on the verge of the season from which Istria lives, but the state budget lives even more. In Istria, watch out for me once more a thousand times, I'll tell you about this constituency. The first economic branch is not tourism, it is only the third. Our industry comes first. We will be blocked before the season of border crossings, they are blocked already and I really call on the Croatian government to speak with Janša openly without any scruples and simply return this transport to Istria to those positions we were in before 1.3 this year. What follows us in the season will one word, gentlemen, be hell, keep that in mind. Let us open this debate, open relations or debate on relations with Slovenia and try not to hurt Istria and the Croatian economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u467	Thank you. Anything harmful to Croatia is certainly harmful to Istria as well. The HNS Club is a respected representative of Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u468	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. There, it happens that opposition clubs have an advantage over the ruling, although in the order of the application, it was a little different, but it doesn't matter. When we discussed and delayed the ZERP decision last time in this House, then the Croatian People's Party club supported that decision and noted our proposal to conclude that, with the strengthening of the fishing fleet, the introduction of coast guard and anything related to the application of the ZERP mechanisms themselves, it is very important that we use this year's postponement for the maximum attempt to negotiate, bilateral arrangements with the neighbours so that we are not in a situation that after 1.1.2008 again in the Assembly we have to discuss the postponement of the application of ZERP. I repeated this warning at the last session of the Parliament and I said that it seems to me that someone from this pay phone will have to explain to the Croatian Parliament why Croatia cannot apply parliament's decision on ZERP and then it was said out of the question. When we discussed it, at least I don't know if anyone else in this room knew about that record the secretary of state signed and then became a bone in our throats. About a month ago, two Croatian governments sent "non paper" to the European Union. What it says, we don't know. I would hate to see that document in a month, two of them be like that record and Hidaet Biscevic's bone in Croatia's throat when it comes to ZERP. Today's statement by the prime minister and on the subject of talks with Olli Rehn points to the fact that the matter is really serious. So if so, if it is Parliament's decision that causes the problem of continuing Croatia's negotiations for full membership of the European Union and if that point is on the agenda and the prime minister has not objected to the opening of this debate, indeed after Mr Rehn's previous statements, I do not see any reason why this would really not be the first point of our debate tomorrow morning. And I want to believe that the government prepared the report in the moment or started preparing the moment that this item was included in the agenda. Look at the paradox. We have practically not even begun to implement the measures of ZERP as evidenced and slow in whether without amending the law, we can punish foreign fishermen. We didn't form a coast guard or buy ships, and we already have problems. And imagine that we really started to implement all the measures of ZERP from 1.1. A topic that does not suffer an emotional debate because it is a serious topic, but in my opinion, it does not suffer a delay in the debate. Only if these two statements are in the position of preparing the Croatian public and Croatian citizens that we will soon have to give up ZERP as a whole. Only under these conditions do I think we can postpone the debate until Christmas. If it is a really serious issue, a serious thing like Prime Minister Sanader confirmed today is the place of the first such debate in parliament rather than in the media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u469	Thank you. The HDZ Club is a respected representative and club president Dr. Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u470	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. ZERP is a topic that stands before Croatia in order to reach our final goal, which is to join the full membership of the European Union and this ZERP did not become a subject today by visiting Mr Olli Rehn. The ZERP is a topic from the day it was adopted by the government in 2003 in the government of Prime Minister Racan and when it was delayed by the same act. So the government that proposed it means ZERP immediately delayed it by a conscious hot potato served by the public. That sound of politicizing with ZERP is unfortunately being dragged all the time. I know that everyone's goal is to join the European Union. We all have the same goal of applying the ZERP, but to that end, we have to be careful not to spoil the path that we take with some kind of scrawny interests and not pull that topic out when it suits us. Why am I saying that? Because today's visit to Mr Olli Rehn has not changed in Croatia compared to ZERP, and in Croatia compared to the European Union, nothing at all. Read his statement, he said he was glad that Croatia could still meet everything by the beginning of 2009 to meet all the conditions for entry into the European Union. And there's three things on that road. One of them is ZERP. The second is the transformation in the judiciary, the third is the fight against corruption, etc. So ZERP is one of the problems ahead of us. The government of the Republic of Croatia has the problem in its resolution programme, contacts and consultations are daily. As you know, the Prime Minister has called on interested neighbouring friendly countries to discuss the ZERP as the European Union has decided and this is bilateral to find a solution. Croatia will not give up on ZERP, but will not give up its entry into the European Union either. If an alternative is put in front of us, or-or, then that will be decided by this High House. And with that in mind, at your request, at the request of this High House, the prime minister has requested that the debate be held and is held as the 10th item on our agenda and is scheduled for next week. I think that as responsible representatives, I think that the government as a responsible government, I think that Croatia as a responsible Croatia should not change the dynamics of its work based on the statement of one respected international official and friend of Croatia. If we have a strategy drawn up called ZERP and a strategy called entering the European Union, we do not need to change our strategy based on a single statement, change the time of decision making, what is said in a beautiful English language. During this time, a strategic period is also scheduled for a debate in front of this high house, it is included in the agenda. And I'm asking you to let the government do its job in peace until it comes out with a report here. And then we're the ones who'll tell you what and how and how. So it's the Parliament that will make the final decisions. It is in Croatia's interest not to disturb the good path on which the Government of the Republic of Croatia is on both the ZERP and the conditions for the European Union. So I would ask that we be solid and that one inter-party consensus that exists for the entry into the European Union... I have not yet finished my colleagues, forgive me, and that a consensus as inter-partyly as it exists to join the European Union should not be disrupted by Mr Rehn's statement but rather by the fact that the statement should be our incentive to continue to go in accordance with the earlier agreement together and complexly into the European Union. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u471	I thank the honourable representative. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Habek.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u472	Dear Vice President, I would like to correct Mr. Hebrang's incorrect claim that this is not alarming and something like that, or that Olli Rehn has not said anything that should be our concern. Here, I'm going to quote right now, right off the internet Mr. Sanader's statement: "We'll have to agree that there might be a negotiation blockade and we'll have to decide something else.". Mr. Hebrang, if that's not alarming, I don't know what it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u473	Thank you. That's how we exhausted all the club reports. Therefore, the agenda under point 10 of the SDP Club's proposal was included, item of the agenda of the Government Report of the Republic of Croatia, activities related to negotiations with the European Union and to the protected ecological and fisheries belt of the ZERP. So when you get the conditions, that means over the next week this point comes to the agenda. Let's move on with the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u474	The final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act should now go in line, but we do not have the conditions for this under Article 205(2), we hope to discuss this quickly. The final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Obligation of Health Insurance also does not have any conditions under Article 205(2), as the home working body has not discussed it. Then the Final Proposal for the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Community and the Republic of Croatia on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the policy support programme for the change of information and communication technologies of the Competitiveness and Innovation Framework Programme, also tried to have a quorum so it failed, and also on the basis of Article 205(2), we must postpone. A mid-term report by the Croatian National Bank for the first half of 2007, the government did not give an opinion, and the National Bank asked us because they were absent this week, to move it to the next week, so we have no proposings and we have no government opinion and that goes on. It would now come in turn looking at the 10th item of the agenda - - A report by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the activities related to negotiations with the European Union and the protected ecological and fisheries band (ZERP), Proposer of SDP Representatives Club of the SDP Club of Representatives is not here, we have no conditions to discuss, therefore we will postpone this debate when conditions are obtained. What? ... When the conditions are met, so when the SDP's Club of Representatives returns to the assembly. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u478	Mr. President of the Parliament. 10 minutes ago you announced a report by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the activities related to negotiations with the European Union and the protected economic and fisheries belt, and found that, since there is no Club of Representatives of the SDP, no debate can be refused. The SDP representative club asked you today to allow us to hold this debate with the presence of the prime minister, we did not get any answers from you and we sat in our club. Your associates know where the SDP club is. We are here now, but we are assessing that the problem of the debate without a written report and without the presence of the President of the Croatian Government who, at the current hour of the beginning of this session, said that he would give an opening explanation, I do not know how questionable it is, but we are now asking you what we are going to do with that agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u479	Here are the ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the point that has been today, the proposed points actually cleared the agenda for today's session. Point 5, point 6, point 7, point 8, point 10, point 12, and point 14, as well as points 15, 16, 17. are not subject to discussion today under Article 205(2). Rules of Procedure. That's why I'm going to announce the following. Since I have received assurances from the chairman of the Committee, points 5 and 6 will be held tomorrow after the parent committee delivers opinions. Point 7 was tried by the chairman of the Committee on Information as a parent board, however, as I was informed there was no quorum on the board, so I propose that the chairman of the Committee ensure, if possible, that this point could enter the regular procedure. With regard to point 8 of the Croatian National Bank report, we do not have two conditions. We don't have the government's opinion and we don't have a proposing who asked that, since his officials are out of Croatia, so I understood, mostly, to postpone next week. As regards the 10th point of the Report of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the activities related to negotiations with the European Union for a protected eco-fishing band, there were neither any proposing nor any representatives of the Government in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u480	The promoter's here now.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u481	So that's why I suggested, and I'm going to suggest that this agenda item goes on the first day of next week, that means on Wednesday, and I'm going to try to make sure that the government is present in a representative way, so that this item of the agenda is properly discussed and concluded. In view of the 12th item of the agenda, we also did not have to do with Article 205(2). Rules of Procedure of conditions for discussion as we do not have for the 14th item of the agenda. For 15, 16 and 17, we do not have the government's opinion, so we will ask the government to send an opinion, preferably. And, of course, the committees didn't discuss it. So that's two reasons. The status of the Agency... The media also doesn't have the government's opinion. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what we're gonna ask for to be delivered. So we've listed a dozen agenda points here that have no conditions for discussion. I believe that no point should be considered to have permanent no conditions but to allow these conditions to be secured. So I announce that the 10th item of the agenda will also enter the agenda, and I think on Wednesday, the next time we continue the session of the Parliament. Tomorrow I hope the MPs here often question when this will come, when it will come to order. Even a gypsies woman with cards couldn't do what was once said to be possible, because it's been changed ten times a day since there's either no conditions either for this reason or for that reason or for no answer or for more deputies. It is impossible to predict how long a item of the agenda will last. Therefore, I ask you not to expose me to some questions when I am unable to answer, because whatever I answer can be shown incorrectly for the next hour. So, here's the deal. We hope that in the morning at 9.30 p.m. we will begin in line with the 5th item of the agenda Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act, then on Health Insurance and so on. We think the Parliament's gonna end around 13:30. Whether this debated item of the agenda will vote will we still see from the circumstances whether there will be conditions. If not, we'll postpone it as we delayed Friday some agenda points for last night's decision. There is no reason to be excited because the agenda will go in order as it is written here, although you know that, according to Article 203 of the Parliament, the agenda can change its agenda in a way that leaves out certain topics from the proposed agenda or complements the agenda of new topics, etc. So, I will make maximum restrictive use of the opportunities I have in my Rules of Procedure that and with one good wish that the work of the Parliament should take place within the frameworks provided for by the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u482	Mr. President! The seat is still going on. The SDP club is present, but the point of 10th cannot be maintained without the presence of the president of the Croatian government and it is essential that without its presence, the point cannot be maintained. It is also evident that this is an important issue for the Republic of Croatia that the Government is very much emphasising the importance of these issues and that is why we believe that it is important in the SDP club to discuss this issue in the Croatian Parliament, because we can try to find common solutions. And what we have been expecting for 15 days is this discussion of the importance of the topic and, of course, I repeat this topic does not depend on the SDP club, but on the president of the Croatian Government. If that's so important, I think it's possible to set an appointment and accept your appointment Wednesday morning. And that is why, because of the importance of the topic I would say the problems that are in Croatia, we wanted this topic to be as soon as possible. And we waited patiently for fifteen days for an answer. We didn't even get it today. Here, we got it tonight and we're happy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u483	We didn't get anything but I went to the agenda points and when I got to the 10th point as well as these others, I found that there were no conditions for discussion, because neither is there a promoter nor a government present. Thus, no one wanted in any way to seek an excuse for the item of the agenda to be skipped, removed, delayed, and so on. I have announced myself that this item of the agenda will come in my opinion on Wednesday, of course I have to carry out appropriate consultations and I hope with the presence of both the promoters and the competent members of the government. Here. Thank you very much. Now in the morning we continue the session at 9 and... Here you go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u484	President of the Parliament! Since you said that the 7th item of the agenda cannot be discussed because the parent board, the Committee on Information and Information and Media is not...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u485	That's how I got the notice.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u486	Discussed at my session, I must warn you as President of the Parliament and inform you that a committee meeting has been convened for the day...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u487	How could he...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u488	That a committee meeting with that item on the agenda was convened within the day. That four MPs from the ranks of the parliamentary minority and one MP from the parliamentary majority were present at the session. Two HDZ deputies left shortly before the agenda was established without having had any other committee scheduled. It is impossible to hold committee meetings if there is an obstruction by the parliamentary majority that is coming to committee meetings. Therefore, as President of the Parliament, you must know that today's session has not been held because of the obstruction of HDZ representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u489	I'm not here to explain why the agenda item didn't go into debate today counting the MPs as many as were missing from the opposition, that's not my thing. That's what you'll do in the reports or so on. warn. Normally the opposition was all then enough was one representative as the seventh, so you could discuss it. So it wasn't all you, either. I don't want to discuss it, I'm just warning all the MPs, regardless of the party clubs, that they are obliged to attend committee meetings, that they are obliged to participate, and that is equally valuable and important for the work and successful work of the Parliament as well as discussions at the plenary session. So it's hard for me to say it right from the start, but if it is, for one reason or another, to avoid taking part in committee sessions, as you can see, it can slow down the work of a plenary session. Today it is seven, eight points of the agenda because of the inability to discuss it, because they have not discussed either the committees or there are no proposings or there is no government. So, every duty in the Parliament is equally important and I pray and here I join all those and also the chairman of the Information Committee that it is the duty of all MPs to take part in the committee session and there is no justification for any escape or God-given obstruction intended for the Committee's work. Mrs. Vardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u490	Mr. President, I have raised the table on "The Correction of the Inaccuracy" and I ask Mr. President-in-Office of the Honorable Fellow Trazic to make such a difficult qualification that today, at the board meeting, most have obstructed the work of the Media Committee, and I ask him to withdraw such a difficult qualification because it was the next one. Yesterday we received an invitation during the session at a committee meeting on 6 March 2008 on Wednesday at 9 pm and did not know whether the session was held or whether the session was scheduled to take place on Thursday. During the day, we received a call today at 13.30 p.m. It is not taken into account that the members of the board are, individual representatives are members of several committees and due to overlapping the agreed and agreed term normally that we cannot provide quorum. And another thing, the present members of the board from the Croatian Democratic Community were and were waiting for the president, and because of their other commitments they had announced they had to leave. As a result, there was no quorum, and I think the MP can withdraw such a difficult qualification that most have obstructed the work of the board and thus prevented the work of the plenary session.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u491	Thank you. I understand, but I don't intend to open up here as a court hearing and now prove this or who he was, who he wasn't, and why he wasn't. I think it's enough that we've said to invite all the board members to participate in the committee's work and that they're not looking for excuses for not having been to the board's meeting. That's an important question. And I would also ask the committee presidents to try to find with colleagues another who eventually failed at the same time to move that time into a decent time difference so that they could participate because normally that a representative if he is a member of three committees at the same time could not be but only on one committee. So we're not going to discuss who, why and how. I wasn't when I got the notice on why the board wasn't held, there was no quorum, and that was the only reason I didn't have a quorum, so no matter why it wasn't there, because it wasn't there. So, I hope that we will be all responsible and correct in the performance of our parliamentary duties because we are going to the public's one dominant opinion that parliamentary deputies are not working because they are watching parliamentary MPs only at plenary sessions whether or not they are, and the question of the committee is the question of clubs that is also the work of the Parliament. This is kind of being minimized in public and if we continue to do so because of the non-participation of committees, then we will confirm such an opinion that the government in the public actually does not work enough, so that such opinions are somewhat justified. I therefore ask that we be all responsible here, and I hope that on this one example that we have today, that we will respect all opinions, attitudes in accordance with the rules of procedure, and that we will not eliminate or excavate any point of the agenda in a way that is in the sense of some intention and the like. So, please, we have conditions, please let the committees work. I ask the promoters to be present when they suggest that the government also be present and give their opinions and then the Parliament will work normally. I thank you all for your patience for listening to me in this explanation. Now I welcome you. Tomorrow at 9.30 p.m., we'll proceed with the Assembly session. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! I hope you've rested and we'll continue with the session. I warmly welcome you all. On the benches, you have a clear agenda to help you find things easier. You are also given a proposal to supplement the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! In accordance with Article 204(2), I will propose to the Rules of Procedure to supplement the agenda of the 3rd session of the Croatian Parliament with the following points. - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Macedonia on the Protection of the Rights of the Croatian Minority in the Republic of Macedonia and the Macedonian Minority in the Republic of Croatia with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, P.Z. Number 23, 2. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Institutions with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Number 20, 3. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Biocidal Products Act with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Number 19, 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Seed Act, fruit material and the recognition of agricultural plant varieties with the final proposal of the law, is an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Number 18, 5. Proposal for a Act supplementing the Law on Pharmacy with a final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z. Number 22, 6. Proposal for a Law amending the Police Act with a final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z. Number 24, 7. Proposal for a Decision amending and supplementing the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, Proposer of the Committee on the Constitution, 8. Proposal for a national pedagogical standard of preschool education and education, 9. Proposal for a state pedagogical standard of primary education system, 10. Proposal for a national pedagogical standard of the secondary education and education system, 11. Proposal for a Trade Act, first reading, P.Z. Number 21, 12. Report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2007, 13. Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the IDS, first reading of P.Z. Number 14, 14. Imitation, Names, Resolutions, 12 / 15 The Mandate-Immunity Commission report. Article 205 of the Rules of Procedure lays down first that a proposal for a specific law adopted under an urgent procedure is to be decided. The laws proposed to be adopted under the emergency procedure are listed under points 1 to 6. I note that under points 2, 3, 4 of those laws, which bear the P.Z.E. mark, we do not vote on the application of the emergency procedure in accordance with Rule 161 of the Rules of Procedure. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the laws referred to in points 1, 5 and 6? There isn't. Are we going to the vote? Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Macedonia on the Protection of the Rights of the Croatian Minority in the Republic of Macedonia and the Macedonian Minority in the Republic of Croatia with the final proposal of the Law, that is, P.Z. Number 23? Who is to be included in the urgent procedure of this proposal to confirm the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Macedonia? Thank you very much. Does anyone mind? I find that with 102 votes, therefore unanimously, this proposal has been accepted. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law supplementing the Law on Pharmacy with the final proposal of the Law, P.Z. Number 22, emergency procedure too? Thank you. Do you mind? I find that 102 votes unanimously accepted this proposal. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Police Act, P.Z. Number 24? Thank you. Do you mind? 66 for, 36 against. And this law accepted to enter the procedure by emergency procedure. Do any of the MPs have objections to other points proposed to supplement the agenda? There isn't. The completion of the agenda has been established.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u493	Dear MPs and honourable MPs, allow me to carry out before continuing our work on the agenda in accordance with Article 204(2). I will propose to the Rules of Procedure to supplement the agenda of the third session of the Croatian Parliament with the following points. Proposal for a law amending the Insurance Statutory Act with an increased duration, with a final draft law, a quick procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 26. Second. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Rights of Pension Insurance of Active Military Persons, Police Officers and Authorised Officials, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.E. No. 29. Third. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Personal Data, with the Final Proposal for the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 28. Fourth. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 25. Fifth. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Mandatory Relations, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 31. Sixth. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Austria on police cooperation, with the Final Proposal for the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. Thirty-two. Seven. Proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the United Nations Peace Mission at the UNDOF. Eight. Proposal for a law on free legal aid, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 27. And the ninth. Proposal for a Law on Areas and Seats of Courts, First Reading, P.Z.E. No. 30. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt certain laws is subject to an urgent procedure. Under points one to six, the laws proposed to be adopted under an emergency procedure are listed. I note that under points two, three, four and five of those laws that bear the code P.Z.E. and in the application of the emergency procedure pursuant to Article 161(1); We don't vote on the rules of procedure. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of the laws of those points under points one and six? There isn't. We're going to the vote. First. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments to the Statutory Act with an increased duration, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. Twenty-six, raise your hand. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. I find that with 58 for, 34 against this bill is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is the first and second reading of the P.Z. for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Austria on Police Cooperation, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure. No. 32? Who wants to raise a hand? Thank you. Who's against it? I find that unanimously this law is included in the agenda by an emergency procedure with 92 votes in favour. Do any of the MPs have objections to other proposed points for supplementing the agenda? There isn't. The completion of the agenda has been established. I should read the whole agenda one more time, but we've already read it once. Thank you. I ask the board presidents to try to work on as many laws as possible today to put them on the agenda and discuss them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u494	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! We begin by asking questions to the Government or to a single member of the Government. The current morning is held at the beginning of each session before the first item of the agenda. Allow me to repeat some of the rules of the Rules of Procedure here because of the new representatives. We won't have to do that at the next sessions. In the current morning, MPs organised at representatives' clubs can ask a total of forty questions. And independent representatives who are not elected on the political party list, representatives of national minorities who are not organised in a club of MPs and one political party representative who do not have a club of representatives can ask questions at each other's session. The number of questions that representatives of a particular club may ask shall be determined by the proportion of members of a particular club in relation to the total number of representatives in such a way that the number of members of a particular club is divided by four, with the calculation of the result of 0.50 and more adjusted to more. Representatives shall issue oral parliamentary questions by written notice no later than 24 hours before the start of the session of the Assembly. Written announcements contain the name and last name, etc. This is in my opinion you shouldn't. This is the most important thing that I wanted to rebuild at the beginning of the session, or for some of the first time, and read it. A representative can ask one question. The question can't last longer than two minutes. Please, I want to make a special point. The answer to the asked question usually lasts two minutes. If this is due to the complexity of the question, the answer may take up to four minutes. The representative may express satisfaction and dissatisfaction with the answer to the parliamentary question by giving reasons for up to one minute. If unsatisfactory with the answer, the representative may request that the Government or the minister provide a written reply. It has often been stated here whether or not he was satisfied or unsatisfactory to ask questions again, qualifications, etc. I think that should be avoided, rather than minding the business provision exactly as it says. During the current morning, the representative cannot request a word to respond to the alleged or correct incorrect allegations raised in the parliamentary question of another representative or, by replying to the parliamentary question, by the President or a member of the Government. Here, these are the needs in my opinion of the explanation. And we move on to the current morning and ask questions. The first is Mr. Denesh Shaw's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u495	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Parliament, Prime Minister, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Before asking a question to Mr. Culture Minister, allow me just one sentence. Since I am reporting for the first time, I would like to express my great pleasure and honor here that as a representative of the Hungarian national minority I can speak in this High House, the Croatian Parliament. I'd like to ask a specific question now. It refers to the status and material position of the Reformed Christian Church of Hungarians in the Republic of Croatia. The more there is a process of consolidation and reforming relationships. And I think we should solve this problem with common efforts. I'd just like that. And here I would also point out in the end that, on my part, except that I represent the interests of the Hungarian national minority in Croatia, I will try to make the best of myself that the good neighbourly relations that exist between my home country of Hungary and the Republic of Croatia are even better. And in that sense, I'm going to make a lot of effort. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u496	Thank you very much. Answer Mr. Culture Minister Bozo Bishop. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u497	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Representative. The status issues of religious communities were settled in the 2002 Law on the position of religious communities and the 2004 Government of the Republic of Croatia Conclusion. The reformed Christian church in Croatia since the 16th century is one of those historical churches that was as the law and said and acted before '41. year, but the Hungarian Reforming Christian Church in Croatia was founded by a priest who was a member of the Reformed Christian Church in Croatia in '99. years... Janosh. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And, of course, under the conditions prescribed by the law and by the government's conclusion, that church does not meet those conditions. On the one hand, however, these are the conditions that it worked until 41 and, on the other hand, the number of believers that the government should be to be able to conclude, it is registered but cannot conclude a contract with the government and, of course, not all of those legal effects that otherwise arise. When it comes to this, all I can say is that they are being re-run, we have reported that negotiations are being held again on the unification of this reforming Christian church of Hungarians in Croatia together with the reformed Christian church headed by Bishop Lang and I hope that this will end well. That would definitely solve the problem again.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u498	Thank you. Mr. Agent Denesh Shaw. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u499	Thank you very much. I'm satisfied.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u500	Thank you. It is Mrs. Ivanka Roksandić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u501	Thank you. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Croatian Prime Minister, gentlemen members of the Croatian Government. I refer my question to the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, Mr Bozidar Pankretić. Mr. Minister, these days, the eyes of our agricultural producers were against the Kutin Petrochemium, which was forced to toll new prices on average by 44% due to the collection of basic raw materials. This certainly surprised the farmers most before the spring harvest. In the conversation that you held with the Deputy Prime Minister Mr Polancec, an agreement was reached on a medium price of artificial fertiliser. Are you satisfied with the agreement reached on the increase in mineral fertiliser prices at this mentioned meeting with the representatives of Petrokemia?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u502	Minister of Agriculture Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u503	Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Representative. Of course, it is difficult to say that one can express any satisfaction when it comes to the collection. I think that the Croatian public and you MPs were also familiar with what efforts the Croatian government made to in some way curb the prices of particularly basic agricultural and food products in order not to escalate a particular collection, so I can say... has certainly affected the overall standard of living of our citizens. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] Of course, I was caught with the announcement of Petrokemia in Kutina, and we called an immediate meeting in the government on February 11th. I'd say the meeting was a lot and arduous for those of Petrokemia and I'd say Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Polancec and myself. I think we need to be aware of the situation that is unfortunately happening on the world market and it concerns certain collections of basic raw materials that are used to produce artificial fertilisers. I'll point out that the search for Petrochemy was like you said 44% of the average collection of artificial fertilisers. In this section, urea collection was required 20%, i.e. 15%, and MPK nitrogen fertilisers were combined between 54% and 78%. By considering in detail all the options that are ahead of Petrochemy at the expense of internal costs to see what it is possible to do at this point on everything that the government itself has agreed that at this point, the average addition is 19%, which I can say is more than twice as much as the one announced by Petrochemy. I can say that this is in a certain way what it was possible to achieve at this point. Of course, I'd be the luckiest guy if there wasn't even a pick-up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u504	Thank you. Ms. Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u505	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I hope that we, as Government, will continue to monitor developments in the raw materials market because it will certainly affect the business success of Petrochemy at the end of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u506	Thank you. It's Mr. Agent Ante Kotromanović's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u507	Thank you very much. President of the Parliament, Prime Minister, members of the government. I will refer my question to Ms. Defence Minister and the intergenerational solidarity of Jadranka Kosor. Today, the Ministry of Defence and intergenerational solidarity on its list has about 500 thousand defenders of all kinds. It is obvious that one part does not belong to war heroes, warriors who have fought all the battles of the Homeland War on their backs, which has shown us the actions of the Croatian Republic MUP in Split called "Diagnosis 1 and 2". The question for the lady is who is all responsible for this terribly large... The defense attorney? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When will the defence register be put to the attention of the Croatian public, and why is the Ministry of Defence opposed? Is that the criminalization of the Homeland War? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u508	Thank you. Madam Vice President Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u509	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Mr. Representative. You've asked a lot of questions, but I'll start with what seems most important to me. You're asking who's responsible for the number of defenders. Mr. Representative, you'd have to know that as a Croatian defender. They are responsible if it is possible to speak of responsibility or decide better by all those who have the power to sign the Croatian defenders who participated in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia in the years of war, therefore the commanders, or all those who participated in the process. None of the Croatian defence ministers, therefore neither Mr. Njavro nor Mr. Pancic, nor I in the previous administration, nor in this term have we in any way related to giving status to Croatian defenders, so with the signing of documents that I repeat to people once again that participated in the defence and liberation of Croatia have obtained the status of Croatian defenders. It is true that the number of those who received these statuses was not known until the arrival of Prime Minister Sanader's government. In fact, there have been attempts and in the previous term of the coalition government of Mr. Racan to finally get out of the drawers all these signatures, to unite and to reach the final number of defenders. However, since it obviously seemed to someone to be too hot a potato, the drawers were closed and locked. However, since our Government, among other projects for Croatian defenders, decided to set up the Croatian Defence Fund and to enter the most important shares of the INA and HT, we had to finish, this was one of the reasons, the register of Croatian defenders in order to know who had the right to participate in the Croatian Defence Fund. And we came in combing, cleaning up all of the data, uniting to which we came, that is to say, we came to the MRLs and the MUP and we came to the figures that we published in 2005. The Croatian defenders' register here I want to inform you that it is finally finished by some Croatian defenders starting the proceedings, some of them getting them, and we are here, and we have finished this big, hard, sensitive job! As regards the publication of the register, I as Minister of Croatian Defence and this Government, as well as the previous government in the last four years, have no reason not to publish a register of Croatian defenders. However, this prevents us from a few laws. As you know, one of the laws that was amended at the time of the term of office when the SDP was headed by the government and then headed by the state, which was amended in that term, is the Law on the Single Origin Number of Citizens. So then the government decided, with the support of the then majority in parliament, to declare this information a secret. And that's one of the data in the register of Croatian defenders that prevents us, among other things, from publishing the register. Because we can't publish a security register. Therefore, we should also amend the Law on Defence and the Law on Internal Affairs, the Law on Single Origin Number and several other laws. None of us have any reason to keep any information in the register. As for the diagnosis of 1st and 2nd, not only the MUP, or the police, participated, the State's Attorney's Office took part in the campaign. So, Mr. Representative, if you know any information about any defender who is in any way over the line, falsely acquired some status, but now we're talking about the status of probably disabled, which you've thought of, please report to the competent state bodies as I have done in the past four years and as I'm going to do in the next four years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u510	Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. Representative Ante Kotromanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u511	Thank you very much, Mrs. Kosor. Well, I have to report here our High House, that the commanders are not, certainly not guilty of the increase, of creating an extra defender because, I've been commander of the brigade for eight years. The commander of the brigade has a clear number of people inside the Croatian army. You know exactly what number of people it is and how many have gone through dozens of water, power lines, battle lines. But you know very well that by the decision of two ministers in 98 or 96, 97 was a tremendous increase in the number of defenders, these were the decisions of the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Interior. And I would not agree at all, and we cannot in any way accuse the commanders of the concerns which are absolutely the largest combat troops in the Croatian army who have brought the Homeland War on their backs that they are guilty of increasing the number of defenders. Secondly, if the law is bad, so let's change it, if it's the law, if the law says it's bad and we can't publish the defense register, so let's change the law. I don't think the public is interested in how old a defender is, how old he is, we can publish it without JMBG. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u512	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u513	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have a question for Mr. Shucker, Minister of Finance. Mr. Minister, the terms of use of official cars, mobile phones, means of official travel, business or official and business credit cards and the means of representation in the Croatian Parliament are regulated by the decision of the competent committee published in the National Journal and made available to the Croatian public. A similar decision exists in the government, although I have not been able to find it, it may be the Internet's fault, but it certainly exists because I have seen in the national audit findings that it is often mentioned when it was not respected. I am also sure that such a decision exists because I do not believe that without the existence of such a decision any minister would dare hire or buy a new car, take over an official credit card or anything else regulated by that decision. According to our decision in Parliament, the right to a business credit card is only the president of the Parliament and the head of his office, and the secretaries of the Committee on Foreign Policy, interparliamentary cooperation and European integration when they are on the official path. I ask the question, Mr. Minister, which of the officials and other executive officials has the right and benefits of official business credit cards and how much money did they spend using them in 2007. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u514	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u515	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Representative, yes, there is a decision made by the Government in which you participated back in the year 2000 in March 9th 2000, such a decision was made, and such a decision has not changed. It therefore regulates the use of personal cars, official cars, which have the right to use mobile phones, the use of credit cards, the use of regular aircraft lines and the use of means of representation. The decision also defines who has the right to a credit card. Therefore, because of the public and because of you, this decision defines the right to credit card as having the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Ministers, Ministers and Deputy Ministers and Head of the Agency and State Offices. So it's prescribed by that decision, which I repeat was made during the time you participated in the government. That decision hasn't changed in the past eight years. Also about who uses the official card, how much amount is spent for the team, you can see in the report on the implementation of the state budget that you will get on the table because you should know that the Budget Law defines that every budgetary from the moment this High House votes its budget, it has basically set up funds for him to dispose of and for which purposes during the year, therefore, during the financial year. Therefore, each head of the budgetary authority shall, by means of its own regulation, determine the use of mobile phones. So there are decisions, there is ultimately a personal responsibility of each person who uses certain rights under this decision by the Croatian Government and also in the finding of a state audit, in the finding of internal control, and also in budgetary control can be seen if someone has violated that decision or used the resources of the state budget for what you are talking about the contrary to the government's decision. So, the decision exists, from the time you were in government, it hasn't changed in the past eight years. Each ministry in principle has its own rules and that decision defines who can have a business credit card. So, ministers and deputy ministers, it was by that decision while you were in government, and now it's the secretary of state. Therefore, in the report on the implementation of the budget I will tell you in which position you can see it. You can see the team, and I can also tell you about my Ministry, that in the past term, I have used my credit card as Minister and Secretary of State, and in this period it will benefit, since we have new State Secretarys for European Funds, therefore, and they will get a credit card according to this decision. Also, I can tell you how much I spent as a minister last year on a credit card exclusively paying accommodation costs on official travels, mostly outside, 47 thousand 295 kuna and 53 June. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u516	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u517	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Secretary, obviously, that 2000 decision is very good when you're not changing it in your second term. I didn't know, I didn't know business credit cards were for the team. I didn't know that. I thought they were for some other purposes. But to clear this dilemma, Mr. Minister, I'm going to ask you for a written answer in which you will give me a list of all the users who rightly use it in 2007, and since I really don't believe that only for the consumption of the representation they serve and how much of the users have spent. Thank you very much. So I'm looking for a written answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u518	... written answer. [[The speaker was subsequently turned on.]] It's Mr. Representative Anto Djapic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u519	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues. I have a question for the president of the Croatian government. By declaring Kosovo's independence, Croatia has found itself in some political problems. On the one hand, Croatia has been thrown out with insults from the highest leaders of the Serbian state as well as from the threat of the most powerful people in the same country. However, on the other hand, we have the same situation at least reading today in the media, and on some even the cover should not always be trusted by the media, and the headlines that some of the leaders of the ruling coalition stress that no matter what it means to recognise Kosovo's independence by the Croatian state could destabilise the Croatian government. I don't need to remind all of us that both the Croatian people and the Albanian people of Kosovo have been cast out by great Serbian aggression. That the Albanian minority in Croatia has made a major contribution to the defence and creation of the Croatian state and that Kosovo's independence and strategic policy are both the United States and the most important members of the European Union. I ask the question, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, that the government will react to the insults and threats coming from Serbia, so Tadic and Nikolic on the one hand and related to this other problem, therefore relations, do not have problems within the Croatian government. Whether there is a consensus in the Croatian government on the timing of recognising Kosovo's independence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u520	Thank you very much. Here you are, Prime Minister Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u521	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, I'm going to take this opportunity to answer to Agent Cain because it's the same question. First of all, we accept the actual state, and the fact is that the Kosovo Assembly voted the Declaration of Independence. Croatia is a country that won the Homeland War and we have no complexes to do with it. In that war we didn't want, which was forced to win. And if someone tried something like this again, Croatia would win that war again. However, I find it necessary and useful that Croatia does not react to any provocation. And that's the wisdom of politics, and that's what makes one policy a state-of-the-art and responsible and useful. And what do we care what Nikolic says? Nikolic also has his Radical Party, they have a big Serbian programme on their websites, in their official political programme. Although he had given up this program for a while during the election campaign for the president of the state but returned very quickly and put Seseljevo... So we want good relations and good neighbourly relations with Serbia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We want everything to be solved, everyone, all the problems that remain after the war in each other's relations, but first of all we want to solve the humanitarian situation, which is the issue of the prisoners and missing persons we still have around 1100. And here we expect the Republic of Serbia and all its officials and Serbs in Croatia to tell us the truth about where they are even if they know where these people are or where they are buried. We also expect the Republic of Serbia to follow its declared European path and Croatia will help it, and this includes respect and minority. And I welcome the fact and I want to make it very clear here that my government is also in the past meeting with the support of the Croatian Parliament because I have not seen anyone oppose it, as well as the Serbian government in the past term under the chairmanship of Prime Minister Kostunica that we have signed several extremely important bilateral agreements. Above all, an agreement on the protection of national minorities, Serbs in Croatia and Croats in Serbia. I also welcome the fact, and now I come to the other part of the issue, that representatives of the Serbian Democratic Independent Party are already second, in a second term in a coalition relationship with the Croatian Democratic Community. That we have signed an agreement that accurately regulates the status of the Serb national minority in Croatia but I will also say that in public for those who have not read it even though it is a public document, that we are both taking over the HDZ and the SDSS and for the status of Croats in Serbia. For example, to seek to exclude in the next census in Serbia that artificially created division of the Croatian Corps to Bunjevac and Šokce, Croatia's Bunjevce and Sokca. Because that's what we have on the census. So we are also looking for thanks for the support and colleagues of Serbian Democratic Independent Party MPs. That we also ask that Croats in Serbia have the right to their own representative or more MPs on their list. Representative Kuntic entered the list of Tadic's party. And that's good. We welcome that. That's progress. But we think there's more to be done. So cooperation in Croatia with all minorities, and I thank that when I mentioned the Serb minority thanks to other representatives of all national minorities who support such a government programme. I'm sure he's using the overall situation here. Serbia is therefore in a difficult, difficult situation. And it's not our place to make things harder. It's to make things easier for everyone with one moderate, measured policy. And that Croatia, as a future member of the European Union, is also our task, because there is a commitment within the European Union, not a task but a commitment by all Member States to follow a single or common foreign security and defence policy. And in that sense, I understand Serbian President Tadic's statements in the Security Council as one reaction to our view that we will be part of the countries, most of the member states of the European Union because some countries, as we have heard, will not recognise Kosovo. Croatia will do so when the time comes and when this vast majority or, together with them, of the member states of the European Union does so. I understand the sensitivity of the situation, but that's our decision. It's the decision of the Croatian government. And to answer the question at the same time, you won't mind me, Mr. Caine, I don't think there's any political problem or topic that shouldn't be discussed in the Croatian Parliament. However, there are also constitutional powers of government, parliament, etc. When it comes to international recognition, it is within the powers of the Government and I feel it is necessary to stress that there is no need for debate. Both me and the HDZ Club will be against the debate in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u522	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister has elaborated a little longer than our Rules of Procedure, but because of the seriousness and response of the two MPs, I think it was necessary to make it possible. Mr. Representative Anto Djapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u523	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Since you mentioned humanitarian care for the unfortunate Croatian defenders, I remind you that we did not get for last year, there have been no reports of this problem for the past six months. But we'll believe we'll get on this. But I must conclude that by respecting your answer that I did not receive either myself or the public a concrete answer, which is whether there is a consensus within the ruling coalition on the ageing recognition of Kosovo independence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u524	There will be a session of possibilities. Ms. Representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u525	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the Honorable President of the Croatian Government, respected members of the Croatian Government, colleagues and fellow MPs. I refer the question to the Minister of Health and Social Care Mr. Darka Milinovic. Dear Minister, it is known that prevention and early detection of diseases are extremely important for the preservation of the health of citizens. In this regard, my question is: Is the implementation of the early detection programme for breast cancer and colon cancer, what the citizens' response is, which are the results so far, and whether other prevention programmes are planned?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u526	Thank you. Minister of Health and Social Care Mr Darko Milinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u527	Mr. President, MPs and MPs. I thank the honourable MPs for the question and, as you know, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has brought in a document on the National Health System Strategy until 2011, and in this they have calculated naturally and screening tests for early breast cancer, colon cancer. At the end of this year, I will these days form a working group that will propose a programme for early detection of cervix cancer or the mouth of the womb, and next year we will prepare a program for early detection of prostate cancer. So, every year we go with a screening test for early cancer swelling of individual sites. As for screening for early breast cancer detection, around 350, 350,000 calls have been called so far, and we have a good answer to say, given that the start of this screening was in 2006 and that there were some technical problems. But now that response is at a level of about 53.55%. I have to say that during this, or last year, we forced out 550 newly discovered cases of breast cancer and that we have about 1500 suspicious or suspicious findings. As for colon cancer, we have a slightly weaker response that we started with our 30s and 7s. But so far, the response has been around 20%, and there have been some technical problems that we've been dealing with and we have several cases of early detection of colon cancer. As I said next year, we're going with an early discovery, a screening test for early detection of church cancers and 2009 prostate cancers. But what I want to take advantage of and take advantage of this situation and actually invite this Parliament to further sensitize Croatian citizens to respond, calls for early cancer detection, especially this one that is therefore breast and colon. 'Cause I'm gonna say one of my presses a year ago when I came into one town and I met two girls from 15 years old, so I talked to them, and when I left, I heard this guy say, "I'm happy to go home, my mom came home, she answered some call, I was in the hospital for two days, and I'm going home happy that she came from the hospital." It's about a woman who responded to a mammography call. The other one said I'm going with that because my mom's not with me anymore. Because I assumed what it was about. I came back, talked to them a little bit, so that other mom didn't respond to this call, but she didn't regularly go to early breast cancer control. So I want to sensitize the Croatian public to talk in their cities, municipalities, counties and appeal to all women to answer, to respond to this call because really responding to this call does not mean, of course, the health of the individual but also the condition of our children, the condition of Croatia as a whole, the state of health enlightenment as a whole. So, as far as the funds invested in these programs are concerned, I know what they are. I think it is immaterial to speak because one life in Croatia is saved, and the early stage of cancer is discovered in this way exceeding all the resources that the Ministry of Health and Social Care invests in these screening tests.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u528	Thank you. Mrs Ivanka Roksandić. Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u529	I would like to thank Mr. Minister for his reply. I'm happy with the answer. I honestly believe that your answer, as well as the invitation, will encourage citizens to respond to prevention programs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u530	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u531	Dear Mr. President, a question for Prime Minister Sanader. That's one of your favorite topics. There's been no government formed in Split for a year. He's just trying these days. But I'm saying it's been a year that only one man has acted in fact as a function of the administration. For two years now, I don't know if you've known it, but for two years now, the Split Square has not contracted any ships. Do you know that in the last year, only two meetings of the Supervisory Board were held at the head of which is still formally Minister Vukelić, one of which was the telephone what was in fashion big in Croatia, and the other was in Zagreb. I don't know why she shouldn't be held in Split, for example, even though she is a “square” in Split. Do you know that all four ships owned by Wessels from that Brodosplit affair that he paid for 50 million kunas to the Split Smuggling sold 65 million dollars per ship in the meantime to the Marine West. That's the company that made a better offer to the board of directors. And while you're at it, let me ask you. So will you ask Mr. Vukelic or order him to respond to the court in Split and come to testify because he has already refused twice, has not come, in an affair, or in a court case on the Brodosplit affair or will wait for the court to order the police, Minister Roncevic to bring Mr. Vukelic, as all other Croatian citizens, to perform his duty and come to testify in this very important process.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u532	Thank you. Prime Minister, Mr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u533	I'm glad to see you, Mr. Representative, that this mandate is being started by the two of us with the theme "Brodospleta." This is an important topic, because shipbuilding is an important industrial branch in Croatia and we will work with your help and here I really expect sincere help, we will try to restructure shipbuilding in accordance with European practice but in a way that survives, be competitive and be successful. And in that sense, I really expect not only critical tones from your side but also good suggestions. We've made a decision at the government these days to complete the administration with two other members. The Supervisory Board will also be partially changed, but I can say that one of the reasons why it has been a member of the administration in the past few months has been the fact that this member of the administration has acted as management president and that duty is extremely good. One of the proofs that this is the same is the fact that, for example, You at the last session of the Croatian Parliament did not say anything against this man, do not speak today, so he acted well as president of the administration, and if you had warned us that he might have misbehaved we might have changed the decision. So I expect that in this term we will work well together, that our Split square as well as the other 3rd May squares, "The Oilie", "The Queen", "Viktor Lenac" is especially on our hearts. I have to say, "Viktor Lenac" is especially at our heart and it would be good if it didn't work out, I'll take care of you now, if it didn't turn out that you were just taking care of the Split smuggling, ask some questions about Victor Lenc, and we'll raise the joint Croatian shipbuilding to be successful and competitive in the world.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u534	Thank you. Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u535	You haven't noticed, Prime Minister, that I've been helping you for over a year, asking these questions. I help you because I refer you to what everyone saw except you and what the State's Attorney's office saw and what it is now, tell and tell and what is at the end of the process now and you will see what it is, but ask Mr. Vukelic to go down. And as for the ability of the gentleman you're proposing to continue running the bootlegger's office. In two years I repeat, no ship has been contracted, a year alone represented the administration, it is not in accordance with the statute of registration...... All right, all right. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You'll answer that another time. So now you're suggesting that the same man continues to run that administration extended by two others, but it's really a question of why at a time when the most favourable conditions had not happened to contract any ships. And I will continue to help you, I will continue to help you very gladly, but give us a hand too, and try to make the judiciary work even if the people who get that call respond to that call.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u536	Thank you. It's Madam Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u537	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm asking Mr. Prime Minister. This way, the chief secretary of HDZ, Mr. Jarnjak, has been tasked to at all costs,... Nice to meet you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] To bring down, at any cost, the legally elected power of citizens in Sinj, which is of course led by the SDP. This should have been done in such a way that with individuals, in fact, individuals and parties in the coalition with the SDP are in the local environment, to promise the government's financial support in the implementation of the programme for the local community. It's about political corruption, or buying a councilman that's not foreign to HDZ. I ask Mr. Prime Minister, will Mr. Jarnjak bear responsibility for what happened?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u538	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u539	Madam representative, thank you very much for asking. You know, we already have a 90th democracy in Croatia, and I think we have achieved a high degree of democracy, which is also confirmed by the fact that in Croatia the authorities have changed, because it is always the best proof that a society has reached a high democratic level, and so the authorities have changed both in Sinj and in Croatia and in other cities and that is good. It's good for democracy for the authorities to change. It is in the nature of every political party to try to win power and try to implement the programme on the basis of which it won the elections. It is also in the nature of the HDZ, and I assume the SDP, and seeing as how you fought so hard after defeating the elections to form a government, you failed, so in your nature it is also in the nature of the HNS and HSS and HSLS and I mean even the HSP and other parties in Croatia. Therefore, everything that is democratically defensive and which is in line with the democratic standards of Europe that we are seeking, the European Union is good. If there are any other ways, then I ask you, there is a way you're going to do this other way that you're not allowed to do, which you're going to try to show for, and you're probably going to sanction yourself. But the charges against the Secretary-General are being dismissed, and the Secretary-General is telling me right now that he has some and some indications, and probably something more than the indication that the SDP acted in the town of Sinj, also to quote you with the purchase of councilmen. But I reject it both ways, I don't care. I think that's what happened in the House, too, so it can happen at lower levels. If a councilman or a representative changes colors during the term of office, it is not okay, but it is also acceptable to a democratic sense that nothing would be evident because it is happening in other European Union countries as well. So, let me cut it short. We will do everything, I am speaking now, you have brought me here to speak as president of the HDZ because you have asked me about the Secretary-General, not the Vice-President of the Parliament, because Mr Jarnjak is here as Vice-President of the Parliament, here is not the Secretary-General of the Croatian Democratic Community, but the Vice-President of the Parliament, so it would be good to have mentioned his duties. If you ask me as president of the HDZ, we will do everything within the framework of democratic Usus to win power in Sinj in the next elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u540	Thank you very much. Ms. Representative Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u541	Thank you very much. You didn't understand. My question is whether the secretary-general will be responsible for failing to bring down power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u542	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Milivo Schwartz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u543	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, members of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs! Let me at first express my great pleasure and pride that I have as a new representative for the first time the opportunity to speak in this High House. I would like to refer my question to the Minister of the Interior Mr Berislav Roncevic. Corruption is one of the crucial problems of every society, especially of transition societies. These days, I have a number of citizens who welcome the latest actions of the institutions of the Republic of Croatia in the fight against corruption. I have also been contacted by numerous Associations of Homeland War defenders as well as many doctors who welcome the activities of the police, the state's attorney and other institutions in countering corruption. Your Honor, Mr. Minister! Can you give us more details about the latest anti-corruption actions we've read about in the media these days? I mean specifically the actions "Diagnosis I" and "Diagnosis II", and what are the police planning to take in the future in terms of curbing corruption? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u544	Thank you. Minister Roncevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u545	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor! First of all, I thank you for your commendation of not only the Croatian police but also other institutions, especially here I am referring to the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia for the latest activities carried out in terms of preventing corruption of organised crime. You could also hear more about these details from the joint press conference of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia and the Police Directorate. Since the persons who are, more persons suspected of committing multiple crimes are brought to investigative judges in the County Courts in Split and Osijek, I, as Minister of the Interior, cannot talk about the details of these activities. But I can tell you and answer your question to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and I will tell the Ministry of Interior that I am headed will work on implementing the Government's programmes. And I remind you that this is the National Programme for the Prevention of Corruption in 2006-2008, the National Plan for Combating Organized Crime in 2007-208, the National Programme for Combating Human Trade, the Action Plan for the Abuse of Intoxication Drugs in order to further prevent corruption of organised crime, and that by strengthening the capacity of Croatian police in this regard we will also make certain changes in the internal structure of the Ministry of Interior of the Croatian Police. I thank you for your support, and I thank you for your support to the home war associations and doctors and I announce further activities in terms of the implementation of these government strategic decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u546	Thank you. Mr. Millyov Schwartz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u547	I thank Mr. Secretary. I wish you a lot of success in curbing corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u548	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Agent Ivan Chehok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u549	Thank you, Mr. President, members of the government. I ask the question to Master Pankretić, and I could also ask Mr. Cobankovic because I started talking about the subject before. Unfortunately, my county, the insane area, the end of the Podravina has been plagued. Thank God it's not human. It's pork. However, there are direct consequences to human fate. Over tens of thousands of small village pigs' holdings have been damaged. They're people who can barely make ends meet because they can't sell their uniforms and pigs in that whole pig plague area. In fact, their existence and ability to feed themselves and their families have been questioned at all. I know, and we're talking, and Mr Pankretić and I have agreed that the government will help. Unfortunately, however, these ransom prices are extremely low. Eight kunas seem to me to be to me, ten kunas for divorces, where the meat industry will only give four kunas, right, and the state six. I ask that this be the last time and teach us all the brains to find some common way out of everything because it's obvious that it's going to profit from the meat industry. At least the country's pig farmers will get it. And in fact, all this will lead to new imports and less food production in the Republic of Croatia, so I'm asking you, is it possible to finally do this intervention slaughter to the state's organisation, so that we don't leave everything to the market? Because I am convinced that if we offered through the union, if the state could care and slaughter all these disciplines, if we offered it through trade unions all over Croatia so that each of us would pay more than ten kunas when he knew it had, that it was domestic production, that it was home-grown children. I think it's really time we started protecting domestic production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u550	Answer Mr Bozidar Pankretic, Minister of Agriculture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u551	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor. Of course we are fully aware of the problems caused by classical swine fever. As you know, all prescribed measures are being taken. Unfortunately, these prescribed measures make it difficult for you to talk about. The ministry is very actively involved in solving this problem. Here, we also bought in this area you're talking about yesterday, in Varazdin County, along with the meat industry "Wyda" five hundred tolls, put them into this. Already today, there are also meat industries that buy and try to solve the problem in collaboration with pigdog associations, with people who are out there on the ground. Of course I agree with you, and we also work very quickly to provide intervention support. This intervention support will come very soon as a proposal to the Government of the Republic of Croatia where we want to protect our agricultural producers most directly at the moment, in this case pigs, but we will go in parallel and with a measure towards the heroists. Of course we're aware that it's impossible to compensate for the complete loss that has been happening in this production at the moment. Unfortunately, the increase in food prices, and we all know that corn has almost doubled as far as price is concerned, is impossible to make up for in this section, but we in the ministry are going to propose to the government according to our options that we have in the budget to reduce this loss as much as possible and to reach at least some positive zeroes. I think with both this buy and this intervention support that's going to go quarterly, it means for the whole period but in a way that goes directly to the producers, not to go to the meat industry, and I want to make that clear. We'll register through every manufacturer's cattle center, see how much we can do right now with this one-time intervention support to help him. Because what's the point? The goal now is not to lose our pig farmers because we are aware that we will definitely need them and very quickly. Teached by an example of the Neretva Valley where we had a large production of cabbage a year ago so unfortunately this year it was not because it had to be plowed and the price went to heaven, so that we would not have a similar situation. Either with pigs, or with heroes, we have to take certain steps in any case, and we're going to do that, but I believe it will be next week at the government, and we're already doing these concrete measures today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u552	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ivan Chehok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u553	Thank you very much. I would really pray that this goes to the government next week and that we don't discourage those people who really can't make ends meet. And let me just take the opportunity to thank Mr. Polancec and the government for helping Vartex on behalf of the worker Vartex. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u554	Thank you very much. It's Mrs. Brankica Crlenko's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u555	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I refer the question to the Minister of Health and Social Care Dr. Darka Milinovic. Dear Mr. Minister, on several occasions and last week's last week, a ceiling collapsed on one of the General Hospital departments in Sibenik, more specifically in the women's section of the Department of Surgery. I remind you that in 2007 only 300 million kuna and only 2.4% of the total health budget were allocated to investments in the health system. At the same time, 18 of the 22 County hospitals were operating with a loss of more than 150 million kuna per month. The total debt of only the Sibenik hospitals passes over 200 million kunas. Mr. Minister, what does the government intend to do, or the resolution ministry, to which you are headed in terms of debts and recovery of county hospitals, as well as Sibenik hospitals? Will you increase the hospital limit so they can do business without losing or solving the problem you see in the purchase of magnetic resonance for each county hospital as it stands in your coalition agreement? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u556	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u557	Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I have on several occasions said that I will try the health system as much as possible to rise from the narrow party interests and make us the first step, binds us to IX. election unit as far as I know. The election results are something else, but we are also tied up by the troubles of the Sibenik hospital. I said on several occasions that I would visit the Sibenik hospital, so some journalists asked me when it would be. It will be the moment when we have a clear vision of the problem of the Sibenik hospital, but not only of the Sibenik hospitals, but of all the hospitals in the IX area. election units. And since I am the minister, I must therefore care for the hospitals of all the county and state hospitals at the level of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, my ministry is in line with the new budget that we're going to bring and the planned uplifting of individual hospitals and so on to the Sibenik hospital. However, it is not only the problem of the Sibenik hospital. That she herself is a problem and this Minister of Health and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, of course, to solve this very quickly. We are in a proposal or in preparation for a complete reform of the health system that my ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia will implement during this four year period and in this context I once again use this opportunity to do something together not just for health care, through health care, to do something together for the Republic of Croatia. So there are several suggestions to address the problem of the Sibenik hospital. Is that patching up when every second, third or fourth month of the ceiling collapse, I don't think it's with the talks with the IX parliamentary deputies. We have several options and several suggestions to solve the total problem of the Sibenik hospital, so until we can define how we will deal with it I would not want to calculate in which way we will do so until we are completely or definitely agreed on. So, I call on you, together with me as Minister of Health, to show an example, to raise health care out of narrow political interests, and to solve problems together. I will certainly accept all your suggestions. And I'm sorry, if I have a second, my time isn't up yet. As for magnetic resonance, yes, it would be good if all the county seats had magnetic resonance because they would also reduce the lists in large cities. The prime minister often says that Croatia is not as strong as Zagreb, Osijek, Rijeka and Split and I say health care is not as strong as Zagreb, Osijek, Split or Rijeka, but as strong as healthcare is just Sibenik, Gospić, Vukovar and other hospitals.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u558	Thank you. Mrs. Branchie Blackie. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u559	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. I'm not happy with your answer. The vault you're headed for is in serious trouble. But the government doesn't seem to have any short-term, let alone long-term solutions to improve the situation. Health is a key factor in the quality of life of each individual, so investment in health and health systems should be far more important than personnel issues such as the illegal extension of the mandate of the Governing Council of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. I'd like to ask your written answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u560	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u561	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm asking the Prime Minister the question. No one in Croatia can think that they can make a profit without being concerned with the situation in the society in which they make that profit. In difficult times, some of the profits need to be paid back to make life easier for the citizens. You said at the government meeting on Thursday the 14th of this month. One of our ministers in the past term has multiplied her wealth. She bought the shares of IGH for several hundred thousand kuna, and now these shares are worth millions. It wouldn't be in itself, it wouldn't be a big deal. People buy shares, sell shares, the value of shares rises or falls, my God, but according to the laws of the market. It would be no dispute if the state itself had not greatly helped to increase the value of these shares. The IGH mainly concluded deals with the state, in these jobs it made good money, and the value of the shares grew logically enormously in four years of your former term. The value of these shares has increased more than 20 times. Not 20%, 20 times. Which brought the minister a constant increase in her assets from that base, with 350 thousand kuna per month. From month to month in all four years of office. I'm asking you now, is this an example of the social sensitivity that you're calling for at government meetings? Are you going to shed crocodile tears in this mandate because of the difficult situation of ordinary people and set up committees while giving jobs to those companies where your ministers are actively connected?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u562	Thank you. Here you are, Prime Minister Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u563	Mr. President, Mr. Representative, you've asked a few questions, I'll try to answer all of them. First of all, I assume, since you started my quote from the government's session, I assume you agree with that quote and with that attitude. By your nod, I can see that you agree, and I'm glad, because I really believe when a country is in a difficult situation that those who make a big profit, and I meant big companies, including banks. For example, the Croatian Bank, and this is no argument against banks, but for them, it means that they did well, but we need to know, they made a profit in the last year of 5 billion and 300 million kuna before tax, when we refuse to tax any 600, 700 million less, so still over 4.5 billion kuna profits have been made by banks in Croatia. And that's what we need to know. I know that now it can be interpreted whether, right now, banks need to make profits like any other economic unit, any other entity. Now, what you said, when it comes to IGH, come on, God, and it is my view that every Croatian company in the next term of office, no matter what power it was, or the one that broke up, etc., makes profits and increases profits, and increases its value and increases the value of shares. And there's no reason for you to doubt it, I assure you, and behind this claim I stand with full responsibility, there's no reason to doubt that any shareholder, a small shareholder below, I don't know how much now, that I'm not quoting because you're a question, it would be much more correct if you had asked the minister yourself, she'd know much better about it when it comes to her shares. But I will remind you of something why you voted in your term of office when you led Croatia. You then voted on one proposal to allow government officials to have up to 20%, or up to 25%, I don't remember exactly, up to 25% stakes in companies, and that's possible. If someone has 1%, or less than 1%, as did Minister Matulović-Dropulić, then that's the problem, and that 0 or the whole thing, or up to 1%, I don't know, let her say that she achieved it and bought it long before she came into this mandate for the minister. Therefore, we have two options. Let's just say, I'm also drawing conclusions from what you're saying, or when someone means one of the state officials who's represented by parliamentary deputies has some sort of, some kind of share, some stock or whatever, that company doesn't have to do successfully. If that's an approach, you don't have us for that kind of approach. If the approach is to make sure that no one in any way influences getting jobs, because there is, that is the approach we share. And I don't see any reason why you're bringing the minister into a situation that I've been talking about big companies, who really need to know that in a particular society, they're making a profit and they're bringing that particular society back to those citizens where they make their profits, not through money, that they give it back to them, but through a reduction in prices. That was my message and my appeal. And I want to thank the Croatian companies who accepted this appeal, because both food producers and traders have reduced their prices for oil, milk and bread. And we also managed to make it public yesterday in Vukovar that we were able to agree and that the prices of gas and electricity, not for the population, not for companies until summer.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u564	Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u565	Oh, my dear Prime Minister. It's not a problem if ministers have shares or if they don't have shares. The problem is whether the state helps such firms where ministers or other officials have shares. Second. You say, "God forbid all companies do business as well as IGH, come on, God," but then I guess ministers would have to have shares in all these other companies, too, and then they'd do business successfully. Thirdly, on April 1st, the Building Licensing Regulation will enter into force, they will provide a monopoly for just a few companies in Croatia in supervision in... IGH is about to be one of those two firms. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And she'll be able to get the biggest jobs, and she's already had before, after that rule comes into force, it's the government's rule. In this way your government directly, directly, by adopting the rules helps something that is classically considered a conflict of interest, which I warned you about.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u566	Thank you. It's Madam Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u567	Thank you, Mr. President, I would like to refer my questions to the Minister of Justice, Mrs. Ani Lovrin. The European Commission has postponed the negotiations in Chapter 23 of the judiciary and fundamental rights on the grounds that the Republic of Croatia cannot be considered sufficiently prepared to open this chapter. With a special emphasis that Croatia has a serious problem with corruption and the structural one. To improve things, you will agree with me, political transparency is most important and in your own decision-making. So please answer me, which reasons you handled in the appointment of public notebooks whose job is one of the most profitable in the Republic of Croatia and how you did those appointments at the time of so-called. Technical Governments, i.e. 20 December 2007 or are decisions counter-dated because they were only sent to the candidates on 17 January 2008? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u568	Thank you. Madam Minister Anna Lovrin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u569	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, the truth is to say the right time, negotiations are not delayed in Chapter 23 of the judiciary and fundamental human rights, but are in the regular negotiating process as for other areas of negotiation, the criteria for, 3 criteria for opening negotiations have been laid down. I must say that in other areas, the same criteria for opening or closing chapters are obtained. As regards this Chapter 23, it is also in the negotiating process and in relation to the European Commission a whole new area. So for the first time, one area is called that. So I have to say "screening" ended in 2000, October 2006. And we were waiting for the assessment and criteria or meeting for the opening of negotiations for almost a year and we got the criteria in December 2007. Of course, we could have expected these three criteria, according to the 2007 report on Croatia's progress, because we reviewed and were aware of all the findings of European Commission experts. Of these three criteria, one criterion is the revised National Anti-Corruption Programme and, of course, the revised National Justice Reform Programme. One of the sub-measures is certainly transparency in the work of both the public services and the judiciary. As far as your appointment issues are concerned, the appointment of public notebooks has been carried out in full accordance with the law. So about 230 candidates appeared in 66 public places. They all met the formal conditions for public places. In the election procedure, an assessment of who he considers to be the best performer of these tasks is also carried out by the Public Bookmark Chamber, but the choice is made by the minister and is not tied to it. Therefore, the evaluation of the Public Bookmark Chamber and the assessment of the Minister was based on the résumés and on the basis of the work done by the candidates until then. I must say that I have managed to allow public service access to a wider circle of people on the trail of what has recently been amended and the Law on Public Literature has recently been amended, so that the neighbours, those, or those already within that profession, do not realize the priority and priority because it was also the intensity of the legislation. Therefore, both judges and state lawyers and lawyers from the economy and lawyers from the state administration came into the circle of public notebooks. And that is because they can and wants to do the job in a good way because the public notary's business has been partly transferred to the public administration's affairs, in part to the judicial affairs. So I want to say once again what has been very demonstrated through the media. It's like age is a public record business bingo on the lottery. I want to repeat this, and I should say that this is a very complex and responsible business that requires both material investment in this business. Therefore, with due seriousness, he should be treated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u570	Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u571	I'm not happy with your answer. You're saying the negotiations haven't been postponed. What does that mean? That they started? Then who's negotiating? Madam Minister, you appointed 70% of the public notebooks without the consent of the Public Bookmark Chamber. You didn't explain why they were appointed better than what you were asked to do. You have not appointed any candidates who have received a public reward, published scientific and professional papers. You didn't name those who passed a public record exam with only one. You haven't named those with the highest working grades from the public administration. Except for one. And you owe it all to Article 14. The Law on Public Libraries. But that's why you appointed your assistant who passed the exam while he was still in the course of the tender procedure. You appointed Secretary of the Assembly Committee for Internal Policy, member of the HDZ. You appointed a candidate from the ranks of your super coalition in Rijeka who knew in advance that he would be appointed, so he resigned to his political functions. And you're doing it all at the time of the announced sharp fight against corruption. So aren't these appointments an obvious example of political corruption? Or do you still believe that Europe, let me quote your important statement, has unfortunately not recognised the measures in the judiciary With such measures, dear lady, you are not entering Europe, but into the guru of the Balkans. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u572	Thank you very much. It's Madam Representative Mariana Petyr's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u573	Dear Mr. President, MPs and MPs, Mr. Prime Minister, Minister and Minister. I'm asking my question to the Minister of Tourism, Mr. Damir Byce. Mr. Minister Bajs, as well as well known, tourism is an export branch and enables the exchange of goods and services within the borders of the Republic of Croatia. Since we often hear about the integration of green and blue fields, and that we have witnessed that imports of agricultural products in recent years are wild, while our agricultural producers do not have their own products to sell to, I am interested in Mr. Ministers which you will apply to the strategy now that we have an independent Ministry of Tourism to enable the integration of agriculture and tourism and the placement of indigenous traditional rural products in tourism, in our hotels and catering facilities. Since I come from Sisak-Moslavina County and central Croatia I am particularly interested in the placement of those products in which branding and we have invested as a county and this is Slavonic coolen, banana sausage, Posavina goose,... apples, chestnut honey and similar products other than food can also be excellent souvenirs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, since Sisak-Moslavina County has made the biggest step in organic food production, I wonder if you planned to open two or three hotels in your strategy, where only products produced in an environmentally acceptable way would be offered. Also as a minister who comes from the continent, which I particularly welcome, I believe you will make an effort to develop rural tourism that is intended to reduce the depopulation of Croatian villages. Since in my county Lonjsko polje as a nature park and Moslavačka gora as the first regional park in Croatia, I am also interested in Mr Ministers which measures are you planning to develop rural and continental tourism?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u574	Thank you. Mr. Bice, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u575	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you for asking the honourable parliamentary counsel. So you're absolutely right. Tourism is a strategic-economic branch in Croatia. 22%... This is where income is created. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Almost EUR 7 billion. And it is clear that this provides the possibility of placements and goods and services of our companies, our producers. I'll point out that, of course, we can also provide the possibility of placing our services that we cannot otherwise perform. I would also point out, of course, that this is clear when traffic is monitored, traffic across the summer when our main tourist season is where there is just an increase in both the financial sector and the plasma part of the goods. However, of course we should see that the analysis that has been made and the study shows that there is a good trend in increasing domestic goods and services. But certainly not as much as we would like together. Therefore, we are willing to enable practically that our producers and our companies, I say, can easily place their services and goods because tourism is the simplest way of exporting where you have no customs barriers, where you have no cost of introducing the production market we have prepared and a series of measures. Of course, the first and most significant measure is related to the support of the tourist season through the preparation of the season for HBOR loans. We believe that it should be expanded in various ways. Of course, we want to support and encourage how indigenous especially environmentally acceptable products are and we think that this is one thing that will have great significance in the future. I will point out that we are working on the development of rural tourism, and what I would especially point out is that we want to encourage both cluster formation and support for structural associations. Of course, that's what you'll find yourself through exactly like this, I'd say the possibility that we in production can also have souvenirs that can also be nutritional. Therefore, we will prepare these measures. The measures are in line with the programme of this coalition government and I am quite sure that they will contribute to the rise of domestic goods and services.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u576	Thank you. Ms. Representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u577	I would like to thank Mr. Minister for his reply. The program is really ambitious. Of course, you will have the support of me as MPs and the Club of Representatives of the HSS at its implementation and I hope you will have enough money to implement all these programs.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u578	Thank you. Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u579	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, respected members of the government. I have a question for Minister Roncevic. Ministers, under the auspices and direction of the Sibenik police, are facing an unprecedented persecution of Damir Horvatovic, former Chief of the Maritime Police. Someone in the police, but also in HDZ, has been distracted by the existence of a blog "Sibean Konoba" that critically writes about the events in Sibenik. Also, HDZ has been bothering Horvatovic for years, from me completely unknown but clearly political reasons. In order to resolve these two disturbances, police have based on an anonymous application and by order of the current chief decided to link these two things which are otherwise unrelated in the normal world, and by abuse of police apparatus and powers without an appropriate warrant from blog.hr, requested and illegally obtained information about the "IP" address based on which it is possible to identify the identity of the person or persons hiding behind the alliance "Sibean waiter". But not only did they illegally come to this data, but instead of charging the real owner of the blog, although I don't see why they should be charged with it at all and why he blamed Damir Horvatovic for declaring him the owner of the blog. And now Damir Horvatovic is neither guilty nor liable for a blog that has not earned his suspension at all and the police are charging him with the conduct of an inappropriate police officer. If it wasn't crazy, it'd be ridiculous! So I ask you what you will do against persons who have openly misused their powers and without proper warrant or open investigation ask for information about a blogger, thereby hitting freedom of speech in the Republic of Croatia, i.e. allow the foundation of illegal and incorrect evidence to be suspended by a police officer and the burdens of a tight measure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u580	Thank you. Minister Roncevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u581	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, Your Honor. I have not received any letter, a complaint about the conduct of the Sibenik police in terms of this content of your question. Since at this point I do not have enough information to answer you, I will ask the Director of the Croatian Police Mr. Marijan Benko to examine the legality of the proceedings and you will receive a written reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u582	Thank you. Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u583	If I may have an understanding of your answer, I am certainly not pleased with it. Because all this stuff I've been talking about for months is public documents. A letter requesting information about the “IP” address was made public a month ago by the Police Administration of Sibenik-Kninska from NOVA TV and blog.hr. That's what you're talking about publicly and publicly, which just shows that not only do you not know what's going on in your vault, but don't follow the media reports about what's going on right now in your service that you're responsible for. In fact, it's obvious that it's purely political persecution. I ask you an additional answer to this question, because I believe that they will be interested not only in suspended police officers, but also in all those Croatian citizens who write freely on the Internet and obviously lived in the illusion that in their Croatian country they can free and write.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u584	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Mario Zubovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u585	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will ask the Minister for Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction Mrs. Marina Matulović Dropulić and I first thought to ask her something from her domain at the ministry. But I'm going to ask her to explain when she got the shares, how many shares there are, how many percentages, and to explain to us all about those shares she already had, which was already in the media, and to take down the doubt that here's the representative came out unfortunately because he probably didn't want to hear the truth. I don't want to leave any doubt about our ministers, and I think it's incorrect to ask questions like this here just to put one issue of suspicion in public with people who are acting honorable, important, and it would be fine if Mr. Stazic had asked that question to the minister rather than to the Prime Minister. It shows here that he wanted to manipulate and I'm asking the minister to tell us here. For me, it is crucial when she acquired those shares and whether during the SDP and coalition authorities, whether they grew or fell drastically in the company. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u586	Thank you very much. Ms Marina Matulović Dropulić is the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u587	Thank you very much, Mr. President, thank you, Mr. Representative, for this matter. Although I have already been in public one five times, six times I have answered these questions in detail. But obviously there's still a few more things to say. I bought my shares when all former and then employees of the Institute of Construction, because I worked at the Croatian Institute of Construction in '95. In 1995. So 13 years ago. Then all the employees bought shares, so for example. and a member of the SDP in charge of finance in the City of Zagreb, whom no one calls and no one asks how many shares and what shares he has bought. So a lot of people have shares of IGH, especially all those who were employed. I am very pleased, too, and I am pleased that I bought shares in 95 when people didn't even think about buying those shares, because we helped the Croatian Institute of Construction become the company it is today. My shares are 0.9% of the IGH value, and as I said, they were acquired in 95 years. IGH today has 800 graduate engineers, master and doctor of science, and instead of all of us being happy and satisfied that we have such a firm that can present us and arrange for works both on the world market and on the European market, as you have now seen where they all made contracts and so on. We ask questions like this. There's one more thing that's very important, and that's that we should ask in IGH when the stocks have grown the most. The largest increase was from 2000 to 2004 and not from 2004 to 2007. So the other thing is that I never kept my shares secret, I never said I didn't have shares there, but then I would pray that all other people also admit who has those shares. My Ministry of IGH does not arrange for this because we do not arrange for works or companies, nor does it mean Croatian roads, Croatian highways, etc., it is accompanied by a completely different ministry. All these works are received by a public tender, and they are indeed a company that is worthy of obtaining such jobs and which have contributed to it themselves. Velim today has this company and has its own facilities in both Bosnia and Herzegovina and Russia and around, and I say we should all be proud of it together. And just one more. I, with my shares that I've reported since the first day they were property cards, I've never reported those shares, so it's been going on for years. I can't handle those shares. How much they'll be worth when I can handle them and if they'll even be worth it, especially if this kind of hack is going to be against IGH, we'll see. So I didn't spend any of it, nor could I use my shares today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u588	Thank you. Mr. Representative Mario Zubovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u589	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I really thank the minister for explaining that. All I have to say is that Mr. Stazic was behind this pillar, he didn't want to show himself, but he did hear the explanation so that in the future he could pass it on to other colleagues what he now heard here, so that he passed on the truth without soaking a grain of doubt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u590	Thank you. It is not forbidden for the Rules of Procedure to stand behind the pillar. Ms. Representative Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u591	Thank you, Mr. President. I refer my question to the vice-presidents of the government and the minister of the family, defenders and intergenerational solidarity, Mrs. Jadranki Kosor. Madam Vice President, please tell me, do you have any idea when it will begin with the work of the Attorney General's Office for Persons with Disabilities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u592	Thank you. Here you go, Madam Vice President Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u593	Thank you very much. Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, Mrs. MPs, of course I have the information that, as I believe all MPs and MPs know it on the government's proposal, the Croatian Parliament made a decision on the establishment of the Ombudsman's Office for Persons with Disabilities on the moment when the Assembly adopted the Law on Advocates for Persons with Disabilities at the end of last year. We have proposed this law on the basis of a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is the advisory body of the Government and in which the representatives of persons with disabilities are, of course, representatives of associations, or representatives of the Alliance. After the adoption of the law, we have certainly prepared for the Government everything necessary for the start of the Office of Advocates or Advocates for Persons with Disabilities, which means that in the budget projections for this year we have set about 2.5 million kuna for 2008 to start the work of the Office and of course we expect the Croatian Parliament to accept this proposal and to accept the draft budget in which the budget of the Office for Persons with Disabilities will be. Before that, it is certainly impossible to take any other step. However, under the law, the Government has called for a public call for the application of all candidates or candidates for attorneys, i.e. the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities. This public call is currently ongoing, so I use this opportunity to invite all those who consider that they meet the conditions, and the conditions are clearly stated in the law itself and then in a public invitation to answer that public call. All candidates who meet all the conditions, i.e. candidates among whom it will be possible and the person with disabilities will certainly, so prescribe a public call, but also the law, then if they meet all other conditions, the person with disabilities will have the advantage. That public call will be over soon. What I can still say is that there have been some speculations in the public that are, of course, incorrectly, about that none of the provisions of the law have been made, the law is absolutely all fulfilled, and, among other things, in cooperation with the Central State Property Office, it may have been the hardest part of the job, because we were looking for a place of course owned by the state, in Zagreb. That space was found, he'll need to be arranged, but of course we'll do it as soon as we get the budget. Therefore, Madam MPs, all the conditions for starting the work of the Ombudsman's office for disabled persons are met on the basis of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and All Other Documents and the Council of Europe and of course of the Croatian, I think that we will take another step towards promoting and protecting the rights of persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u594	Thank you very much. Ms. Representative Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u595	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for this exhaustive response. I am pleased with your answer, and I am sure that all persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia are also satisfied with this response and are happy that they will get a lawyer soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u596	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Bojan Pants' turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u597	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I'm asking the Department of Defense, Mr. Branko Vukelic, Minister. Since he's not here today, I believe Mr. Secretary of State Raboteg will be able to answer him. And the question is about the Coast Guard. Media recently announced that coastal coastal coast guard ships will be built in shipyards in the Republic of Croatia. It has been pointed out that two types of ships will be built, up to 30 and five meters long and up to 70 and eight feet long, with equipment that would suit the purpose for which the ships are intended. The total number of 13 ships necessary for the operation of the coast guard is mentioned, and in recent days we have been exposed to threats of eco disaster as is known along the western coast of Istria. Mr. Secretary of State! Can you answer what dynamics the construction of coast guard ships will take, and will these ships really be built in domestic shipyards?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u598	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of State Mato Raboteg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u599	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Representative! Therefore, the construction of new ships for the needs of the Croatian Navy and the Coast Guard is certainly one of the largest equipment programmes of the Croatian Armed Forces. In that sense, I'll give you some information that will, of course, be the answer to your question. The Ministry of Defence, in cooperation with the professional services of the Croatian Navy, has made appropriate studies for two types of ship, for a smaller ship, a coastal coastal vessel and a larger offshore coastal vessel according to our long-term development plan of the Armed Forces, which should meet the tasks of the Coast Guard. The Military Technical Council adopted the studies early this year. Therefore, as regards the smaller ship, the studies have shown that, given the frequent failures and the high cost of maintenance of existing patrol ships, it is necessary to go to the construction of new, modernly equipped coastal patrol ships about 30 and five metres long, which would allow more frequent territorial sea management in line with, as part of cooperation with other state bodies, as well as the patrol and shorter stay in ZERP. As far as larger ships are concerned, the construction of offshore patrol ships ranging from ninety to 100 metres would ensure permanent presence at sea in all weather conditions, primarily surveillance and protection of maritime and submarine areas where the Republic of Croatia has sovereign rights. These ships would be designed and built as more dedicated, primarily with the capacity to carry out coastal guard tasks, and depending on the level of equipment and on the implementation of traditional combat tasks in order to protect sovereignty, the integrity of the Republic of Croatia in the Adriatic Sea, as well as participation in the joint compositions of NATO member states as part of the fight against asymmetric threats at sea. In line with the dynamics of boat engagement on missions and the implementation of a regular periodic remont, we have estimated that eight smaller and four larger ships should be built. By the end of 2010, four smaller ships were scheduled to be built and the construction of the remaining ships would then be brought into line with the expenditure of the old. For larger ships, it is planned to complete the Performance and Implementation Programme Study this year, and tender documentation for construction should be prepared next year. And now something to end which is, which is directly related to some previous issues regarding the engagement of Croatian shipyards etc. We believe that both types of ships can be worked in Croatian shipyards in collaboration with foreign strategic partners not only for our needs but also for orderers from other countries. We also see the Brodar Institute from Zagreb, of course, as a partner in the design and control of the construction of ships. With this approach, a new ship-building programme that is very complex and financially demanding would condition investment in the modernisation and technological reconstruction of Croatian shipyards, which would be a significant boost in the development of the Croatian economy. This would be achieved through the application of the "offset Agreement" with a foreign strategic partner, in which all this procedure would be conducted transparently and through the application of the Public Procurement Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u600	Thank you. Mr. Bojan Pants. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u601	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of State! I believe that the construction of these ships will be a good reference for Croatian shipyards, especially in the time when they go into the restructuring process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u602	Thank you. It's Madam Representative Gordana Sobol's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u603	I thank Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, gentlemen and Madam Ministers. I refer my question to the prime minister of the government. Mr. Prime Minister! Last year, somewhere in the seventh month of this Croatian Parliament, the Retirement Supplement Act was passed. I'd say that's got a lot of pomp. A belief has been created that your then government takes the best possible care of all pensioners. Then your old-new Deputy Prime Minister assured all of us here, but then the Croatian public that there is no one who will not benefit from that law and that everyone will win. Already, as SDP, we claimed it was not true. We pointed out the fact that a large number of pensioners who should exercise the right to an add-on will not exercise that right. We even proposed a special law which, of course, you so smoothly refused. In January of this year, unfortunately, we were right. In fact, about two hundred thousand pensioners, and this is Mr. Prime Minister to the very poorest, whose pension is from five hundred to five hundred kuna a month, has proved not to exercise the right to an add-on to a pension. In January of this year, the average pension in relation to the average salary fell to 38% already poor and amounts to slightly less than two thousand kuna. My question is: How will you explain to the pensioners but also to the entire Croatian public that this law was actually just one pre-election trick?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u604	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u605	Madam Representative! How could it have been a pre-election trick if hundreds of thousands of people got bigger pensions with that add-on? So it's not about any trick, it's about people getting more money. And in the budget itself for this year, you'll see that now that the budget comes next week to the Parliament, you'll see that here, Minister of Finance how much... Nine hundred million kuna more for pensions. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We have even received some criticism from some media that a lot of money from the budget is going to pensions and that more should be invested in others given the knowledge society, the knowledge economy, economic growth, etc. However, we stand on the point that people who have earned a pension need to retire and pay because they earned their pension by their work and by the law that allowed them to do so. So it's not true that it was any pre-election trick. It would be a pre-election trick if people didn't get more money but it stands, so you said in part something true, partly incorrect. It says not everyone gets it. So that remark stands, we knew it, but we also knew that when we went to solve the problems of the new pensioners that it was one inherited problem that my government had in the first term and that it inherited from you. I'm not going to say now that you could have solved it, that it might have been solved by Matthew's government because there was a reform of the pension system at that time, but the fact that it fell back on this government. You were the minister of your assembly, in that assembly of the Parliament when you had the coalition government, may I counter what you did as Minister of Racan's Government. ... Allow me to use this question in my answer, and what you as Minister of Racan's Government have done to make new pensioners less retired than old pensioners do. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You didn't do anything because we, like that, solved it in the summer of last year, and it's good that we solved it and we solved it together with retirement associations and coalition partners and with all those who raised their hand for the law. And I am announcing here that we will continue to take care of both pensioners and all those budget users in a way that is only possible and that we can and must also take care of the possibilities of the state. If the possibilities of the state are greater, we may be able to resolve some more questions among those mentioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u606	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u607	Mr. Prime Minister, of course I'm not happy. First of all, I'm starting with this, so it's about the state's ability to always take care of the poorest. I repeat from my question about 200 thousand poorest pensioners did not exercise the right to add-on. And please forgive me if you think it wasn't a trick then your current and current Deputy Prime Minister lied to the Croatian public. I'm sorry, but it's the only possible conclusion. And since you're asking me what our coalition government has done for the pensioners, then I'll tell you again. In January of this year, you reduced your average pensions to 38% of the average salary. The coalition government left you the average of 44%. Mr. Prime Minister, I ask you a written answer to my question and I also remind you that you owe me a written answer to my past parliamentary question and I ask you to deliver it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u608	Thank you very much. I just thought I wouldn't have to intervene today, but please. You could say instead of telling the vice president he's lying, you could say a little easier, say he's not telling the truth. So I'm asking you to use a little softer qualifications. It's Mr. Representative Davor Huška's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u609	Thank you. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Croatian Prime Minister, distinguished members and members of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues. I ask the question to Minister Petar Cobankovic, Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy and the question concerns hunting, i.e. management of hunting sites in the area of the towns of Pakrac and Lipik. Mr. Petar Cobankovic, while he was Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy in the previous term of the Croatian Government, has done a lot for all five hunting companies in the area of the towns of Pakrac and Lipik. I recall that hunting societies and their members have been sued for excessive shooting by savages and have proved in the court proceedings that they are crossing wild boars as the consequences of the Homeland War and the release of a large number of domestic pitted pigs into the woods and not savages, and have been cleared of the indictments, all of which has led to a delay in granting prior consent to contracts by the Ministry of Agriculture. And while they had no formal right to manage the hunting grounds, Minister Cobankovic found the opportunity to achieve it and until today they had stamps and temporarily managed hunting sites. It should be recalled that there are five hunting companies in the Pakrac and Lipik cities with almost 400 members of which 90% of Croatian defenders and that hunting sites are polluted with mines lagging behind the Homeland War which makes it difficult to control. Today, the situation is such that all five hunting companies have received the previous consent of Minister Cobankovic, whose new ministry continues to hunt for a contract to restore the right to hunt on the hunting grounds in question, but the procedure is stuck in the state's attorney's office and still continues. I ask Mr. Cobankovic's question on behalf of all four hundred hunters from the Pakrac and Lipik cities, whether it can affect the end of the process and that the contracts become valid, that is, when hunters can expect the end of this process because I remind you that in the event that all five hunting grounds do not happen by 31.3. this year, they are likely to continue to be managed by hunters in the Pakrac and Lipik areas who deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u610	Thank you. Mr. Minister Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u611	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear Mr. Representative, I fully agree with you that hunting is one significant activity and that hunting deals with a significant number of people who do business, enjoy hunting and the like. But just like any other activity, hunting is regulated by certain legal acts and hunting rules exist. There are also hunting inspections to monitor the enforcement of legal obligations. And so in 2003 certain irregularities were identified in these five hunting grounds, a court case was initiated, and until the court case was completed, the ministry could not give prior consent to the county headship because it was joint hunting sites which are in the jurisdiction of the county and it is not about state hunting grounds at the disposal of the ministry. And when they were completed by hunting societies, the ministry issued a prior agreement that they could get hunting grounds further into the lease. We passed this on to the county office, the management office, and I believe the county office went into the extension of the contract. And from your question, you're probably saying that this job is done that it's waiting for the State's Attorney's office. The State's Attorney's Office is obliged to give a clause of legal validity to each contract relating to certain activities and I believe that it is then there, we can say that the process is at an end if the contracts are in the State's Attorney's Office. And we will see from our side together with Požega-Slavon County as far as the situation has come regarding the question of these leases of these hunting grounds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u612	Thank you. Mr. Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u613	I thank you for your response, and I believe the hunters in the Pacrac and Lipika area will be pleased with this answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u614	Thank you. We'll ask three more questions and we'll have a short break. It's Mr. Kresimir's corner.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u615	Your Honor, Mr. President, I would like to refer the question to the Foreign Minister, Mr. Jandrokovic. In front of us, we hope a period which could have a particularly important place in the overall Croatian state policy. Bucharest, obtaining an invitation, full membership in NATO, intensifying negotiations and entering the European Union in 2009, and already today Croatia participates in the work of the Security Council. Ambitious or realistic goals. However, NATO, the European Union and the Security Council as well as the entire international community face a problem called international terrorism. That is the greatest evil of the modern world. Croatia will chair the Security Council's terrorism prevention committee for the next two years. Given the position of the Security Council in the international community, this Committee could be a joint, co-ordination and integration point aimed at uniting all efforts of the European Union, NATO and the UN, as well as the entire international community to prevent this problem, but I would say first and foremost by understanding this phenomenon, by better understanding of modern terrorism. The strengthening of the body's coordination role under the Croatian presidency could at the same time strengthen the overall international position of the Republic of Croatia. As you can see, Mr Ministers, the position and role of the Republic of Croatia, or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in the coordination and unification of all these activities through the competent authorities of the European Union, NATO and the UN Security Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u616	Thank you very much. Minister Jandrokovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u617	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Representative Cosic, that's right, Croatia is with 1. 1. In 2008, we were elected to, as a non-permanent member of the United Nations Security Council, and as of 3 January this year we were also elected chairman of the Anti-Terrorist Committee, one of the most important committees operating within the Security Council. One committee dealing with the biggest challenge of the 21st century, which is the fight against international terrorism. As you mentioned, it is indeed a great recognition for the Republic of Croatia, which confirms the extremely strong international position of the Republic of Croatia, because not only do we expect an invitation for NATO from the Bucharest summit in early April of this year, to negotiate full membership of the European Union, but we have also received confirmation in this way that we are an esteemed state in international circles, we have received confirmation that we are an esteemed state in international circles, we have confirmed that we have the capacity and maturity to deal with such responsible and important issues as the fight against international terrorism. In addition, I would like to say that our main interests within the work of the Committee or of the Council security will be precisely topics and problems related to stabilising the situation in Southeast Europe, but also to preventing, topics related to preventing the spread of weapons of mass destruction. It's also one of the key topics of modern times. The position given to us by the chairmanship of the Anti-Terrorism Committee is extremely strong and allows us to coordinate and co-operate with the member states of the European Union and of the NATO Alliance, which we will certainly do, but we will give one additional value, given the knowledge of the issues of Southeastern Europe and our experience and knowledge, we can certainly further strengthen the international position of the Republic of Croatia. As regards the very structure of covering the work of the Security Council and the Anti-Terrorist Committee, the main central state body to deal with this is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration. But also, we will work closely together and co-operate with the Office of the President of the Republic and with the Office of the Prime Minister. We've also strengthened our mission in New York, so today we have 14 diplomats, very experienced, very quality,... diplomats working on that mission. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have strengthened and coordinated all activities with our NATO mission, with the European Union. And I think that through the work of the Security Council, through the work of the Anti-Terrorist Committee, our cooperation with the Member States of the European Union and NATO will receive one additional value that will benefit us for the future international positioning of the Republic of Croatia and thus for our internal development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u618	Thank you. Mr. Kresimir Cosic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u619	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. Certainly, I am pleased with the answer, because the strong position of the Republic of Croatia in the international community is reality, reality. I would like to improve the coordination of the work of these institutions of the Security Council, the UN, NATO and the EU in preventing international terrorism and, first and foremost, to reiterate what you said through a more complete understanding of the nature and phenomenon of this greatest evil of the modern world. This is a major challenge not only for the Republic of Croatia but also for the entire international community. New ideas and new concepts that will not be dominantly exclusively based on military force are certainly an important contribution and contribution and a new added value that the Republic of Croatia can provide. Better understanding of sociological, cultural as well as other social reasons and phenomena from which international terrorism originates. The Croatian contribution to this plan can play an important and key role through its chairmanship of this important UN Security Council body. With wise and well-designed work in this complex body of the international community, the Republic of Croatia can further strengthen its international position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u620	Thank you. It's Mr. Agent Daniel Mondekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u621	Dear President, honourable members of the government, respected colleagues and fellow parliamentary deputies. I refer my question to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and European Integration, Mr Jandrokovic. Mr Minister, as you know, the Republic of Croatia has the right to use most of the EU's pre-accession assistance programme since 2005. Although the Government of the Republic of Croatia has recently blocked 1 billion kunas of FAR in the last three years, it has reduced the first component of the IPE programme by 35 million kuna, with the announcement that it can block the entire programme, which is almost another billion kuna, and has threatened to implement certain measures that will not end the SAPARD theft which will result in our farmers losing tens of millions of kunas. Also, if you have read the European Commission's analysis, you can see that there have been cases of release of privileged information from the body of the state administration and related to projects worth around 2 million euros. This also found an almost rude disregard for the deadlines set for the submission of documents and the adoption of acts. I ask you, Minister, to answer me who is responsible for this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u622	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u623	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Representative Mondekar, first of all, I would like to tell you that the question of the use of pre-accession funds is not original in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration, but regardless, I will give you an answer to your question. It's not true that the funds from pre-accession funds are blocked. It's the first and the wrong thesis. There has already been a temporary delay in the use of these funds, with Croatia getting some time to adapt its institutions to the use and exploitation of those resources available to us by the European Union. As for the usability of the funds I have here data concerning the exploitation of the Cards programme and they are extremely high until for over 95, 96% of the funds from the PHARE programme, ISPA and SAPARD are still not fully able to talk about them for the reason that they are not yet finished. So I reject the thesis that it's blocked, that it's come, that we have big problems. We don't have any big problems. We have the same difficulties as other countries that were in the EU pre-accession phase because they are extremely demanding and complex procedures, complex procedures. We have prepared a large part of the work, prepared a large number of institutions and certainly what will show you and the period ahead that we will also have a degree of exploitation of pre-accession funds greater than the countries that have entered the last wave of entry into the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u624	Thank you. Mr. Representative Daniel Mondekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u625	Mr. Minister, it's not even a problem to set up 100% of the projects. The problem is, then, what's going on. And so information is released, deadlines are not respected and so on. If the government were really like this now that, once again, it boasted, if the government had really done its job including community programmes, not just pre-accession aid programmes, then our agriculture would have been more competitive. Our companies would be much more on the European market. Our science and education would be better quality. Our institutions would be more prepared at the end. And citizens wouldn't have to worry if the government would have to raise loans again instead of grants. That's the problem. How long are we gonna wait for this to change? I ask you a written answer so that we can compare it to the European Commission's analysis and show it to the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u626	Thank you very much. And Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u627	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers. I'm referring the question to Madam Secretary Jadranka Kosor. The lowest fee for blind people in Croatia is 280 kuna which is the lowest amount of compensation compared to all other European countries. The fee is EUR 750, in Germany EUR 500, in Slovenia 300, in Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina 175. Even in Albania, it is more than in Croatia. Ms. Kosor, as minister, has promised this since 2004, but until today it has not been done. Just as Prime Minister Sanader has not received the Croatian Federation for the past four years. He probably didn't do it himself, since Deputy Prime Minister Polancec on HTV replied that the Prime Minister couldn't respond to every letter. On that point, I think the president's as quick as I am. Here as mayor, I have one whole elaborate that is related to the ownership of the Republic of Croatia. It is the former administrative building "Mimosa" so after this, if he allows it, after this question and the answer of Ms. Kosor, I will give it to him. This whole problem has been going on for five years. This new government has not even put aside the former government's decision to move all state institutions into that building. The building is now abandoned and collapsed. So my question to the Minister is why does this blind person's fee not rise from these embarrassing 280 kunas to the amount that exists in other, other Eurospecies countries? And my proposal is to make this amount a minimum of 50% of the average salary in Croatia which the state budget will not burden more than 20 million kunas since there are about 6000 blind people somewhere. In Croatia. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u628	Madam Vice President Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u629	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Mr. Representative. First of all, to your findings on the question of whether I promised something in 2004 that I didn't do, that's incorrect. I didn't promise anything that I couldn't do. So neither did the government whose member promised anything that it could not carry out especially for people with disabilities. So I think I can say that in the past term, we have done a great deal, first of all, to sensitize the public of all of us to persons with disabilities and so to the blind. But that we've done a lot of concrete steps, so a lot of concrete projects. Here's the last one, just before I spoke to MPs Lukačić about the Attorney General's Office for Persons with Disabilities. As for the blind, or the Alliance of the Blind, their receipts in the Government. I must say, they've been admitted several times. That their member and member of the Committee for Persons with Disabilities and that we have considered what you are talking about, of course, and on several occasions at the meetings of the Committee for Persons with Disabilities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia where, as I have already said today, people with disabilities. What's a joint proposal is actually to level all these fees. To even the approach. To even the standard for all the most difficult disabled people in Croatia. I personally also consider it to be the best and only possible approach. However, I would like to remind you that we have done several important things for the blind in the past term. I'll mention one project that we first launched. This was the translation of textbooks for primary and secondary school students at the "Bravica" which was highly welcomed especially in the Alliance of the Blind. That before the end of the last term, for example, we have just faced some problems that are not resolved in the Alliance of the Blind, agreed that in the next term, or in this post-account, we in some way co-finance and provide for an employee in the Alliance in order to facilitate their work and all that is to be done. Here we will now promote the Bible for the blind in a few days with one association of blind. So what I'm saying at the end is a lot has been done, but of course I agree with you in promoting and protecting the rights of people with disabilities. We must never get tired, we must never stop working, and I am sure that these problems you mention too, but we must always look at them in the context of all the most difficult disabled people in Croatia, of course, to the satisfaction of all. As far as the Prime Minister's reception is concerned, it is absolutely certain that the Prime Minister is indeed a person who, if he has some sensitivity that he has shown in the past term, and this is especially true for persons with disabilities and all of the activities we have started and successfully spent precisely thanks to this support of the Prime Minister Dr. Eve Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u630	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u631	I am not satisfied with the answer since I did not ask for projects or the financing of projects of the blind associations. I asked about the fee for the blind, so at this point it is 280 kn, and only summer time, one day of vacation in their spa on the island of Solti is 180 kn per day. Monthly food for those who are lucky to have a guide dog is about 450 kuna, etc. etc. So the proposal was to make it 50% of the average salary in the Republic of Croatia. Otherwise, what happened in the parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina may happen if all the blind come simply here to the Parliament and practically disable that work, and I would ask the Prime Minister to address the issue of this building of mimosa in Djakov, Slavonia as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u632	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. I have one notice from the board president Nevenka Majdenić. The 4th session of the Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee will be held at a break beyond the current hour. So, not now, but later in Ivan Kukuljevic's hall at the bank and I announce the first after break that will be up to 12 hours and 30 minutes. So exactly at 12 o'clock and 30 minutes is the extension of the session and this current clock. The first is Mr. Zdravko Kelić, then Emil Tomljanović, Damir Caine and so on. Thank you. At 12:30. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we are continuing with parliamentary questions. It's Mr. Zdravko Kelić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u634	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Prime Minister, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I refer my question to Mr Pankretić, Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. Mr. Minister, we are aware of the complex situation in the Croatian village, and especially the difficult situation among the agricultural producers who welcome all the help. The model of capital investment is one pillar of the agricultural policy reform aimed at fostering the development of agricultural economies. You often point out in your statements how it is necessary to keep and strengthen capital investments, so my question and it says: How successful is this model and how much funding has been given for this model so far?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u635	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u636	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, I can say that and confirm what you said, that in reality the model of capital investment is definitely confirmed. We started with its application in 2003, I would say we start with some modest 13,14 million kunas so that today here for last year, according to the data, we would already have a 157 million kuna investment, which we can say is more than 10 times the increase which is enough to say that, in any case, that part of the investment through investments towards farmers has brought it back to life, that they have accepted it. Our thinking is that this model should be particularly highlighted in the future. Although we have some difficulties now, we know what is the competitiveness of our family economies, what is the competitiveness of total agriculture when we measure ourselves with the countries of the European Union, but we also know that now is the first time to invest, to invest in agriculture so that we can pick up in a different way then I would say the fruits of that. We must certainly invest in new technology, we must invest in new farms, we must invest in all those capacities that in the future will contribute as many times as we have so far and highlighted the reduction in the balance of payments deficits, and we can only do so if we have our agricultural producers, our companies at the level of competitiveness in our environment. That is why we have foreseen in the budget in particular, and I sincerely believe that you, as Parliamentarians, will also support this budget, that we are going with significantly greater investment precisely in this part of capital investment. So the increase we're predicting in this section relative to last year is twice as much because we think it's a real model that will help our family economies, our companies invest, and we can't invest because we know what the situation is, given the lack of funds, we know what the situation is in terms of and obtaining certain funds, so we're here and we've expanded some of the operational programs that will apply not only more to pig production, not more to beef production, but we've put both goat and sheep production and vegetables. We are aware of the situation as it is today, especially in the vegetable and fruit market, we are aware that more investment is needed in that part too. It is also considered changing the rules on capital investments because we believe that 25% of grants are not enough to justify certain investments and we believe that we will succeed here in agreement with the Government in thinking, increase that amount of funds that it amounts to somewhere between 30% and 40% of the grants that would go into such investment investments. We believe that in this way, in reality, we will help the competitiveness of Croatian agriculture and bring it to the level that we will also reduce the balance of payments deficit as regards agricultural food products. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u637	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zdravko Kelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u638	I thank you, Mr. Minister. I think this is the only road that is the right way and that can lead the Croatian village to the level that we want, which is that man can live decently in our Croatian village. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u639	Thank you. It is also Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u640	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I refer my question to the Minister of Justice, Mrs. Ani Lovrin, and that is what it says. Supposedly not to conduct a public survey on the perception of corruption by the Ministry of Justice, it was a recent topic in the media and was even explained by one of the prominent legal experts, so law experts. My question is specifically: Has the Ministry of Justice conducted public research and, if so, the results of this research. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u641	Thank you. Ms. Secretary Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u642	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Mr. Representative, here, as we all know, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed, this Croatian Parliament has adopted a programme against corruption in 2006-2008 and then it has been adopted by assessing the state of corruption in Croatia on the basis of perception because at that time it was the only indicator of the situation and not only because we believe that the perception of corruption for citizens itself is harmful for the reason that a citizen, regardless of the actual scale of corruption, feels bad and uncomfortable if he has a permanent impression of living in a country and living in an environment that is corrupt. But the Croatian government has shown strong political will and determination to deal with the fight against corruption. In order to be able to do this as best as possible, it is of immense importance that a systematic survey on the actual scale of corruption, because the problem of perception without me being misunderstood, that I am not reducing the seriousness of the problem, but the problem of perception in corruption is not only Croatia, there are other European countries, that perception is always slightly higher than the actual scale of corruption. Therefore, the government has made a decision to provide funding for one systematic survey and this is given as a job to USKOK, the USKOK department, the USKOK research department. It is true that this research is late for the reason that USKOK has had some technical problems and the procedure has stalled, and above all because it is the budget money that needs to be used transparently and there has been some problem with the implementation of the entire procedure in accordance with the Public Procurement Act. I firmly reject any speculation that we could listen to and read these days to deliberately delay this for a reason why, so it is already prejudged that these results would be bad for this Croatian government or the former, before the election. What is true is that this Croatian government had no fear of what was exactly the other way around in the past term. The first time since 1999, when Croatia was first covered by this survey, the assessment of the perception of corruption has been the best since '99. 4.1 and at the end of the government's term, which is truly an extraordinary success. I must also say that, in addition to this assessment of perception, the government has indeed passed over the past term and, in the follow-up to the fight against corruption, there are indicators of statistical and numerical indicators not only through a series of preventive actions which, above all, make public service a brom, clear and transparent, which is a fundamental job in which corruption is reduced. There are also results in the processing and conduct of court proceedings, and this is the result of the legislative framework that we have created and strengthened USKOK as a special department of the State Anti-Corruption Attorney's Office. So in 2007, we have an increase in judgments, so judgments by over 50%. We have 150% increase in anti-corruption applications, which means that all the workshops that the Ministry of Justice carried out gave results where we told citizens that corruption should not be agreed to, that it should not be accepted as a normal state of affairs, but that there are institutions to which it should be reported. And yet, the Department of Justice...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u643	Thank you very much. Finish it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u644	It has not done anything but carried out two of its research on the actual scale of corruption and then, by the basis of these research, it can take action for concrete action. And the creation of the perception of corruption happens...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u645	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u646	When a flat-rate is assessed and not reported to competent authorities who can then have results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u647	Thank you. Please, let's stick to some of these regulations of ours. Here you go, Mr. Tomljanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u648	I am pleased with the answer, of course, and I thank you for your comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u649	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Damir Caine's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u650	Dear President, gentlemen of the government! I want to ask either the Prime Minister or Mr. Shucker. We are probably all, the public thinks that this 2008 will certainly be one of the most difficult years after the years of the Homeland War, or after the '99s. the year when there was intervention on the former SR Yugoslavia, which is why we had negative growth, etc. I don't even want to think about something like that. For now, I want to deal with prices. At a terrible price, I agree, the government can't even influence. Croatia is an import destination. We're importing 23 billion dollars of goods, food is somewhere in our imports of 10 billion kuna. So if the price of food is growing in the world, then it's growing in Croatia. It's the same with oil, etc. But compared to December 2006, consumer prices rose by 5.8% in December 2007. In January inflation is already 6.2%. How long will it be in February to see it? In these prices, food products have grown the most, and realistically by 11.4%. So the price of vegetables increased by 23% in a year, fruit by 21%, oil, fat by 31%, milk, cheese and eggs by 17.7%, water supply and utility. And I'm stressing that by 6%. Energy 7%, etc. The government is trying to reason with bakers, milkers to correct the price as well as influence cities. But is the state ready to reach out to the only effective measure when it comes to food prices, which is VAT correction? Why? There are no gentlemen of the state who have no so-called so-called state. Differentiated VAT rates on food. And that's why food in Italy, Slovenia, Austria, is much cheaper in one rich Switzerland than in Croatia. So, the question is whether the state will correct that VAT on food, if for nothing else and then because we remember the pre-election promises from 2003 when public meetings said that VAT from 22% would drop to 20%. These were some long, good or less good times but surely this 22% VAT on food is not good and should in some way be corrected.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u651	Thank you. The Prime Minister's reply, Mr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u652	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Agent Cain! I agree with you that the situation in Croatia is as difficult as it is in other countries, but that we cannot take care of what is there, nor can we, nor can it comfort us. But it is important to know that inflation in the Member States of the European Union, including the members of the Euro Zone, is therefore the Monetary Union, that prices are not only crude oil, barrels, but also prices of food products on the world market are rising very quickly and that all this affects Croatia as well. We have an additional problem that you cited, which is a high rate of imports. Now, what can the government do about it? Thank you for saying one fact, but you have to say again and again, the Government, unfortunately, cannot affect the free market of those who form prices. It has a very, very limited impact. But the government can have its own influence in fiscal policy. That's what you're saying at the end of your question. But before the government did in the last semester of 2007, what does it do today? We didn't know there'd be a big drought in Croatia last year. She was one of the biggest droughts. And we couldn't predict this drought or any financial injections we couldn't predict in the 2007 budget. However, we found 450 million kunas in the second half of the year in order to reduce the damage caused by drought. We have equally introduced floating excise duties for which we have only in the last quarter or maybe a month more than 160 million kuna for our citizens, car drivers to have lower prices and that the high price of oil barrels would not affect the price in Croatia. So it's a concrete help from the government. 450 million damage to the drought and plus 160 million, that's 610 million kuna that we only invested at the end of the year. Now, thank God we've succeeded in these three products. At least in a way. Not all of us listened, but some listened and reduced the price of bread, oil prices, and milk prices. We also managed not to raise the price of gas and electricity by summer. So that's what the government can do. We also appeal to cities to reduce municipal services, reduce the price of municipal services, appeal to banks, appeal to all others in Croatia to take care of society and the country in which they earn their profits. That was also the question this morning from the distinguished representative Stazic and my answer. We appeal to them because they must take care together with all of us that in Croatia today, the situation is such that we all must bear together every part of our responsibility and every part of our burden. What else can the government do? The government will certainly consider your proposal as well. That's our proposal, too. But when you compare us to the Member States of the European Union where you talk about VAT rates, you need to know that they do not have a zero VAT rate and we do. And some of the lands you mentioned do not have. Therefore, in our term of office, last term we reduced VAT to tourism from 22% to 10% for Croatian citizens because it was unfair, because foreigners paid 0% and Croats paid, Croatian citizens 22%. We have reduced the rate of tourism to 10% and reduced the VAT rate to 10%, which is also less than 12% before. Now, the second question is whether the publishers transferred it to citizens, to customers, to readers or not, but the government can't control it. What we can do is do it. Will we consider a possible reduction in VAT rates in this term? My answer is yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u653	Mr. Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u654	Well, let's say I'm partially satisfied. I am not satisfied with this 22% VAT rate, although I agree that Western European countries do not have a zero rate on food products from 5 up. But that's exactly 22% of what makes food expensive at the start. Italy, Slovenia, Austria, I don't know Switzerland has these differentiated rates. Prices will rise, the crisis is growing, our environment is unstable. Salaries can't track inflation, and they won't. The budget is growing above inflation and we are all going to live harder together. So the battle for the standard must be one of the main battles or tasks and parliament, and government, and unions, and the public, etc. I agree that the towns of Pula should also stand on the ball. And that's where we can also agree. But once again, I stress, through the 22% VAT, the government has the strongest impact at the moment on the prices of at least food products. It's just like that, and that's why we kind of need to copy what the countries in our environment have achieved. And we hold you to the word that there will be a VAT reduction.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u655	Thank you very much. It is Mr. Representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u656	Thank you very much. Mr. President and members of the government, Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. My question is about the City Bank of Osijek, which is in bankruptcy, you won't believe for nine years. For nine years now this bank has been being manipulated by trustees. There are 4000 and 500 savings left from the City Bank that have not been paid to this day. The bankruptcy lasts nine years. I'm sorry there's no Deputy Prime Minister here, Mr. Polancec, because I made a written statement yesterday and indicated that the question was addressed to him. However, it also refers to Ms. Justice Minister Ana Lovrin who is not present because over the nine years, a series of illegal decisions have been taken and related to the change of the 2002 Banks Act. This bankruptcy is governed by the Bank Act. Why Mr. Polancec? Because he's also head of the Department of the State Agency for Savings and Rehabilitation of Banks, which the City Bank asks for, you will know that because you are in DABA Management, 676 million kuna. The savings are in the third payment order, the bank had 450 million kunas a month ago. Instead of paying for 4000 and 500 savings in the amount of 180 million kuna, the bankruptcy manager orders a deposit in Croatia's postal bank at 5 years per interest of 5.5%. Let me be convinced, because of all these events, that it is financial engineering, deliberate damage, manipulation and suspension of the savings of the City Bank of Osijek. And I ask you to answer my question when will this bankruptcy end, why is it being spent so long, when will the savings of the City Bank of Osijek be paid off? And when USKOK enters the City Bank of Osijek and determines what happens in the City Bank of Osijek over the nine years, the rest of these 4 and a half thousand kunas have been cut off today for 180 million.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u657	Thank you. Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Damir Polancec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u658	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Mr. MP. Therefore, as regards the City Bank of Osijek in bankruptcy and the rehabilitation and restructuring programmes, and the withdrawal of that bank from bankruptcy, they can say the following. The biggest creditors of the City Bank Osijek are primarily the State Agency for Savings and Rehabilitation of Banks, then saving and, of course, some other creditors above all. I must say that we have defined along with the bankruptcy manager the bankruptcy program as follows. The idea is, above all, that the bankruptcy manager and the savingsman acknowledge so far the disputed claims of DABA from the company in bankruptcy. After that, to be charged with about 400 million kunas he would have invested and on the one hand used to pay off all the savings in the total amount and on the other hand he would have used the remaining funds of those 400 million kunas for the recapitalisation of the Post Office Bank. In this way I would like to point out once again, everyone is saving up the City Bank of Osijek in bankruptcy would be completely calmed down. And why it hasn't been implemented so far, even though we have signed such a deal and protocol with the bankruptcy manager. For the simple reason that part of the savings was hired by a lawyer who disputed the continued claims of DABA in bankruptcy and that is completely unclear to me why they are doing it. Because once again, if we agreed to such an option, the savings would completely settle down. Last piece of information. The latest information since yesterday was held at the State Agency for the Rehabilitation of Banks with lawyers representing that small group of savings, the latest information is that a deal has been made, that a deal has been concluded and that we can expect, therefore, a complete payment of the savings. In this way, the claims of DABA would be recognised, so that it could be charged with 400 million kuna, transferred, the rest of the money that would not be used to pay the savings, therefore, in the Croatian postal bank, capitalise on the Croatian postal bank. And what is most important, therefore, with these funds the Croatian Post Bank would set up a special, special sector in its composition, agro-business based right in Osijek, right in the premises of the city bank. So one move would actually lead to two victories, if you would allow me to use such a collopial term, so it would end up bankruptcy in the city bank of Osijek, completely resembling all the savings and setting up an agro-business within the Croatian Post Bank, with its headquarters in the region that is strongest in Croatia just for agricultural production, therefore, in Osijek and Slavonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u659	Thank you. Mr. Representative Šišljagic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u660	More corrections, but Mr. Polancec, the Agro Bank branch has already been established, in pre-election time, somewhere there at the end of October, November. However, it is that the state agency for the resolution of banks and the insurance of savings deposits, and you know it is in the fifth payment order under the Banks Act, is not in third but fifth under the 2002 Banks Act, and the third is in the 98th Banks Act. Therefore, creditors, or savings, have the priority of payment before DABA, before DABA, they are in the third payment order, first and second payment order claims are settled. The rest are savings. I ask you, by your authority, the Prime Minister also, that the third payment order that they are saving and the creditors pay off as soon as possible, it's 180 million kuna, the bank has already deposited 200, 300 million dollars every five years, so the funds have. And it is time to save Osijek after nine years, the City Bank of Osijek finally pays off. And I ask you a written answer, and once again I ask you for the authority of all those involved in this process, and especially Ms. Minister Anne Lovrin, to look at a little what happened with the illegal decisions of the Commercial Court in Zagreb during this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u661	Thank you very much. Ms. Representative Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u662	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, I would like to address my question to the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of the Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. In November 2007, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a programme to improve the quality of life in the families of the dead Croatian defenders, Croatian wartime wartime disabled and Croatian defenders of PTSD. What concrete measures does this programme contain, and how many Croatian defenders will be covered by it, and when can we expect the first results?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u663	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u664	Excuse me, Mr. President, Madam Representative, thank you very much for this matter. It is true that what you have just found in your question that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, at the end of last year, has also brought in a large programme and psychosocial but also medical assistance for all of these categories that you mentioned. In fact, based on experience in the past four years, we think that a new page should be turned on quickly about Croatian defenders and members of their families. Namely, since we have fulfilled all our obligations in the past term, including those inherited by the 2001 Law, when we had to repay a debt of about half a billion kuna and pay off all those who received judgments in courts of about 35 million kuna, etc., etc.... Based on experience, we have come to the conclusion that a special programme should be made for families and families of Croatian defenders who have suffered from post-traumatic stress disorder, for families of the most difficult disabled from the Homeland War and of course for children of the dead, imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders. Because we believe that this is also based on research, based on the experience that a new wave of aggression is coming on Croatia, which we are going to face, which is precisely in the families of those who have suffered the most severely. As a result, we have prepared a special programme, which has several important segments. So, above all, systematic care and assistance for children of Croatian defenders, especially from these categories, especially children who have lost their parents, we also predicted this through our employment programmes, because employment programmes are also directed towards Croatian defenders and children killed, imprisoned and missing. However, in this programme very concretely already this year we are predicting the start of systematic reviews for all of these categories that I have listed. We are also waiting for a budget, for this purpose we have secured around 3 million and 100, there will probably be something more, given some of the other projects that we are preparing with treatment in spas etc.. So about 2.5 thousand people in these categories, as we call them target groups, are going to take systematic checks. We do this, of course, in cooperation with the Ministry of Health and Social Care and based on these systematic reviews, and every year in the four-year period planned for which a programme has been made, we will send a certain group of people to a systematic review, get the results of these reviews and then go to other concrete measures. For example, according to the widows of Croatian defenders who died during the aggression on Croatia because it is unfortunately shown that there is literally one eruption, one explosion of malignancy, of course as a consequence of stress, hard life with young children and so on. So special programs, once again for each of these target groups. I believe that, of course, other institutions will, therefore, not only the Croatian Ministry of Defence but all those who can in any way help will be involved, because we also provide for institutional and non-institutional assistance, of course I think about, not only the Homeland War Association, but all other associations in Croatia that are involved in promoting and protecting human rights. Here are the shortest signs of that program. You'll follow him for the next four years and I believe he'll get good results. All in the protection of Croatian defenders and members of their families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u665	Thank you. Mrs. Christmas School. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u666	Thank you very much, Madam Minister, for your extensive explanation of my question, and I am sure that this program and all the measures that make it up will certainly help to improve life in defense families. As you mentioned, we have more and more defenders who unfortunately get sick, and in families, it happens, from cancer, this infamous disease. And that's exactly what this program is witnessing to us as well as to the defenders that it will certainly take care of that category. I am sure that everything will be implemented because until now you bring in the programmes and the measures that make up the programme have been implemented, and all these measures have been taken by our Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u667	Thank you very much. It's Mrs. Dubravka Shuica's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u668	Dear Mr. President, members of the government. I'm referring my question to the Minister of Tourism, Mr. Byce. We are all witnessing that last seasons of Croatian tourism had a culmination after the Homeland War, and especially last season had an excellent result on a very demanding world market. We know that this is a result of good, quality season preparation, public and private sector coordination, improved transport infrastructure. Also an image of Croatia as a safe destination. We hear that this year is also planning a 3 to 5% increase in traffic. We also know that the entire Croatian public, and especially the professional public and tourist workers, welcomed the establishment of a new independent ministry. Well, in that sense, I have a question for you, Mr. Minister. Are you planning any new incentive measures? And here I especially mean airline destinations like Dubrovnik. So to change or improve some encouraging measures in terms of attracting an even greater number of tourists. And are you planning in the next season because this one is probably already promoted enough, in the coming season, to open up some new broadcasting markets? In short, what are your expectations for the 2008 tourism year?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u669	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Damir Byce. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u670	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you to Mrs. Assembly MPs for asking. So right now, we can say that the 2008 forecasts are such that we expect 3% of the number of overnight stays and arrivals of tourists. That actually means we're going slowly towards 12 million tourists and 57 million and some nights. We expect to cross the EUR 7 billion line in terms of, of course, gross national income generated in tourism. And it is clear that this tourist season should be moderately good. The confirmation is not my opinion or government opinion, but the opinion of those working in tourism. I, as a tourism minister, also met with a number of professional associations where I would like to highlight my meeting for the Croatian Association of Hotelers who are currently doing "booking" and I can say that they are also optimistic. And that "booking" on our most important tourist destinations is actually very good. What I would point out, though, is that we want to make a move. In addition to those regular broadcasting markets as one I would say Germany, one Slovenia is going all the way to some new destinations. This is a question, for example, in this case and destinations that are in America, broadcasting markets or Japan. I'll point out that what you indicated was a question and a measure in 2008. We have proposed a series of measures in the state budget that should go towards promoting tourism exactly. I will point out that, of course, you as mayor of Dubrovnik are particularly interested in airline destinations. It's in this case, Dubrovnik. However, I must stress that Croatia is a signator of the Association Agreement and that there are certain restrictions on direct support in airline tickets and subsidies. Of course, there are other measures that we can certainly support these destinations in particular. As for our expectations, therefore, they are positive and I believe that "booking" will confirm our forecasts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u671	Thank you. Madam Representative Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u672	Well, here I am satisfied with the answer to this question. But I would take advantage of the occasion if you could use your influence on hotel homes in areas especially on the coast, and on their development policy. And in fact, the dynamics of their development and restoration of some hotels that are not always consistent with the dynamics of local administration and self-government with our spatial plans and so on. So if you can from the Ministry now that you have a special ministry, it affects that somehow that dynamics is aligned through your level.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u673	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u674	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My question is to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy, Mr Polancec. The good life of Croatian citizens is something that should be the priority of every government. Today in Croatia we are witnessing daily gatherings, and it collects what is most necessary, food products, milk, dairy products, fruit and vegetables. Inflation's in effect. The rate of 6.2% that was published a few days ago is the highest in the last 10 years. Croatian citizens have a hard time living, and I don't know if you know Mr Polancec Croatian pensioners live with an average of 66 kuna every day. 66 kuna for everyone. For food, housing, medicine, administrative fees and so on. The pension today is only 38% of the average salary. It's the lowest one in ten years. Unemployment is on the rise again and amounts to 261 thousand unemployed in Croatia. And instead of offering us some vision, some optimism, you inform us a few days ago that economic growth is only going to be 4.5% this year. Contrary to what you announced during the election campaign. And you argue that even countries developed in Europe like Germany are reducing their economic plans, which is not true. Germany has had a low rate of economic growth as a highly developed country for a long time. My particular question concerns the following: why does the Croatian Government not take concrete measures to enable the current improvement of the standards of Croatian citizens, and why does this Croatian government as well as the previous passively observe the poverty of Croatian citizens unable to create conditions for higher employment and higher net wages in Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u675	Thank you. Mr. Vice President Polancec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u676	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Parliamentary Representative, the inflation you mention is not only specific to Croatia. Inflation is a specific feature of all Central European countries. So, and it's mostly imported and it's a consequence primarily of global movements, primarily of the trend in the price of crude oil on the world market. The result, above all, is the financial crisis in the US market as a consequence of giving non-quality second-rate mortgage loans in the period behind us and this inflation and price rise primarily in food products is the result of a drought that has affected not only Croatia but the whole of Europe, especially Central and Eastern Europe. All of this has led us to the situation of rising prices in Croatia 5.8% in 12 months 2007 in partnership with the level of these prices of the same products in 12 months 2006. Just aware of the fact that price increases will take place this Croatian government, i.e. I apologize to the previous Croatian government has taken a number of measures already in last year and I am sorry that you have not met them. I'll just mention some. First of all, we introduced floating excise duties and thus gave up 170 million kuna from the state budget that we could collect from excise duties on oil derivatives. On the other hand, 450 million kuna from the state budget in the fourth quarter of 2007 was invested in reducing the negative effects of drought. We are aware of the fact that price growth will have an impact on the standard of living of Croatian citizens we went on to work together with Croatian employers, primarily food producers, but also traders managed not only to curb the rise of food prices, but also to reduce the prices of some key food products, i.e. to return to the level before the last pick-up. So reduced by a 10% circus. In order to influence the standard of living, but on the other hand, to give the economy a chance to develop, we went on and we said that we would look for internal reserves primarily in energy major companies and stop the planned increase in prices above all electricity, so the electricity will not collect for Croatian citizens, nor for the industry in Croatia, so in the first half of this year. Yesterday we also announced a deal that we reached with INA that there will be no rise in gas prices not only for Croatian citizens until half this year, but also for all so-called. Preferred customers. They are 31 for your information, and there will also be no rise in gas prices in the first half of this year. Recently, we had opportunities to visit the Czech Republic and then I had the opportunity to talk to their economy minister and compromise what the measures taken by this government and what they are in partnership with the measures taken for example by the Czech Republic. For your information, the Czech Republic achieved inflation in the first month and has an inflation rate of over 7.5%. All Central and Eastern European countries, almost all Central and Eastern European countries and in 12 months have recorded an inflation rate above the inflation rate recorded in Croatia, and I can say the same for the first month of this year. The result of the reduced price of food products that I have recently entered will be seen in between monthly inflation. So, in the second month, I have to say that inflation in the first month compared to the 12th month in Croatia is 0.7%. But I ask you to understand that it is not the biggest problem and the only problem of rising food prices, but rather the good part of the increase in utility prices, so I will remind you that in the city where the country's population lives, or almost 1/3, in the city where your political option to power is the rise of utility prices in the twelfth month and in the first repeat over 50% in some segments, so when we talk about what this government has done, This government has done a great deal and therefore believe me, the rate of economic growth of 4 and a half percent will be above the average economic growth rate in the partnership with the countries that we want to compare with. [[Intruder Shakespeare: Please conclude!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u677	Thank you. Dear Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u678	Thank you very much. I'm not happy with this answer. No, no, so I can be unsatisfactory, let me. I'll just look back at three things. The first thing you said was this historic success of a deal with employers and merchants. I'll give you just one example. A liter of oil cost 10 kn before the pick-up. After the gathering, I'm sorry after the pick-up she jumped to £14 or 15. After your deal with the merchants, she was 13 kn. So it's not 40, it's 30%. The other thing is the Czech Republic. You said we could compete here with the Czech Republic, but I wish Croatia could be combined with the salaries with the members of the European Union. Our salaries are 27% of the average European salary. And a third thing. This is what you mentioned in the City of Zagreb. There is within this rate of 6.2% that inflation on municipal services, Mr. Polancec, is less than one percent, so don't look at the data. So as far as this is concerned, the second thing that this Croatian government is concerned about is the most that can be seen from it. Mrs. Dropulić had just given one false information. Its shares rose the most from 2004 to 2008. When she bought them, they were worth 350 kn, 2004. It's worth £550, and today it's worth €11500. It has seen an additional growth of 17 million kuna over the past four years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u679	Honorable representative Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u680	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm giving my question to Mr. Prime Minister. The idea of the Law on civil servants should be the introduction of criteria of expertise, not political similarities when selecting former ministerial assistants, and today the director is in the ministries. You also wrote in your coalition agreement a programme of work of your government, which states that crucial criteria for selecting civil servants will be a good knowledge of the area, i.e. the restor, and professional competence. However, even today, directors of the administration, and in accordance with the new government regulation after a formal tender, are named after the minister's discretionary decision, not after a procedure that applies to all other civil servants. It is therefore clear that the actual objective of the regulation is to retain ministerial assistants appointed in the past term by political similarity, not by expertise and competences in their new old functions. My question is to you. Why didn't you respect the criteria of competence and why you re-securitized the government, ministries and state-owned companies politically similar rather than professional people who could get the country out of the current economic and political crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u681	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam MPs, first of all, I will take this opportunity to point out once again the illogicalness of the Rules of Procedure and to the fact that the HDZ Club will seek to amend the Rules of Procedure in the part where MP Maras e.g. Vice-President Polancec, after he responded instead of saying whether he was satisfied or not, explains whether he was satisfied or not, speaks about hundreds of topics. So,...... Please, ma'am, I'm not in your word. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So we'll ask for an amendment to the Rules of Procedure. And when it comes to your question, a few things you've misrepresented, I'll correct them. First, according to the new Law on the Professionalisation of Civil Servants, not politicisation, which was passed by this Government, that is, in the former... A council, but on my government's proposal. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's the first fact. It shows who wants professionalization and who wants politicization. Because if you wanted professionalization, it would have been you. We've passed that law, and we're going to do it exactly as it says. And it is not true that the Ministers are now making discretionary decisions by the directors or directors of the administration. No, but there's a competition going on right now that's going to be in all the ministries, and we've agreed on the criteria of the competition and there's a competition going on across all the ministries for these places. So no one's named anyone yet. There's no such thing as what you said. And third and finally. That the Croatian government in the last term did not implement what you said but rather the opposite, the fact is also your example. I know in particular that we offered you to stay working at the Ministry of Minister Matulović Dropulić, you yourself left despite being a member of the SDP, our proposal was to stay in the ministry, your decision was to leave.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u682	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, the respected representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u683	Mr Vice-President, the Rules of Procedure have been injured and that is, from Article 179 to Article 182 with particular emphasis on Article 182 which speaks about how the Prime Minister or members of the Government respond to parliamentary questions. I find it absolutely unacceptable in the Croatian Parliament this way to address the prime minister to one of the MPs or MPs. What does Mr. Prime Minister have to tell us about the Rules of Procedure and what will be done about the Rules of Procedure? Do we at the Parliament as parliamentary representatives in any way speak of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Government? I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, I don't think this is right, and I'm asking you another time, no matter who it is, to take your word from a member of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u684	The prime minister illustrated with one example how and why he thinks he is injured, that a new Rules of Procedure should be made, in particular, illustrates this. It doesn't come out of the box any of the usual standards of behavior. The government will not change the Rules of Procedure clearly but will change it if it changes it, the Croatian Parliament will change it. The Croatian Parliament will change it. Representative Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u685	Dear Prime Minister, you have not answered my question. What is saddening is that many of your staff, 11 of them so far, have not been able to pass even such a privileged procedure, which is why you promoted them to state secretaries with the highest salary coefficient of officials by one move of your prime minister's pen. State secretaries are nothing like mushrooms after the rain, we already have about 50, so the question is how the country that is sinking more and more into inflation will settle this rally, a massive and inefficient administration of political counterparts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u686	Dear Representative Mato Bilnjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u687	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. My question concerns the Department of Defense, or Mr. Secretary of State. Lately, we are aware that the media quite publishes texts about the delay in modernization of Croatian Air Force, it is written about frequent failures, shortages of spare parts for aircraft and helicopters which, in my opinion, is not so black when we know that the recent case of transportation of a pregnant woman who gave birth to God thanks in a helicopter, alive and healthy, and also on the Gasici polygon where our Air Force had an exercise, left an impressive impression. As a citizen, I believe that the patriotism of members of the Croatian Air Force is not questionable at all, so tell us what is the current state of the Air Force and the techniques, that is, when can we expect the modernisation of aircraft technology? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u688	State Secretary, Mato Rabotek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u689	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Representative, here's the correctness of the aircraft's technique, is satisfactory in view of the objective difficulties. Generally taking and not entering into the detailed design and regularity of certain types of aircraft in the Croatian Air Force, which would certainly help us to better illustrate the situation, however, by not entering a detailed laboratory, we can say that the regularity is moving somewhere above 50%, which is said much more than... /The speaker turned off and turned on again./... when the previous government came to power where the situation had been much worse. However, it should be said that this job, therefore 50% corresponds or slightly above 50%, corresponds to aircraft that are operationally fully correct and currently available. Other aircraft are located in different statuses, for example on regular technical examinations, which are mandatory after a certain number of hours of flight, repair, repair and non-use, where a smaller number of such aircraft will not be improved at all but serve as a source of reserve operations. In order to achieve a higher level of regularity of the aircraft technique, appropriate measures have been taken and taken. To increase flight safety as well as NATO standards, the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia are conducting modernisation. This means meeting not only NATO standards but also meeting civilian standards. Well, for example, I will give you a brief overview of what has been done in this respect in the plan of modernising Croatian Air Force in the past few years. Two Mi-8 MTV helicopters were modernised by installing identification devices based on the US FMF program. General remonting and modernization of M-32P transport aircraft has been carried out. A remonting and modernization of the Mi-8 MTV helicopter has been performed. Five sports aircraft have been purchased for pilot selection training. Contracts on the purchase of two new fire-fighting aircraft have been signed... , popular Canadians and three AirTractors AT 802. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Deals of resolution... The debt between the Russian Federation and the Republic of Croatia, so we got ten new Mi-171Š helicopters. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Four of those helicopters have already arrived. Three more coming in March. And in April and the last three. It's over. The HRZ and the PDO, in addition to their basic task of protecting the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia in the air and supporting the country's forces, performs a whole series of civilian tasks that are important to our citizens and are recognised as such. These are here, just to list: fire protection, search and rescue actions in cooperation with the Mountain Rescue Service, emergency medical intervention, participation in coast guard protection and other types of assistance to civil institutions. So, what we saw at the exercise in... is only one part of the skills that Croatian Air Force pilots constantly show in the behaviour of these numbered tasks of their daily lives. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We can say that Croatian Air Force will still have better conditions to work through measures of improved standard of living for its employees and by raising the level of regularity of aircraft technique.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u690	Dear Representative Mato Bilnjic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u691	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. And I hope... To equip all Croatian military species and tribes for the safety of all our citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u692	Honorable representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u693	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honored President of the Croatian Government, members of the government, colleagues and fellow representatives and respected guests at the gallery. I refer my question to the Minister of Health and Social Care Mr. Darka Milinovic. Looking at the current situation relating to the condition of the number of doctors in the Republic of Croatia, there is evidence that we are missing a doctor to fill all available places. In the Republic of Croatia there are 2.4 doctors per thousand inhabitants. In the hospital health care system in four main activities of surgery, internal, gynecology, maternity and paediatrics, according to our standards currently missing about 950 doctors. In the primary health care system to fill the basic network of health activities currently there are places for 150 general medical teams, 285 dental teams, 57 health care teams of women, therefore gynecology, and 85 paediatric teams. The bad situation is also with doctors specialists. We know the average age is over 50 years. The number of students enrolled at four medical schools in Croatia for years is the same and is about 400. The interest of young people, unfortunately for such a difficult occupation, is getting smaller. The study takes a long, six years, further specializing four to six years. There's been that one-year internship. So, uh... He could be really troublesome. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Moreover, it can be increased by liberalising the market since we are awaiting entry into the European Union. Not only that, but further reduction of the doctor will indeed result in health care for the population. I ask you to answer me what measures will you take to resolve the lack of a doctor in the Republic of Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u694	Minister of Health and Social Care Darko Milinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u695	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished MPs and distinguished MPs! Well, I'll start right from the end of your question and why young people's interest in the profession of health care, to enroll in medical school or dental school. Well, that's what I'm asking myself. And the problem with the lack of personnel in healthcare isn't since yesterday. It is a chronic problem and it is a major challenge for me as a health minister and for the new Government of the Republic of Croatia. I'll say something, my own personal thoughts. I think there's too much sensationalism about certain affairs in the health system. I am, as Minister of Health, convinced that 99% of healthcare professionals do their job fairly. There's no here in, I'm convinced, in the Parliament of colleagues who did not commit some part of their free time to the profession or dedicated it to the patient. And why now the demotivation of young people to enroll this one difficult and responsible calling is also the perception of the Croatian public that a large part of corruption is currently living in the health system. But I think together, healthcare professionals from all levels from nurses to doctors have to fight perceptions that sort of demotes young people to enroll in medical schools and end this one really complex and responsible calling. Also in the proposal for a new reform or in the reflection on a new reform will go the protection of the profession. I'm one of my first moves, I mean first or second day when I just became a minister, I went to Vodice to give clear support to the profession when she was right. And also clearly, here and now I want to support the "Diagnosis I and II" action, so stop or condemn those responsible for the perception of affairs or corruption in the health system. This government is making a series of moves that are trying to reduce the alarming state, and I'm going to agree with you in the healthcare system, from a paid internship for young doctors who are being hired, so, within three months of completing college, from calling for specialization. Today, not so long ago, we were happy to get any specials. Today we have reached the level of young doctors, young colleagues actually choosing a specialty they want to deal with. We also have a proposal to introduce new emergency medical specializations, some branches that are now at the sub-species level to bring down independent specialisation but we need to look for answers or cooperation both in the field of regional administration and self-government. Of course, the status of councilors I am convinced that at the end of this government, so at the end of this four year it will be better and of course I mean today when you become a specialist, it goes beyond you ten or fifteen years of various years, from college to various improvements and when you look at the status of today's doctor in the Republic of Croatia, I think he is also somehow responsible for demoting young people to access this responsible calling. So, a series of measures during and this first year, but also for four years, the government of the Republic of Croatia and my resolution ministry will do as well as the calling of specialization in the last three years, 2,000 600, 2 thousand 700 specializations were scheduled and from 2000 to 2003, in fact, in 1999 to 2003, there were only a thousand and 500 specializations. So, a series of measures we're going to take will go towards solving this one or entering into the process of solving this chronic health problem and the lack of health care personnel.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u696	Honorable representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u697	Thank you very much. I believe that these measures will indeed help to address this difficult current situation. And I agree with you, it's one media hack, people don't want to go to medicine. You know in your time and my time that there were seven candidates in the exam, and today it's barely a candidate. As far as local self-government is concerned, I can tell you that in Bjelovar-Bjelovar County and Bjelovarska Hospital, there has been an invitation to tender for an internalist for a year where the apartment is also available to him and we cannot get a final intern. There really is a shortage and a specialist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u698	Dear representative Nada Cavlović Smiljanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u699	Thank you very much, Vice President. I refer my question to the Prime Minister. Well, during the last term, the government secretly allocated millions of dollars from the state budget to closed cabinet sessions. The most interesting fact is that most of these funds have been allocated to... Governments and that after the Croatian Parliament was disbanded and after elections were called. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The unquestionable fact is that these funds have been allocated to pre-election campaigns and voter purchases. My question is whether and when the Government of the Republic of Croatia will begin to practice the detailed publication of the amount as well as the list of legal and natural persons to whom it has allocated funds from the state budget at closed parts of its meetings and for which the funds are allocated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u700	Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u701	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam MPs, according to the laws, everything obtained from the state budget is published in "The People's Newspaper", means what is both the annual report and the monthly report. Therefore, there is no reason for anything to be hidden or for anything to be seen. So all that the users of the state budget get it is published and it is in the monthly and annual report, and will come even to the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u702	I have to find out I'm not happy with the answer. I would only pray that this list is meant by legal and physical persons and amounts for the purpose of granting delivery by written means. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u703	Thank you. Honorable representative Mario Habek.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u704	Dear Vice President of the Parliament. My question is to ask the vice-presidents of the government to Mrs. Djurdji Adlesic. Mrs Adlesic, at a press conference in March 2006, you said the following, quote: "You are Croatia as a transition and tourist state with 300 thousand unemployed cannot allow a ban on Sundays.". You think differently today. Now I ask you what's changed? Either Croatia is no longer a tourist country or is it a Croatian state where there is no unemployment?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u705	Deputy Prime Minister Djurdja Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u706	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. Dear Representative Habek, I will gladly answer you and what has changed since then and what I personally think about it because I see you asking me so. In fact, what has changed has 40,000 less unemployed, it is certainly good information that certainly makes you happy. As for Sunday's work, I'll tell you that I really was the author of the law not on trade, but the Labour Act, where it was installed a whole series of points and not just work on Sundays. It's primarily a protection against mobbing that hasn't been built anywhere before that law. Then it was a protection against the gray economy with an obligation to pay overtime and with certain supervisions that should have been prescribed exactly when that surveillance was going. And the third is Sunday's work. The first points I have counted for you, so mobing, inspection findings and double-increasing penalties for those who do not pay workers who work on Sundays and holidays have also been included in the current bill of law to be found in front of MPs, however, it has not yet been debated at GSV. As the law passes on GSV, we will have the opportunity to see that because what the law refers to is social partners and unions and employers will certainly be stronger than what I personally think. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u707	Representative Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u708	Mrs. Adlesic, nothing seems to have changed except your position. You are today the vice president of the Croatian government and for those needs of that position you forgot all the ideas, you gave up all the ideas you had previously represented.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u709	Dear Representative Zivko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u710	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I refer my question to the Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure Mr. Bozidar Kalmeta. Given that there have been speculation in some media about the delay of our services in the rescue of the Turkish ship "UN ADIATIC", which took place on 6 February 2008, on 13 nautical miles west of Rovinj, can you tell us whether the Republic of Croatia intervened in this maritime accident in a timely manner and whether we are qualified to accept ships in this situation?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u711	Minister of Bozidar Kalmeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u712	... So here's me, before I answer this question, I'd like to say that today at 10 and 50 o'clock, this number where the UN ADRIATIC fire broke out is tied to a triscan port, and that's the first part of the story about that ship is over. [[You can't hear the speaker, you can't hear it.]] What we can conclude after all this has happened these days since the fire on that boat that carried the helmets started and to this day, we can clearly say that Croatia is qualified and ready for such and possibly similar unpleasant situations, unpleasant events that occur and which may possibly happen in the Croatian sea, either in internal territorial waters or in the ZERP. The public knows well and is monitored and well transmitted from day to day what happened to that ship, but here, I'm just going to say a few details to see how spottically it reacted. Namely, on the first day, the National Search and Rescue Centre received a tip from that ship in 5 hours and 4 minutes, but immediately after that, our national centre sent a call to all ships nearby to get to that ship and help the crew. As early as 7 and 6 minutes ago, the three ships closest to that ship that was at risk came to that ship, took over 9 members, 9 passengers and 20 crew members and drove them to Venice. That's when the ship stayed floating, the ship, so no anchors were thrown, and the ship was on fire. By 5 hours and 20 minutes, so, just 10 minutes after the tip, the tractors were on their way to that ship so that about 7 hours and 45 minutes would be at that boat's side. The day was immediately intruded by a canadian, put out an open flame, at one point and two canadians. And now that I'm not convincing what happened from hour to hour, the fact is that by the time two came... A tow truck that came on the second day, and by the time the specialized services from the Netherlands came to put an end to such a kind of fire that practically the ship was absolutely stable, under control, the fire was extinguished, and that our jars held it, held it so to say so under control, cooled it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So you can see from that that we absolutely did everything we had to do. In addition, the Institute of Public Health has been constantly controlling possible sea pollution, on the one hand, the ship's insurance company, on our request, provided guarantees for the costs that we had around that ship and for the possible pollution that could have occurred. Three stimulating locations were defined, and locations for, if necessary, that ship towed somewhere in one of ours, our coast, so it all went with one of its own during and finally to say what you asked the questions at the beginning. Croatia is absolutely ready for such and similar cases. Of course, we have to continue to develop, strengthen our fleet, and when it comes to coast guard, that's what the Secretary of State said before, so that I don't spread, but on this example, we've shown that everything worked the best way it could and that it's supposed to function in such a situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u713	Dear Representative Zivko Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u714	Dear Minister. I thank you and congratulate you for being able to prevent this disaster on our Adriatic from turning into a disaster. You've done it quickly and efficiently, so I'm satisfied with both the action and the answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u715	Dear Representative Frano Matušić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u716	I thank Mr. Vice President, and I welcome the Prime Minister and all members of the government. And I refer the question to the Minister of Culture, Mr. Bishop. Mr. Minister, on the occasion of the night of the museum we noticed that indeed a large number of citizens, a large number of visitors responded to the action and we were able to see them in all museums throughout Croatia. This action, the event, brought to the public's attention are museums, which are kept and presented in museums and are part of our history, tradition, art in one word Croatian national treasure, or Croatian cultural identity. However, some of these museums have been closed for most of the year. So I ask you what the ministry can do to solve this problem and that this cultural treasure and that it represents our cultural identity is an opportunity to present to our citizens as well as to all those who come to Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u717	Minister of Culture Bozo Biskupić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u718	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Representative. The night of the museum has actually shown that we are not enough just for one night, but that we also need museum days, because that night those museums that were opened with a very attractive program, ambitious marketing, managed to make it possible for some museums to wait for more than half an hour for you to even enter it. It is a sign, in fact thinking for all of us in culture, and especially for people who are engaged in the museum profession, that you should do quality programs, very attractive settings and from that night turn of course into days. Croatia has just over 160 museums and museum collections, visiting just over 2 million visitors annually. That number can be even if we don't double, and that at least a million visitors more if we can build an attractive program. I know about this problem that some museums are closed at an inappropriate time, especially we will, and we will prepare a new law on museums, there are in this profession and other shortcomings, in order to avoid it, but we will do as much as possible to make the nights of the museum become at, in tourist resorts and the days of museums and evenings in such a way and we will animate as many people as possible to see this part. There are just over 6 million moving buildings in Croatia, 6 million objects in our museums, many of us don't know, and we're in the dumps, and we still need to do a lot more and we're on the best track.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u719	Dear Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u720	Thanks, I'm happy with the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u721	And the esteemed representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u722	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, members of the government. In addition to a series of problems faced by farmers, swine fever is one of the special problems back in the year two. In particular, it was introduced by a decision to stop vaccination, against swine fever, which was at the time called rapid and irresponsible and unprofessional, and even sought the resignation of the ministry of the time. Today, counterpart Chehok talked about the problem, the problem of 12,000 households in the Varazdin County area. We heard from Mr. Pankretić that the problem is solved by one correction. Ministers are still the status quo, nothing was launched, information from half an hour ago. The problem is solved in a way that people will get about 20% less than it was a year ago in a way that the state solves 6 kunas. Two years ago, that was three kunas. The meat industry 4 kuna, two years or a year ago there were 9 kunas. 12 kunas got in a piece. Now he's going to get himself, first he's going to get the head of state behind that. The problem is therefore still present. Since agricultural production mainly solves problems from case to case. Structurally, nothing is solved. These problems are not just the consequences of the last unprofessional government. These problems are consequences and still in the days of President Racan and all other governments. My question is, in what time will the Ministry provide conditions for sustainable production in pigs?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u723	Thank you. Mr. Pankretic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u724	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have partially answered part of your question to the esteemed representative of the Czech Republic. I'll repeat the information that I have so far that deny this part that you're telling her about the ransom. I can definitely confirm that I am responsible to the Croatian public. 500 sets of uniforms were taken today and yesterday to Wade for further tongs from an area infected with classical swine fever. I have to say that the problem is that as far as swine fever is concerned has escalated last year, however, I can stress that all control and eradication measures are being done and implemented systematically as planned and in accordance with the regulations and I must say that these are isolated areas in that part. Unfortunately, it can't comfort those of our agricultural producers who unfortunately have swine fever. We, I, and this time I appeal to all those agricultural producers who are unfortunately hit by those who distort certain measures here, so it comes with a simple dictionary to a certain smuggling, certain purchases of pigs, and thus the transfer of diseases from the infected area. And it endangers all those correct producers who, unfortunately, cannot resist it. What we're doing right now is maximum. And you yourself noted that these intervention support measures are much larger than they were last year. But unfortunately our impact on the price, I must honestly say which one is on the market today is not in that part. Unfortunately, we have to say that the price of pig meat compared to 5 years ago today is almost 10% lower. Unfortunately, those are the prices. The market dictates and we can intervene as much as we're allowed in that section. I think we're doing everything we can to solve these problems especially in Varazdin County. We're already in the field as far as Međimurje County is concerned because I have a tip here from today that pig plagues are re-emerged there. We're going to solve these problems right now in that section. We have had one big meeting with all pig farmers but also with meat industries where we have turned our attention that we do not want to solve these problems right now but we have proposed clear long-term measures. Some of them, for a short period of time, I will mention here, and one of these measures is, of course, the adjustment of the price market because of the long-termness you were talking about, but certainly the additional investment needed in this sector. I have already talked about additional investment through capital investments, but I can point out that we will in particular step up the work to contribute to our agricultural producers being competitive. Personally, I think and I am optimistic about pigmeat production because pigmeat production has not only a tradition but also has certain comparative advantages. We all know that our area is good for corn production, and we know that it's almost 80% of the food in pig farming. I think in that part, but with the modernisation of investment in technology, but also in education producers, we can continue in the right direction. What's important is that I end up saying it. All that we've been considering with the strongest experts on swine fever, now that we've come to this level at which we are, it would almost be at the recommendation of all of them, which would be abolished in view of the entry into the European Union, given the directives we have not been good at. And we've estimated that we need to isolate all these cases but be on a daily basis helping our producers. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] in pigmeat. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u725	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u726	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, thanks to this particular one, you said a big meeting with the producers these people asked me to ask that question here today. I'm sure they didn't ask me because they didn't need it. And their patience is pressured by the unresolved situation and the gatherings, especially not to mention this theater with an increase in fertiliser prices. My question was concrete. In what time will the Ministry provide the conditions for sustainable production in pigmeat, so I ask you in this respect one written reply. And believe me, there's still hope for, for, for, for farm producers, and I'm sure they don't think hope dies last.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u727	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, we've finished this item on the agenda of the parliamentary issues. I would like to warn you about the session that was scheduled by Mrs Majdenic,... The selection and appointment committee. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The session continues at 15 hours and 15 minutes with agenda report Mandate-Immunity Commission. So 15 and 15. Have a good one! Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we proceed with the session and move to the first item of the agenda. A report from the Mandate-Immunity Commission please the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of Mr Sesvecan to take the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u729	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. So, we have the first report on the start of the term of office of MP Drazen Bošnjakovic and the start of the parliamentary mandate of Deputy Representative Stjepan Kundić. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 4th session held on 20 February 2008 the written request of MP Drazen Bošnjaković of 13 February 2008 informing the commission that he had been appointed on 31 January 2008 to act in accordance with Article 9. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament is incompatible with the duty to which it is appointed and to put the parliamentary mandate in a standstill. As Mr. Bošnjakovic was elected representative as a candidate on the Croatian Democratic Union list in the sixth election unit, the Croatian Democratic Community has determined, in accordance with Article 12(1) of the Law, that Mr. Stjepan Kubic, as deputy representative in that election unit, would start acting as representative instead of representative Drazen Bošnjakovic. The commission found that the conditions for the start of Drazen Bosnjakovic's term of office were met by law, as well as the conditions for the start of his representative, Stjepan Kundić,'s office. In accordance with the words, the Mandate-Immunity Commission, after the debate was held, unanimously proposes to the Croatian Assembly a decision on the stand-off of the MPs and the start of acting as MPs. On 31 January 2008, the rest of MP Drazen Bošnjakovic's parliamentary term of office and agent's duties in accordance with Article 9(2) began on 31 January 2008. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of 20 February 2008 began acting as Deputy Representative Stjepan Kundić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u730	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Who's in? Thank you. Does anyone mind? Restraint? There isn't. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u731	The next report is on the start of the stay of Parliament's representative, Danica Hursa, and the start of the parliamentary mandate of Deputy Representative Zeljko Vincelj. At the fourth session held on 20 February 2008, the mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed a written request for the rest of the parliamentary term, in accordance with Article 14(1). Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament was submitted by Danica Hursa, an MP at the Croatian Parliament by an act of 18 February 2008. As Mrs Hursa was elected representative as candidate on the list of the Croatian People's Party Liberal Democrats in the third election unit, the Croatian People's Party of Liberal Democrats has determined, in accordance with Article 12(1) of the Law, that Mr Zeljko Vincelj as deputy representative in that election unit, to act as representative instead of representative of Danica Hursa. The Commission has established that the law lays down the conditions for the start of the stay of the parliamentary mandate, as well as the conditions for the start of the conduct of the agent's office, its deputy, Zeljko Vincelj. In accordance with the said Mandate-Immunity Commission, after the debate was held, it unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament to adopt a decision on the stay of the parliamentary mandate and to initiate the conduct of the deputy representative's office, and on that day, so on 19 February 2008, it shall begin the rest of Parliament's representative's mandate, Danica Hursa, and the delegation's duties in accordance with Article 9(2). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of 20 February 2008 began acting as Deputy Representative Željko Vincelj.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u732	Excuse me. Previously, we voted in favour of Representative Stjepan Kundić, who began to hold the parliamentary mandate instead of Drazen Bošnjaković, and I confirm that the conduct of Mr Stjepan Kundić's representative mandate began and I warmly congratulate him. I am now opening a debate on Mr. Zeljko Vincelj's report, the representative of Danica Hursa. [[Applause.]] Is there any interest in the debate? There isn't. I am concluding the debate and putting forward a proposal for the Mandate-Immunity Commission to vote. Who's in? Thank you. Does anyone mind? There isn't. Restraint? There isn't. I note that the conduct of the representative, deputy representative of Mr. Željko Vincelj as representative of the Croatian Parliament, has begun and I warmly congratulate him. In accordance with Article 7, in accordance with Articles 7 and 8. The Rules of Procedures of Representatives Željko Vincelj, Stjepan Kundić and Branimir Glavas were not present or began to hold a parliamentary mandate at the constitutive session of the Croatian Parliament. [[Applause.]] I will now read the oath and ask the MPs to stand up and say, say the word “I swear” after this text. I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work with the Constitution and the law and the respected legal order, and that I will stand up for all progress of the Republic of Croatia. Representative Zeljko Vincelj?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u733	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u734	Thank you. Representative Stjepan Kundić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u735	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u736	Thank you very much. Representative Branimir Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u737	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u738	Thank you very much. Congratulations to the representatives on their oath and I wish to succeed in carrying out the honorable and responsible duties of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We will return the moment to the Mandate-Immunity Commission report for a colleague who replaces his colleague, Chachia. So please the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u740	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. So we have a report on the termination of Deputy Representative Miroslav Cacia's term of office and the start of the parliamentary term of deputy representative Stanko Grcic. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament held at the 5th session held on 22 February 2008, found that it was incompatible with the behaviour of the representative, in accordance with Article 10. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, suspended its parliamentary mandate and obtained conditions for the other deputy deputies to start acting as MPs. The commission found that Mr Miroslav Cacia, on 11 January 2008, began acting as deputy representative, running for office in II. The constituency as a candidate for the Croatian Peasant Party and the Croatian Social Liberal Party instead of Mr Damir Bajs. The Commission found that, with the termination of Mr Miroslav Cacia's parliamentary mandate and the coalition of the Croatian Peasant Party and the Croatian Social Liberal Party, they were in accordance with Article 12. The law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, on the person who, instead of Mr Damir Bajs, will act as a representative, has been met with the law laying down the conditions for the start of the parliamentary term of deputy representative Stanko Grcic. In accordance with the said Mandate-Immunity Commission, after the debate was held, it unanimously proposed to the Croatian Assembly a decision on the termination of the parliamentary term of deputies and the start of acting as deputy deputies. On 19 February 2008, he suspended the parliamentary term of office of Deputy Representative Miroslav Cacia and the parliamentary duty is in accordance with Article 9(2). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament began acting on 22 February 2008 by Deputy Representative Stanko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u741	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the Decision in accordance with the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Who's in? Please raise your hands! Thank you. Against? There isn't. Abstained? There isn't. I find that, unanimously with 118 votes, a decision has been taken as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. In accordance with Articles 7 and 8. The Rules of Procedure, MP Stanko Grcic, will be sworn in. The oath is given in a way that the President of the Parliament reads the text of the oath, then the representative after being called up and utters his oath. I will read the text of the oath: "I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order and that I will stand up for all the progress of the Republic of Croatia.". Representative Stanko Grcic?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u742	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u743	Thank you, counselor, congratulations and welcome to the Parliament... [[Applause]] In a moment, we'll move on to giving the oath of counsel. After the report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, in accordance with Article 7 of the Rules of Procedure, I call on MP Biljana Borzan to, yes, approach the making of an oath. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure have been established that the President shall read the text of the oath and thereafter, by name, call the MPs or the representative, when he is called up and pronounces "I swear!". "I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order and that I will stand up for all progress of the Republic of Croatia." Mrs. Biljana Borzana.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u745	I swear. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u746	Thank you very much. Congratulations, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u747	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u748	And I wish you many successes in working in the Croatian Parliament as representatives. And now, please, colleagues and colleagues, let's start with a mandate, reports from the Mandate-Immunity Commission, then elections and appointments, and then we'll start with those laws and decisions that we are. Here you go. President of the Committee, Mr. Damir Sesvečan.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u750	We have four reports from our colleagues and colleagues from the Mandate Commission. The first is the report on the request to authorise the initiation of a criminal proceedings against Mladen Bajic, the chief state lawyer of the Republic of Croatia. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 6th session held on 27 February 2008 the request of the co-author of the subsidiary prosecutor, i.e. the damage to the prosecutor, Emilio Bungur of Split, for the authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings against the main state attorney of the Republic of Croatia, Mladen Bajic, for the offence of abuse of position and authority referred to in Articles 337(1) and 2. Penalty law. Article 7(4) is replaced by the following: The law on the State's Attorney's Office has been found not to be impaled or subject to criminal proceedings without the approval of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with Article 104 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament The Mandate-Immunity Commission unanimously proposes to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the next decision. During the term of office, the authorisation to initiate criminal proceedings against the main state attorney of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Mladen Bajic, in the case under the indictment of Subsidary Prosecutor Emilio Bungur of Split for the criminal offence referred to in Article 337(1) and (2) shall be denied. Penalty law. .../President: There's everyone. Okay. You got the explanation in the materials, so you can see it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u751	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a proposal to the committee to vote? Who's in? Thank you very much. Does anyone mind? Restraint? There isn't. I find that the decision was taken unanimously with 121 votes. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u752	Report on the request to approve the initiation of the criminal proceedings against Biserka Vranjic of the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, at the 6th session held on 27 February this year, the Commission considered the proposal for damages as the prosecutor of the company... d.o.o. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Ozalj under the direction of the County Court in Karlovac for granting authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against a representative in the Croatian Parliament of Biserka Vranjic. For the purposes of the offence of abuse of position and authority referred to in Article 337(1). Penalty law. Article 75 of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament have established the immunity of the representative until the end of its parliamentary term. The decision approving the initiation of a criminal proceedings against the representative may only be taken by the Croatian Parliament. The Commission shall be responsible for the implementation of this Regulation and for the implementation of this Regulation. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously proposes a decision to the Croatian Parliament. During the term of office, authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against MP Biserka Vranjic shall be denied at the request of the defendant as prosecutor in the KIO 1/08-2 case for the criminal offence referred to in Article 337(1). Penalty law. That's how we have the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u753	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's for the decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission? Thank you. Does anyone mind? There isn't. Restraint? There isn't. I find that a decision has been taken unanimously with 123 votes. Let's move on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u754	The following is the report on the request for authorisation of the initiation of a criminal proceedings against Zdenka Chuhnil of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. At the 6th session held on 27 February 2008, the Commission also discussed the notice of the Daruvar Municipal Court that a private complaint was brought against MP Zdenka Cuhnil by Zvonka Cegledija from Daruvar for the offence of the offence referred to in Article 199(2). Penalty law. Article 75 of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament have established the immunity of the representative until the end of its parliamentary term. The decision approving the initiation of a criminal proceedings against the representative may only be taken by the Croatian Parliament. The mandate-immunity committee shall, after the hearing has been held and on the basis of Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament to make the next decision. During the term of office, authorisation for the initiation of a criminal proceedings against MP Zdenka Chuhnil shall be denied under the private suit of Prosecutor Zvonko Cegledi of Daruvar for the criminal offence referred to in Article 199(2). Penalty law. That's how it's explained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u755	You have an explanation in writing. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a motion for a vote. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? The abstentions? There isn't. I find that this decision has been adopted unanimously with 126 votes. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u756	Another report on the request to approve the initiation of the criminal proceedings against Rank Ostojić, a representative in the Croatian Parliament. The term of office of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 6th session held on 27 February 2008 the request of the prosecutor of the private prosecutor Franjo Turek of Varazdin, under the order of the Municipal Criminal Court in Zagreb for the authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings against MPs in the Croatian Parliament of Ranko Ostojić for the offence of the libel referred to in Article 200(2). Penalty law. Article 75 of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament have established the immunity of the representative until the term of office has ceased. The decision approving the initiation of the criminal proceedings may only be taken by the Croatian Parliament. The Commission shall be responsible for the implementation of this Regulation and for the implementation of this Regulation. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament to make the next decision. During the term of office, authorisation for the initiation of a criminal proceedings against Agent Rank Ostojić shall be denied under the private suit of Prosecutor Franjo Turek of Varazdin for the criminal offence referred to in Article 200(2). Penalty law. The explanation is in the materials.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u757	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Representative Ranko Ostojić came to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u758	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Since the goal is to go home as soon as possible, I'll give up but I'll vote against this, so I hope someone in it will back me up, because I'd like to defend myself before the court, not in a way that turns out to protect myself with immunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u759	Thank you. I'm putting the vote to the vote. Who's in? Thank you. Does anyone mind? Count it. Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 121 votes for and 7 against the motion for a decision adopted. Moving to 2nd item of the agenda. Proposal for a decision on the selection of the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament by Article 31(2). The Rules of Procedure found that if 5 vice-presidents were elected, 3 vice-presidents were elected on a parliamentary majority proposal and 2 vice-presidents on a parliamentary minority proposal. At the Constitutional Session in accordance with Article 5. Three vice-presidents were elected to the HDZ, HSS, HSS, HSU, national minorities and SDSS. The SDP representative club proposed to Mrs. Željko Antunović and Mr. Mr. Neven Mimica for vice presidents, and the club of HNS representatives proposed to Mrs Vesna Pusic. As three opposition candidates were proposed, the Croatian Parliament concluded that the vote should be postponed due to additional consultations. I'd like representatives of SDP and HNS clubs to brief us on their proposals. Any news? We got these suggestions. Here you go. Mr. Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u761	...the Croatian People's Party club, no news whatsoever. We're staying with our proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u762	Thank you. I'm opening a debate on behalf of the IDS Club,... Well, I believe Mr. Lesar said his own. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Now it's the IDS club and Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go. ... Then since it's already... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mr. Caine, come in. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mr. Caine, you've checked in and you've got a word on item two of the agenda, so let's stick to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u763	'Cause if nobody's gonna talk to me either,... Nothing, no matter what, gentlemen, is not a historic speech, it will not be, but I congratulate those who will be elected vice president of the Croatian Parliament in advance. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Clearly, the post of Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament is a matter of prestige, the post of Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament should in some ways be a matter of election results, but the same place should also be a matter of political wisdom. The SDP received 56 terms of office, the HNS is if I am not mistaken to receive 7 mandates. So, keeping in mind that so far there has been no unwritten rule to which the presidency belongs in these situations, bearing in mind how this was handled there in 2000, IDS will vote in favour of the SDP proposal. So we'll vote for Mr. Mimica, we'll vote for Mrs. Antunovic. The truth is, we've been reading HNS's arguments very carefully lately. We heard Mr. Cacic on such an open-air show, I participated, I didn't know until then or didn't care too much, when he said the SDP got four times as many votes and eight times as many mandates. On the other hand, five times as many. He said four. On the other hand, I also said about the unwritten rule. What is a key argument, however, is something else to me. I do not know Croatia in 2008, 2009 to win this European status in order to then start discussing the European countries' parliaments, or to decide on the future status of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union. I know that when it comes to it, the biggest job will surely be done by the government. The government can also be as much weight as it is right now on some ZERP issues, etc. But it's important to say the following. In the European Union, we have these three groups in their parliament in Strasbourg. So they're one of the socialists, the other they're broken democracies, but as we're going to call them, the third team or the third club is a club of liberals. The CNS is a party to the liberal worldview and its engagement in Strasbourg would certainly be welcome as well. If I'm not mistaken, Mrs. Pusic is the vice president of the association. Now the question is from which place. From one of those three places, i.e. Those two we have a vice president plus we have this seat of the National Committee, I think Mrs. Pusic should be represented there. Absolutely in our opinion, one of these places belongs to another in the strength of the opposition party in this House. On the other hand, we need to know that there is another place in this game, another place that may be far more powerful than the president of the National Committee, I would even dare say that it is stronger than both vice-presidential posts and the president of that National Committee together, which is the seat of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. This place under the law, based on positive regulations, belongs to the opposition. Now that the SDP grabs its own place and these three belong to the opposition, I don't think that would be fair. But something else is what I might be more interested in right now. It wouldn't be good, it really wouldn't be good if at this point HDZ chooses to call it that, opposition officials. And I know that at this point you HD gentlemen are simply exulting because the opposition as a crab's children simply cannot agree on these functions. I also agree that, say, in 98, it was far easier than today to say what's left, which is right. 98. We knew Tudjman, the policy of Shushk was... we know why not to count. For me it is right and for me are right and those who then participated in the executive power and re-behaved that power today or after 2903. The third-month rule by changing power there in 2000 certainly did, and by that in some way by my world-wide view, the government was left political commitment, regardless of what, from that position, I was against it, reduced labour rights through the Labour Act, I don't know, reduced maternity benefits. We did not remove that shame from Francic or Budak, but the very fact that there was a change in policy that ruled this country in the 1990s. By 2000, I claim that this power was, meaning left-wing power. ... And before the '90s, it was the same thing as quacking left-wing power, come on. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Another problem we'll all have together, and that'll be looked at in the next one. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] There will be no party like there were no after these parliamentary elections, which without partners will be able to form after some of the next elections on their own. Without a partner to form a future power, neither the HDZ nor the SDP will follow. That's what your Italians Furio finally figured out 20 years ago, no matter what you're yelling at me to cut short. Now. If we're fighting right now, if we're fighting right now, then I'm afraid that the policy of the current government would be ahead of those next elections, because if someone wins the elections twice in a row, if they have the ability to manage over 50% of the gross social product... [[/The speaker doesn't understand, off.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u764	Mr. Representative! Stick to the agenda. Here is the election of Vice President of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u765	So I repeat again. I really think that the SDP belongs to these two vice-presidential positions, by numbers, perhaps all three places, but by insisting on all these places plus the Committee on Internal Policy, I think it is not wise, because HDZ will judge us, because we will continue to share and because for Croatia because of lobbying in Europe, it is good that in Strasbourg, among other things, those who belong to this liberal association. I think that's the point. I know that this frame and this introduction to today's session the public will forget relatively quickly. Once again, existential questions will be those questions that we will gather people around. But they must also admit that with these polemics they simply got more than 100 days because the opposition could not agree. All in all, here's the end, because, let me just say it one more time, I repeat, there's no need to weaken the opposition. This weakens the opposition, it certainly isn't good, it helps the authorities. IDS as we have repeatedly announced, we will vote for two vice-presidential positions that propose or propose to the SDP, but it is also necessary that one of these remaining two places, whether it is a national committee or a chair of the Committee on Internal Policy, be it someone from or from the opposition in the future, but on the other hand.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u766	Thank you very much. Next, Mr. Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u767	He won't understand it that way. Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! The Croatian People's Party club has made the most of its efforts to come to you in agreement before voting on the two vice-presidents of this House. Unfortunately, that didn't work. But I don't see too much of a problem in that, because our Rules of Procedure also foresees the possibility of a greater number of candidates than is elected, and so does the procedure for the Parliament to decide in such cases. Therefore, it is not about a situation that would deviate anything from business norms and the Rules of Procedure itself, which has not been in force for several years. I remind you that our Rules of Procedure stipulates that the Parliament may have two or five vice presidents. If it is decided to elect two vice presidents and one belongs to the ruling majority, the other opposition. If an agreement is reached to choose five, three are from the ruling, two from the opposition. And their candidacy is given by the representatives' clubs. Although our Rules of Procedure are quite clear to me in this part of the constitution, proposing and choosing, in the constitution of the Parliament, always until now, and this time before the constitutional meetings, the ruling and opposition representatives of clubs met to reach agreements on some unwritten rules that have always been respected in this House. One of those unwritten rules that the deal was reached in less than a minute, that this time the Parliament is electing five vice presidents. The second unwritten agreement and the unwritten rule that was once again agreed was that of the 25 working bodies presidents, it belonged to 14, opposition 11 or 11 of the ruling vice presidents, and opposition 14. And we made that deal in less than a minute. We also agreed and accepted the unwritten rule so far that in all working bodies, all 25 working bodies, the ruling coalition has a majority. We also agreed in less than one minute which committees will have a majority as an unwritten rule of the Constitution, legislation, judiciary, finance, budget, mandate, election and appointment, so the most important working bodies. And we did it as collegiately, honestly as we did in 2003 in a very short time. It was then also on the agenda of the talks and an attempt to agree on the approval and candidacy of opposition candidates for the vice-presidential post. It is true that the SDP has 8 times more mandates than the Croatian People's Party, but it is true that there are no 8 times more votes in these parliamentary elections and it is true that the vote ratio is 4:1. Do our voters who voted for the Croatian People's Party in this election have the right to be represented in Parliament's presidency? We think so. Does the Croatian People's Party have as the third parliamentary party by the number of seats on membership in the Parliament's Presidency? We believe that and that's why we submitted the application. And as I mentioned four unwritten rules were respected and negotiated, and we thought that the fifth one would come easily to an agreement. But we failed, and we made an alternative proposal. We have given us a second opportunity to choose from three of us the most significant functions in the Parliament to which the opposition has the right and these are the two vice-presidential seats and the leadership of the National Committee of the SDP Club to choose the two that he wants to run for and that the third one that remains will be given us the candidacy. Unfortunately, that alternative proposal did not go through either. I remind you, colleagues and colleagues, that the Vice-Presidents of the Assembly are members of the Bureau of Parliament and that the Bureau of Parliament has the powers laid down by the Rules of Procedure to determine the work and essential powers of work in this House. And that is one of the reasons why we believe that the Croatian People's Party as the third parliamentary party has the right to run for office and to elect one vice-presidential post, which also gives it a seat in the presidency. And finally, all candidates for any duties in this House and also candidates for vice-presidential duties and for all others to be elected must get votes and ruling coalitions because the opposition means that it is not by the number of votes stronger than the ruling ones. It is, therefore, no arbitration but parliamentary decision. Our candidacy for Ms. Pusic as vice-president of the Parliament remains and the parliament should make a majority decision. And as I said at the constitutive session we were ready to vote then, we accepted the then proposal of the Croatian Democratic Community Club for a postponement, we are ready and now without delay to wait for the parliamentary majority's decision as it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u768	Thank you. On behalf of the SDSSB club Mr. Representative Branimir Glavas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u769	Mr. President, you read it wrong. We're not from the SDSB, we're from the HDSSB, but well, it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u770	Excuse me, counsel for the lapus.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u771	I respect that. Dear colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Union club Slavonia and Baranja, I can say this, that we will not support both SDP and HNS, but between SDP and HNS candidates, we decided the following. Between Ms Antunovic and the offered Mrs Pusic, we will support Mrs Antunovic, between Mr Mimica and Mrs Pusic, we will support Mr Mimica. The bill is clear. Eight times as many seats says enough. Thus, 56 MPs are a respectable number, the opposition party and the Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja believe that the SDP belongs to both seats of the vice-president of the Parliament from that quota belonging to the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u772	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament which reads: "A secret vote shall be held as a rule in the election or appointment if the number of candidates proposed is greater than the number elected or appointed. On a proposal of at least a dozen MPs, the Parliament may decide to vote publicly in the cases referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article by voting first on the proposal submitted by the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs.". There's no such suggestion. After that, on other proposals according to the alphabetical order of the candidate's last name. Here on the table I received a proposal from sixteen MPs to vote on the election of the vice president of the Croatian Parliament by a public vote. I therefore put this proposal to the public vote in accordance with Article 231. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? There isn't. This proposal was unanimously accepted by 144 votes. We're moving on to a choice. The SDP representative club proposed to Mrs. Zeljko Antunovic as a candidate for the Croatian Parliament's vice president. Who's up for this proposal? Thank you. Does anyone mind? Restraint? Thank you. 137 for seven abstentions. Before the announcement, we'll have to vote further. I am voting on the proposal of the SDP Representatives Club to elect Mr Neven Mimica as vice-president of the Croatian Parliament. Who's up for this proposal? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Restraint? 136 votes for and 8 abstentions. I am voting on the proposal of the Club of Representatives of the HNS, to elect representative Vesna Pusic as vice president of the Croatian Parliament. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? We have eight MPs for, two MPs against and 134 abstentions. I declare that MP Željka Antunović has been elected to the vice president of the Croatian Parliament with 137 votes for and 7 abstentions. Congratulations to my colleague Željko Antunović on the election of Croatian Vice President... I declare that Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament is elected Mr. Neven Mimic with 136 votes in favour and 8 abstentions. [[Applause]] Congratulations to Mr. Vice President Mimica... With this, I also announce that for the proposal, to elect Vice President Vesna Pusic was 8 for, 2 against and 134 abstentions. [[Applause]] So, therefore, Mrs Antunovic and Mr Mimica were elected. And with that, we have concluded this agenda point. Thank you very much. And congratulations again to Mrs. Antunovic and Mr. Mimica for the election of vice president of the Croatian Parliament. And I hope for good and fruitful cooperation. Our colleagues, colleagues and colleagues continue the session. Moving to the 3rd point of the agenda: 3. Elections, appointments and resolutions I request the chairman of the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs to submit a report to the Committee. Mrs. Nevenka Majdenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u774	Thank you. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament held at the 4th session held on 19 February 2008 unanimously established the proposal for a decision on the resolution and election of the chairman of the Croatian Parliament's Committee on Legislatives. First, the chairman of the Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee Dražan Bošnjaković is dismissed. And secondly, Emil Tomljanović is elected president of the Croatian Parliament's Legislatives Committee for Croatian Parliament legislation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u775	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am making a motion to vote. Who's up for this proposal? Thank you very much. Does anyone mind? Restraint? There isn't. I find that this proposal has been unanimously accepted by 126 votes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u776	Thank you. At the 4th session held on 19 February 2008, the Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously established the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge and selection of members of the Croatian Parliament's Legislatives Committee. First, a member of the Legislative Committee of the Croatian Parliament, Emil Tomljanović, is dismissed. And secondly, Rade Bošnjak is elected member of the Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u777	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's up for this proposal? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? There isn't. I find that, unanimously with 128 votes, this proposal has been accepted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u778	The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament at the 4th session held on 19 February 2008 unanimously established the proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of members of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament. First, a member of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament, Draž Bošnjaković, is hereby dismissed. Secondly, Tomislav Culjak is elected as a member of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u779	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am making a motion to vote. Who's in? Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? There isn't. I find that, unanimously with 130 votes, the Committee's proposal is accepted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u780	The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament held at the 4th session held on 19 February 2008 unanimously established the proposal for a decision on the election of presidents, vice-presidents and members of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of the Croatian Parliament elects: For President Ranko Ostojić, Vice-President Tomislav Culjak. For members: Josip Friščić, Krešimir Čosić, Niko Rebić, Ivan Shantek, Dragan Vukić, Milorad Pupovac, Igor Dragovan, Ante Kotromanović, Dino Kozlevac, Dragutin Lesar and Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u781	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on this proposal from the Committee. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? There isn't. Thank you. I find that, unanimously with 133 votes, the Committee's proposal is accepted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u782	The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament held at the 4th session held on 19 February 2008 unanimously established the proposal for a decision on the election of the president, vice-president and members of the Committee on Finance, the state budget of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament elects: For President Goran Maric, Deputy President Dragica Zgrebec. For members: Krešo Filipović, Davor Huška, Nevenka Majdenić, Željko Turk, Josip Frisčić, Vojislav Stanimirović, Gordan Maras, Nada Čavlović Smiljanec, Nadica Jelas, Zlatko Koračević and Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u783	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate and I'm making a motion to vote. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? There isn't. I find that, unanimously with 133 votes, the Committee's proposal is accepted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u784	The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament held at the 4th session held on 19 February 2008 unanimously established the proposal for a decision on the election of presidents, vice-presidents and members of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament. For President Dragan Kovacevic, Vice-President Zlatko Horvat, members of Krešo Filipović, Franjo Lucić, Goran Marić, Milivo Švorc, Davor Huška, Boris Klemenić, Ljubo Jurčić, Branko Grčić, Gordan Maras, Nadica Jelaš and Zvonimir Mršić, are elected to the Committee for the Economy, Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u785	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am making a motion to vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. I find that, unanimously with 133 votes, this proposal has been adopted by the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u786	The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament held at the 4th session held on 19 February 2008 unanimously set out the proposal for a decision on the election of presidents, vice presidents and members of the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee on Tourism of the Croatian Parliament elects: For President Marin Brkarić, Vice President Gary Cappelli. For members: Stipe Gabrić, Silvano Hrelja, Dubravka Šuica, Nevenka Marinović, Nedeljko Srikić, Stjepan Fiolić, Luka Denon, Dragutin Bodakoš, Mario Habek, Šime Lučin and Bruno Kurelić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u787	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am making a motion to vote. Who's in? Thank you very much. Does anyone mind? Restraint? There isn't. Thank you. I find that, unanimously with 132 votes, the Committee's proposal is accepted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u788	The Committee on Appoints and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament was unanimously established on 20 February 2008 by the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of the National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee for Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament is elected: for President Furio Radin, for Vice-President Šima Lučin, for members: Ivanka Roksandić, Niko Rebić, Ljubica Lukačić, Antun Gorušec, Ratko Gajica, Milorad Pupovac, Zdenka Čuhnil, Nazif Memedi, Denes Soja, Šemso Tanković, Vesna Škulić, Goran Heffer and Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u789	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am making a motion to vote. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. Restraint? There isn't. I find that, unanimously with 130 votes, the committee's proposal is accepted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u790	The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament held on 20 February 2008 unanimously set out the proposals for a decision on the election of the president, vice president and members of the Committee on Justice of the Croatian Parliament. The Board of Justice of the Croatian Parliament elects: for President Ivo Grbić, for Vice-President Boris Šprem, for members: Vladimir Ivković, Ljubica Lukačić, Emil Tomljanović, Damir Sesvečan, Rade Bošnjak, Davor Huška, Ivo Josipovic, Josip Leko, Davor Bernardić, Željka Antunović and Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u791	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the committee's proposal. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? The abstentions? There isn't. I find that 133 votes unanimously accept the committee's proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u792	On 20 February 2008, the Committee for Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out a proposal for a decision on the election of presidents, vice presidents and members of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health of the Croatian Parliament. In the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health of the Croatian Parliament, they are elected President Andrija Hebrang, Vice-President Ranko Ostojić, members: Ivan Bagarić, Karmela Caparin, Stjepan Milinković, Nedjeljko Strikić, Nedjeljka Klarić, Miroslav Cacia, Davorko Vidović, Miranda Mrsić, Željko Jovanovic, Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić and Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u793	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am making a motion to vote. Who's in? Thank you. Does anyone mind? Restraint? There isn't. I find that, unanimously with 135 votes, the committee's proposal is accepted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u794	The Committee for Elections, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament held on 19 February 2008 unanimously set out a proposal for a decision on the election of the President, Vice-President and members of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament. In the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament, they are elected President Milanka Opačić, Vice-President Željana Kalaš, for members: Suzanne Bilić Vardić, Šimo Đurđević, Perica Bukić, Goran Marić, Nedeljka Klarić, Tomislav Vrdoljak, Branko Crljenko, Davor Bernardić, Sonja Šimunović, Marija Lugarić and Davorko Vidović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u795	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am making a motion to vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. There isn't. Restraint? There isn't. I find that 133 votes unanimously accept the committee's proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u796	On 20 February, the Committee for Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out a proposal for a decision on the selection of presidents, vice presidents and members of the Committee on Immigration of the Croatian Parliament. For President Ivan Bagarić, Vice-President Boro Grubišić, members: Ivo Andrić, Petar Mlinarić, Rade Božnjak, Vedran Rožić, Bozica Šolić, Dragan Vukić, Ivica Pančić, Tanja Vrbat, Brankica Crljenko, Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić and Daniel Mondekar, are elected to the Committee for Immigration of the Croatian Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u797	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's up for this proposal? Thank you. Against? There isn't. Restraint? I find that, unanimously with 136 votes, the committee's proposal is accepted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u798	The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament on 20 February 2008 set out a unanimous proposal for a decision on the election of the president, vice-president and members of the Croatian War Veterans Committee. The Committee for War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament is elected: for President Ante Kotromanović, for Vice President Josip Djakić, for members: Bozica Šolić, Mate Bilnjić, Tomislav Ivić, Krešimir Ćosić, Petar Mlinarić, Ivo Andrić, Ivica Pančić, Davorko Vidović, Tonino Picula, Ranko Ostojić and Ivan Hanžek.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u799	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am making a motion to vote. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? There isn't. I find that, unanimously with 135 votes, the committee's proposal is accepted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u800	The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament on 20 February 2008 unanimously set out the proposal for a decision on the election of presidents, vice-presidents and members of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection of the Croatian Parliament. In the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection of the Croatian Parliament, they are elected president Jerko Rosin, Vice President Mirela Holy, members: Marijana Petir, Krešimir Gulić, Angelko Mihalić, Vedran Rožić, Petar Selem, Boris Matković, Slavko Linić, Vlatko Podnar, Goran Heffer, Željko Vincelj and Boris Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u801	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's up for this proposal? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? There isn't. I find that, unanimously with 135 votes, the committee's proposal is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u802	The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament held at the 4th session on 19 February 2008 unanimously established a proposal for a decision on the selection of presidents, vice-presidents and members of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament is elected: for President Petar Selem, for Vice-President Miljenko Doric, for members: Nevio Šetić, Ivanka Roksandić, Frano Matušić, Miroslav Škoro, Zdenka Čuhni, Ivan Čehok, Iron Srecko Flego, Marija Lugarić, Rajko Ostojić, Antun Vujic and Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u803	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's up for this proposal? Thank you. Do you mind? Thank you. Restraint? I find that 134 votes, unanimously accepted the Committee's proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u804	At the 4th session held on 19 February 2008, the Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously established a proposal for a decision on the selection of presidents, vice-presidents and members of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee on Agriculture and Forestry of the Croatian Parliament elects: for President Zlatko Koračević, for Vice-President Kreso Filipović, for members Dragan Vukić, Stjepan Fiolić, Tomislav Culjak, Branko Kutija, Nevenka Marinović, Zdravko Kelić, Dragica Zgrebec, Goran Heffer, Zoran Vinković, Dragutin Bodakos and Vlatko Podnar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u805	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's up for this proposal? Thank you. Do you mind? Thank you. Restraint? There isn't. I note that 135 votes unanimously accepted the Committee's proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u806	The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament held at the 4th session held on 19 February 2008 unanimously established a proposal for a decision on the selection of presidents, vice-presidents and members of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Connections of the Croatian Parliament. In the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications of the Croatian Parliament, they are elected President Slavko Linić, Vice President Stipe Gabrić, for members: Niko Rebić, Živko Nenadić, Ivan Vukić, Gary Cappelli, Bojan Hlača, Milivo Škvorc, Luka Denon, Arsen Bauk, Dino Kozlevac, Boris Šprem and Shime Lučin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u807	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? There isn't. I find that, unanimously with 136 votes, the Committee's proposal is accepted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u808	The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament held at the 4th session held on 19 February 2008 unanimously established a proposal for a decision on the selection of presidents, vice-presidents and members of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament. In the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament, they are elected President Igor Dragovan, Vice President Ratko Gajica, members: Ivan Shantek, Franjo Lucić, Mato Bilnjić, Ante Kulušić, Boris Matković, Nazif Memedi, Željko Jovanovic, Biljana Borzana, Sonja Šimunović, Mario Habek and Bruno Kurelić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u809	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am making a motion to vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? There isn't. I find that, unanimously with 136 votes, the Committee's proposal is accepted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u810	The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament was unanimously established by the draft decision on the selection of the Vice-President and members of the Committee on European Integration of the Croatian Parliament on 20 February 2008. In the Committee on European Integrations of the Croatian Parliament, they are elected Vice-President Dubravka Šuica, for members: Tomislav Ivić, Marija Pejcinović Burić, Frane Matešić, Nevio Šetić, Carmela Caparin, Boris Kunst, Neven Mimica, Branko Grčić, Daniel Mondekar, Tanja Vrbat, Gvosden Srecko Flego and Vesna Pusić. I should point out that among the elected MPs from the opposition parties, the committee will subsequently elect the president of that working body when the opposition declares that proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u811	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's up for this proposal? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that, unanimously with 138 votes, the Committee's proposal is accepted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u812	The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament on 20 February 2008 unanimously set out the proposal for a decision on the election of presidents, vice-presidents and members of the Committee on Information, Information and Media of the Croatian Parliament. In the Committee on Information, Information and Media of the Croatian Parliament, they are elected President Nenad Stazić, Vice-President Ljubica Lukačić, for members: Boris Kunst, Krunoslav Markovnović, Miroslav Škoro, Tomislav Ivić, Suzanne Bilić Vardić, Josip Đakić, Antun Vujic, Biljana Borzan, Željka Antunović, Miranda Mrsić and Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u813	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's up for this proposal? Thank you. Do you mind? Abstained? There isn't. I find that, unanimously with 137 votes, the Committee's proposal is accepted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u814	The Committee for Elections, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament held on 19 February 2008 unanimously set out a proposal for a decision on the election of the President, Vice-President and members of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament is elected president of Gordana Sobol, Vice-President Carmela Caparin, for members: Šimo Đurđević, Željana Kalaš, Bozica Šolić, Nevio Šetić, Vedran Rožić, Nevenka Majdenić, Mirela Holy, Romana Jerković, Mirana Ferić-Vac, Biserka Vranić and Vesna Škulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u815	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's up for this proposal? Thank you. Do you mind? The abstentions? There isn't. I find that 136 votes unanimously accept the Committee's proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u816	The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament on 20 February 2008 unanimously set out the proposal for a decision to elect a president, vice-president and members of the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament. In the Committee for Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government of the Croatian Assembly, they are elected president of the Croatian Parliament, Mršić, Vice President Tomislav Ivić, members: Antun Korušec, Denes Soja, Anton Mance, Franjo Lucić, Nevenka Marinović, Boris Klemenić, Ivan Hanžek, Zoran Vinković, Biserka Vranić, Željko Vince and Boris Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u817	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's up for this proposal? Thank you. Is anyone against it? There isn't. Restraint? There isn't. I find that, unanimously with 138 votes, the Committee's proposal has been accepted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u818	The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament was unanimously established by the proposal for a decision to dismiss the head of the Office of the President of the Croatian Parliament on 20 February 2008. The office of the head of the Croatian Parliament's Office of President Boris Abramovic is hereby dismissed on a personal request.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u819	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's up for this proposal? Thank you. Against? Restraint? One abstention. For 137, abstention one, most votes were accepted by this Committee proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u820	The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament was unanimously established by the proposal for a decision to appoint the head of the Office of the President of the Croatian Parliament. The head of the Office of the President of the Croatian Parliament is called Miso Munivrana.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u821	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a motion to vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? One. I find that most of the votes are 137 for and one abstention accepted by the Committee's proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u822	The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament held at the 5th session held on 20 February 2008 with the majority of votes of 8 to determine the proposal for a decision on the election of the president, vice president and members of the National Committee. The National Committee of Representatives is elected, for President Vesna Pusić, for Vice-President Vladimir Seks, for members Marija Pejcinović Burić, Frano Matušić, Nevenka Majdenić, Josip Frisčić, Ivan Čehok, Ljubo Jurčić, Damir Kajin and Neven Mimica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u823	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Thank you, ma'am. Mr. Representative Zoran Milanovic. Here you go, on behalf of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u824	Dear President, MPs, MPs, dear colleagues. The script is clear, the director is even clearer, the consequences I hope are not far-reaching, but also clear. So what's the National Committee? The National Committee is a supra-parliamentary body. It is not a paraparliamentary body, it is the supra-parliamentary body of the Croatian Parliament to be defined.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u825	Please don't let the speaker get in the way. This applies to Mr Milanovic, so for each representative, that the speaker is not disturbed.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u826	So, what's on the National Committee? It is a supra-parliamentary body that sets out an alliance for Europe. And the Alliance for Europe is probably a state of mind and the mood of all of us who do not question. It is a political consensus of parliamentary political parties on the priority of European integration. It's a big coalition, but a big coalition plus, with one big plus. So all that in Croatian society is in politics for Europe and lives for Europe. Since the beginning, the leaders of the two largest parties have been the leaders of the idea of political gathering in that term. Ivo Sanader and SDP late President Ivica Racan. This also resulted in an agreement that Ivica Racan, as president of the largest opposition party in the Croatian Parliament, is headed by the National Committee. National Committee membership is a rule rarely bypassed by political party presidents, parliamentary parties, even when they are not MPs. For example. Mr. Friscic, when he was mayor and president of the HSS, as am I, after I was elected president of the SDP in the final assembly of the parliament. So it doesn't matter which president the parties will be at the head of that National Committee. It is therefore logical for the head of the National Committee to be president of the SDP or of the president, whoever it is at any time because it guarantees the Alliance's strength for Europe. I repeat once again that this is not about the duties of parliament, it is about a symbolic, co-ordination function that maintains political responsibility for Croatia's preparations for membership in the European Union. Without a president or president of the strongest opposition parliamentary party, the National Committee shall become an insufficiently representative political body for the Alliance for Europe. Of course, we do not give up on the alliances for Europe, as I said, that is the state of consciousness, and that is the consciousness we all share. The HDZ will, given that the proposal for a committee is clear and the scenario is clear and it is not about any personal preference or game, the HDZ will be very difficult, as this is about the HDZ to explain this decision to the European partners, the question is how it will understand it, I am afraid as an attempt to blame others for the objective difficulties we currently have in negotiations with the European Union, in the reforms and for the stalemate we have. I hope the word stalemate won't provoke the correction of the wrong allegations, it's said with a lot of attention and preparation. We've got a stalemate. We have a stalemate because of problems and the slowness of reforms. With seriousness, the same seriousness that is approaching this whole problem, the SDP will consider the new situation, its impact on our path towards the European Union, and will certainly make a decision that will be and can only be in the direction of keeping our course, our direction, not our course towards the European Union, strengthening our European commitment and all that we have spent all these years with a lot of energy, knowledge and desire, and nothing will change there. Once again, this decision that should not be seen as a personal decision, which should not be seen as an official decision because it is not, this is no parliamentary duty, with full respect for the duties and those elected this afternoon, my colleagues Željka Antunović and Neven Mimica, who, on this occasion, congratulate me on this, are far more far-reaching decisions. You, of course, are entitled to it by the HDZ gentlemen. You have a majority in this House, you have the power to make a decision that you think is just, that is in Croatia's interest, and I want you to believe that you know what you're doing. We at the SDP club about this decision and voting for this decision will be abstentioned, because we simply cannot be against for principle reasons against the National Committee on the European Union. In this way, however, this covenant loses its substance, symbolically meaning, and loses its political meaning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u827	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDSS Club Mr. Representative...... And the correction of an incorrect quote, yes, to forgive. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mario Zubović, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u828	Thank you very much, Mr. President. An esteemed colleague said it was a superparliamentary body. I have to explain that there are no supra-parliamentary bodies. There are bodies that have outside members. So this body has outside members, but it's not a supra-parliamentary body. And I hope that Mr. Milanovic would not be over-parliamentary if he were elected.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u829	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDSS Club, Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u830	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! I didn't mean to speak, but I still decided to go out for this pay phone to say a few words in favour of not having made a mistake choosing Doctor Vesna Pusic, a representative in this House for the chairman of the National Committee for the Monitoring of Negotiations with the European Union. Let me give you a few reasons why? Not because I belong to several people who know Vesna from at least two, three lives, one is academic, the other is political, but because I know Mrs Pusic as one of the protagonists of democracy in Croatia and when she was gone. Because I know Mrs. Pusic as one of the protagonists of democracy and then when she argued from this hall and when she was among the lonely for the attitudes she represented. At the same time, we know of course as among the greatest enthusiasts of European integration processes in Croatia and in the area of the former Yugoslavia. I'm not saying that to say that some others are smaller. But the way Mrs. Pusic approaches it, and it stands for me, and my party is motivated to support her in this place. Not to question what is called the Alliance for Europe, which was brought into question at least two years ago. And who, at least two years ago, doesn't function as the Alliance for Europe. Regardless of what we have, the National Committee is drawn up by matrix as it was drawn up three or four years ago, when it really worked as a Alliance for Europe, with all differences, with all the disputes and with all the usual and normal forms of competition and criticism that we must have among ourselves. So if you ask me, it's not a critical point that we've chosen today as president of the National Committee as the critical point of a possible Alliance for Europe. The critical point is that he's been gone for two years. About why he's gone, who's all responsible for not having him, who's lost all enthusiasm in this regard and who's all contributed to it, of course I'm willing to discuss it both here and on that same board. But this choice itself is certainly not the one that should question what we no longer have and what we should really just create. If we want to rebuild it under new circumstances, if we want to restore it in a new composition, then I'm afraid with this type of approach stuff, especially with this type of emotion, and especially with this kind of pettyness, we're not going to do it. I think that could only happen if we open a wider space, if we really know the clear goals and if we really choose to achieve something in some time period towards that Europe. And that nobody gives up what they think is important, which is to help make this government work better than it does, to do more for the benefit of the citizens of this country than it does. And, of course, at the same time, we make European values that we must do as much as possible in the lives of our society as possible. I am convinced that Mrs Pusic from this position for which we have all chosen to find her strength to rise from the division that party competence carries with her when it comes to such business. This is what makes this committee truly specific and different from others. So many colleagues, Zubovic, he really has this kind of supra-parliamentarity, nothing else. But as I believe the president of the SDP would do with that same grill or that commitment, I am so confident that Mrs Pusic will do the same for which colleagues and colleagues do not really believe that any of you think that she is worthy of having that position.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u831	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u832	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Let's first resolve the dilemma that the National Committee is. We have defined it as a working body of the Croatian Parliament by a decision on the establishment of the National Committee, and no matter how anyone reads or interprets that decision, it is quite clear. When I explained earlier my candidacy for the office of Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, I said that we were giving a second opportunity and giving her candidacy as president of the National Committee. As far as she's concerned, I personally believe that as far as her qualifications are concerned, the competence to deal with this job of experience and a clear commitment to European integration will be no one in this Chamber where... I am just adding that she is the only Croatian politician to be elected vice president in the European party association. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Namely, in the European Association of Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Parties, vice-presidents are elected rather than others where the presidents of national parties are elected vice-presidents. We believe that as the third parliamentary party or second opposition, after we have not given the majority in parliament the post of Vice-President of the Parliament to this place and because of the importance of the essence of the National Committee itself, but because of this rank, it deserves your trust. If I'm not mistaken by the decision, the board is scheduled to have a president, a vice president and 13 other members. The proposal for a decision gives eight members if I am not mistaken, so five more names should be obtained from the committee's ranks. And I don't see any problem or cause of the claim that anyone has been denied membership on that committee. I believe the board would have been happier if he had a full composition of the National Committee today. And quite in the end, the National Committee is founded on a decision if I am not mistaken for the unanimous Croatian Assembly without great tension, but when we established it and elected the composition and president at the time, we did not say or write that the function or function of the president of the National Committee was hereditary but elective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u833	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. Oh, yeah, we still have one club. Mr. Representative Damir Cain on behalf of the IDS club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u834	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'd like you to meet Mr. MPs. He says to our people, "Whoever digs another pit, I end up falling into it."and that is in some way true for both the position and the opposition. The opposition indeed and I see myself here unfortunately for 17 years must put his head together because this has become a dangerous game. They're playing with us like we're little kids, like we're a little kindergarten. And so, I say really smart head together. But the vote is bad. This game, which is why I went out, in which IDS did not participate, will not end well for anyone. It won't end well for the opposition or for the position and it won't end well for the state either. For the second time IDS did not participate in this, we really did not know that such a set-up would eventually take place. I also see that in this early one still prepolitical or I don't know what time I'd call it, no one forgives anyone. I see the government has no price. However, once again I will say hold or it shows that the state is still another pre-political area where someone who does not have a simple price. Vice-presidential seats in this House are a matter of prestige, the seat of the president of the National Committee is also a matter of prestige. We need to talk, we must not outvote, we must not fight a battle within the opposition. No, that's what I keep telling my people. In the IDS, an opponent is not SDP or HNS, it's HDZ. In this game we've all made a mistake, we just have to talk. I'm afraid this way they can be in power for another four years. And that's when prices go wild, when inflation is growing, when external debt is booming, when exports are stagnating, when energy gathers, we're giving them not another hundred days of savings, but we've given them a lot, a lot more than that for what could have been the smallest two vice-presidential seats. And I think we sent a bad message to the public. I don't think it should have done that, even though to be honest, HDZ, I think Mr. Shecks was doing the best he could, so mayarily, to play this thing out, I didn't believe it. I was talking earlier about this pay phone that it's not good for HDZ to pick officials. That's what happened to us in the end. We turned naive, HDZ may have triumphed, but unfortunately, even this time democracy in Croatia has not won.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u835	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Anto Djapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u836	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, she invited me to discuss my colleague Milanovic's debate, who said several times in his speech, the term Alliance for Europe. Yes, the Alliance for Europe implies not only a common and united position of all parliamentary parties in the Croatian Parliament for its commitment to the European Union but the alliance should set some standards and communication between parliamentary parties in the Croatian Parliament. Unfortunately, the facts show that, in this case, the election of officials, not only of officials, but also of members of the boards of the Croatian Parliament, did the opposition party have no agreement. So regardless of political relations and about who has political power in parliament, I believe that there is a lack of communication, the talks have come to this situation where officials are elected in the way they are chosen. Because the fact is that in this House which has 153 MPs, the concept of power is relative. As anywhere in the world's parliaments, two MPs and three can have a deputy prime minister. That is why the main opposition party must also take care when proposing its officials and should be more coordinated on at least these opposition situations. The fact is, in selecting members of the parliamentary committees, I am not in any committee as a representative of a political party. Which is fine, I mean, I don't complain or complain about it. But I would also like to say that there was coordination between the opposition parties, perhaps in that conversation, it would have been different for the vice president of the Parliament and for the president of this National Union for Europe Committee as we call it. So in this case the opposition parties who have some left positions, but there are those of us who have right positions are not their own I would say, by their guilt they have come into a position to choose this in this way. And it is quite logical that the parliamentary majority will use it the way it is. And I finally think there's nothing wrong with that. It is not bad because it is not good, no matter how strong someone in the Croatian Parliament is, that only according to the number of MPs determines their position. I remind you that this is not the first case, that in the previous session of the Parliament, we have had several situations in which there were no opposition coordinations and agreements on the positions of officials in the Croatian Parliament, and then it was overvoted in a different way. This is all in my opinion absolutely legitimate. This, in my opinion, is really not a crucial and fundamental personal question, even though it is not irrelevant. It is certainly very important that the personal selection of the head or head of the National Committee is also extremely important. In any case, it would be a good idea if, by now, quite already and later for the opposition that the proposal to the parliamentary majority to elect officials needs more talk. And also with fewer positions, I will not say forces but from the position of the exclusive number of MPs I have said in this Parliament and with two MPs or 3 you can get the Deputy Prime Minister so it is perfectly logical and normal that within the opposition circles if there is no coordination and arrangements are possible and such choices are made by officials in the Croatian Parliament. The Croatian Party of Rights, I will support this proposal for a decision on the election of the leadership of the National Committee. At least we're not in it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u837	Thank you very much. It's Madam Representative Vesna Pusic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u838	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. First, I would like to thank the Committee on Selection and Appointment for running for President of the National Committee even though, of course, I have not yet been elected and we will see if I am elected. I'd like to calm my colleague Caine, who is afraid for this reason that we are in a pre-political period. Just the other way around. This isn't what we're talking about in the pre-political period. It is most normal in democracy, in normally functioning political systems, that Parliament has the option of choosing between several candidates. That is what the parties decide and their commitment to their judgment is based on and does not mean a negative opinion on those candidates for which they have not been identified. As I hope it didn't mean in case we didn't get support, I personally didn't get support for the vice-presidential seat in the Parliament. If that were the result of a negative attitude towards the HNS, either to me personally. The ruling coalition supported SDP's candidates for parliament's vice-presidents. They were elected vice presidents of the Parliament. I, I congratulate them and accept them as I do the CNS, accept this Parliament's decision and we will not consider our active participation in Parliament's work for this. We just thought this place belonged to us. The majority in Parliament felt that this is not the case and we accept the majority decision in Parliament. According to the votes in the Committee on Elections and Appointments, there seems to be a great chance of accepting this proposal from the CNS as chairman of the National Committee and accepting my candidacy. It seems that colleagues from the ruling coalition will support it according to these votes in the Committee. I would be particularly pleased and would be very honored if I were supported by my colleagues from the SDP. But if it doesn't come to that, I won't take it personally. I won't think it's a sign of some particular negative attitude towards me. I'm going to think it's just a momentary positioning, and we're working together in the future on this project. We are working on something that took us many years to build and that is a consensus that Croatia is not only geographically but also politically in Europe. It took us 13 years to build this consensus and it is clear that there is no Croatian road to Europe. That there is no success in this country's journey without active participation, without full support and participation in the entire SDP project. The SDP is too important and big a party to be able to do this job without the SDP and I hope and I must say, in fact, I can't even doubt that the SDP as well as all the other parties in the project will participate. If I am elected President of the National Committee in this Parliament, I will consider it my duty as well as all of us that what we started long before it appeared and built a consensus on the Croatian political scene about Europe being Croatia's future. That we're going to be on that road and we're going to be working together on this project and we're going to be working on that project for the next four years together and we're going to make it. Because if we don't all work together, the only thing guaranteed is failure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u839	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u840	Mr. President, I just want to say a few things, and I also agree with Mr. Lesar that this is not an hereditary function, but it is indeed electoral and that no one in the SDP thinks certain seats of the chairman of the board, as someone thought it would be to get some hereditary way or by some rights that ruled in the Parliament. However, I would like to point out here that this is indeed a subparliamentary committee, which has its own premark as the National Committee, which is actually a committee of the Croatian Parliament to monitor the negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. For me, too, other committees are important, such as the Committee on Agriculture, the Economy, Forestry, etc., and now I'm asking myself, as an agent, why do these committees not have that national committee designation? It is precisely because a truly great alliance has been made on this Committee for Europe, that is, for the European Union. And after all that is happening here in the Assembly, and normally that the work of that committee is unimaginable without the strongest opposition party, just looking at what is happening here, I think that especially in the ruling HDZ party is not in the interest and is not a question of the very interest of Croatia and of the speed of accession to the European Union, nor of the interest of the citizens of Croatia, but it is this political and mathematical game that is related to the election of the president or president of the National Committee. No one here questions, so to speak, the character and the work and the life of Mrs Vesna Pusic, but considers it as he tried to maybe a little impote Mr. Pupovac, but here is first of all this great alliance, the alliance for Europe. I think it's hard for him to go through this kind of reasoning and this sort of thing. Sir, you take your word for it, then interrupt yourself. I think since you're a doctor, you can have so much culture to listen to someone. The SDP, therefore, will certainly not disturb Croatia by its activities in the Assembly, but will help to actively participate and help Croatia to enter Europe as soon as possible, to unfreeze pre-accession and European funds, etc., etc. I thank you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u841	Thank you very much. I am concluding the debate and putting forward a proposal for a Committee on Elections of Presidents, Vice-Presidents and members of the National Committee for the vote. Who's for this proposal raises his hand. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 84 votes in favour and 53 abstentions, a proposal on the election of the president, vice president and members of the National Committee has been accepted. Thank you very much. And now, colleagues and colleagues, I announce and ask the newly elected board presidents to make use of this time, perhaps today and tomorrow, by 10 and a half hours when we continue the session, to meet committees on agenda points. We cannot continue the session or discuss certain points of the agenda unless at least they have been discussed by the parent committees. Secondly, the chairman of the Committee on Finance, the state budget, Goran Maric, schedules at the "Josipa Jelačić" hall at 9:30 a.m. for his board meeting, and the chairman of the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction Mr Dragan Kovacevic also schedules a committee session tomorrow at 9 p.m. at the "Ante Starcevic" hall. I want you to get some rest, some of you can do it this afternoon. We'll continue at 10:30 in the morning.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u844	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. At the 6th session held on 29 February 2008, the Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out the proposal for a decision to appoint the president and members of the award committee “Vladimir Nazor”. First of all. The president of the award committee “Vladimir Nazor” is named academician Milan Moš, president of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts. Second. For members of the award committee “Vladimir Nazor” is named Goran Grgić - a drama artist, Damir Mataušić – an academic sculptor, professor at the Academy of Fine Arts in Zagreb, Academik Tonko Marojević – a historian of art, writer and translator, Jagoda Maja Martinčević – a historian of music, doctor of science Krešimir Nemec – a historian of literature, professor at the Faculty of Philosophy in Zagreb, Enes Mičić – academic photographer, professor at the Academy of Drama Arts in Zagreb, Jerko Rosim – an architect, professor at the University of Split and Tonko Ninić – academic musician. Thirdly, the president and members of the Vladimir Nazor Award have expired during the two-year legal period of 17 February 2008. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u845	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the committee's motion to vote. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? Restraint? Thank you. Please count the abstentions. The proposal was accepted with 121 votes for and 10 abstentions. Thank you. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u846	At the 7th session held on 14 March 2008, the Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously established the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of members and the election of the president of the Committee on European Integration of the Croatian Parliament. First, the responsibilities of the member of the Committee on European Integration of the Croatian Parliament, Neven Mimic, and secondly, are resolved, for the chairman of the Committee on European Integration of the Croatian Parliament, Neven Mimica is elected.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u847	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favour of the motion for a decision? We both vote one and two. Does anyone mind? Restraint? Thank you. A unanimous decision with 131 votes. Next, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u848	The Committee for Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament held at the 7th session held on 14 March 2008 unanimously set out the proposal for a decision on the selection of the Executive Board of the National Group of the Croatian Parliament at the Interparliamentary Union. In the Executive Board of the National Group of the Croatian Parliament at the Interparliamentary Union, they are elected President Marija Lugarić, Vice-President Josip Friščić, members of Dubravka Šuica, Susana Bilić Wardić, Silvano Hrelja, Goran Beus Richembergh and Boris Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u849	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a decision to vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Unanimity with 131 votes accepted by the motion for a decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u850	At the 7th session held on 14 March 2008, the Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out a proposal for a decision to appoint a delegation of the Croatian Parliament to the Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly. The delegation of the Croatian Parliament to the Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly is named President Dubravka Šuica, as members of Gary Cappelli, Luka Denon, as deputy members Marija Pejcinović Burić, Stipo Gabrić and Dino Kozlevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u851	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a decision to vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. A decision was taken unanimously with 131 votes. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u852	At the 7th session held on 14 March 2008, the Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously established the Proposal for a Decision appointing the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. In the delegation of the Croatian Parliament to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, Krešimir Ćosic is named as the leader, Boris Klemenic and Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u853	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal. Who's in? Thank you. Does anyone mind? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. With 131 votes, this motion for a decision has been adopted. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u854	At the 7th session held on 14 March 2008, the Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously established the Proposal for a Decision appointing the delegation of the Croatian Parliament to the Joint Parliamentary Committee of the Republic of Croatia and the European Union. For members of the delegation of the Croatian Parliament in the Joint Parliamentary Committee of the Republic of Croatia and the European Union, they shall be appointed President Mario Zubović, Vice-Presidents Frano Matušić and Branko Grčić, members of Krešimi Ćosić, Marija Pejcinović Burić, Jerko Rosin, Željana Kalaš, Milorad Pupovac, Marijana Petir, Marin Brkarić, Vesna Pusić, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, Antun Vujić, Daniel Mondekar and Ljubo Jurčić. As deputy members Petar Selem, Karmela Caparin, Nedjeljko STrikić, Stanko Grkić, Boris Kunst, Ivanka Roksandić, Nevenka Majdenić, Perica Bukić, Željko Jovanovic, Zvonimir Mršić, Miranda Mrsić, Gordana Sobol, Ivo Josipović, Davor Bernardić and Rajko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u855	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting forward a motion for a vote. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? Thank you. The abstentions? Thank you. The decision was adopted unanimously with 130 votes. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u856	At the 7th session held on 14 March 2008, the Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously established a proposal for a decision to elect a Croatian Parliament delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. In the delegation of the Croatian Parliament in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, they are elected leader Frano Matušić, members Marijana Petir, Mirjana Ferić-Vac, Miljenko Doric, Milorad Pupovac. For the deputy members Mario Zubović, Karmela Caparin, Marija Pejcinović Buric, Gvosden Srecko Flego and Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u857	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a motion for a vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. The decision was unanimously adopted by 129 votes. Let's move on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u858	Thank you. At the 7th session held on 14 March 2008, the Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously established the Proposal for a Decision appointing the Croatian Parliament delegation in the parliamentary dimension of the Central European Initiative. The delegation of the Croatian Parliament in the parliamentary dimension of the Central European Initiative is named as the leader of Milorad Pupovac, as members of Vesna Pusic, Ivan Bagarić. For the deputy members of Dubravko Šuica, Mirela Holly and Zdravko Kelić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u859	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a motion for a vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. I find that, unanimously with 129 votes, this proposal has been accepted. Keep going.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u860	At the 7th session held on 14 March 2008, the Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously established the Proposal for a Decision to appoint members of the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. In the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development of the Order of Representatives, Goran Maric, Dragan Kovacevic and Dragica Zgrebec are appointed members. As deputy member Marijana Petir, Silvano Hrelja and Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u861	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favour of this motion for a decision? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. This proposal was adopted unanimously by 129 votes. Keep going.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u862	At the 7th session held on 14 March 2008, the Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously established the Proposal for a Decision appointing the State Commission for the Assessment of damages from elementary disasters. In the State Commission for the Assessment of damages from elementary disasters is named President Niko Rebić, representative in the Croatian Parliament. For member Boris Klemenić, representative in the Croatian Parliament, Milivov Škvorc, representative in the Croatian Parliament, Petar Mlinarić, representative in the Croatian Parliament, Zlatko Koračević, representative in the Croatian Parliament, Denes Soja, representative in the Croatian Parliament, Zoran Vinković, representative in the Croatian Parliament, Jasminka Dejanović, head of the Department of Fundamental Accidents in the Ministry of Economy of Finance, Miljenko Rakić, head of the Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development Sector of the Ministry of Agriculture, Bozica Marković, Director of the Sector for Agriculture, Food and Forestry from the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, and Saša Smrek, an independent crop insurance expert from Croatia d.d. Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u863	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favour of the motion for this decision? Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. I find that, unanimously with 130 votes, the motion for a decision is accepted. Is there anything else? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u864	There is. At the 7th session held on 14 March 2008, the Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out a proposal for a decision to elect presidents and members of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the National Corruption Prevention Programme. 1. For the President of the National Council for Monitoring the Implementation of the National Corruption Prevention Programme, Zeljko Jovanovic is elected from the ranks of MPs, 2. For members of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the National Corruption Prevention Programme, Damir Sesvečan is elected from the ranks of MPs, Stanko Grčić from the ranks of MPs, Dragutin Lesar from the ranks of MPs and Ingrid Antičević-Marinovic from the ranks of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u865	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u866	3. The term of office of members of the National Council for monitoring the implementation of the National Corruption Prevention Programme shall continue until the end of the term of office of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u867	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favour of the motion for a decision? Thank you very much. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. I find that with 130 votes, this proposal has been unanimously accepted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u868	At the 7th session held on 14 March 2008, the Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out a proposal for a decision to elect members of the Supervisory Board of the Financial Agency. A member of the Supervisory Board of the Financial Agency in the order of parliamentary representatives is elected Nevenka Majdenić, a member of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u869	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favour of the motion for a decision? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. I find that, unanimously with 130 votes, the motion for a decision is accepted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u870	At the 7th session held on 14 March 2008, the Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously established the Proposal for a Decision to appoint a member of the Management Board of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development of the Republic of Croatia. As a member of the Management Board of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development of the Republic of Croatia is appointed on 1 May 2008 at the proposal of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts, Zvonko Kusić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u871	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favour of the motion for a decision? Thank you. Do you mind? Count it. Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 114 for and 16 against the accepted proposal for this decision. With this, we've concluded this agenda point for the day. We're moving on to choice and appointments. I ask the chairman of the Committee on Selection and Appointment of Ms. Nevenka Majdenic to... Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u873	Thank you. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. At the 8th session held on 28 March 2008, the selection and appointment committee and administrative tasks of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out a proposal for a decision to appoint a member of the National Committee. The National Committee is named Hrvoje Cvitanović, representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia, Doctor of Science Alexa Bjeliš, representative of the academic community, Emil Tedeski representative of the Association of Employers and Ana Knezevic of the Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u874	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on a proposal for this decision. Let's get on with it, please. You can vote. Here you go. Thank you. The result? This decision was taken with 120 votes in favour and one abstention. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u875	At the 8th session held on 28 March 2008, the Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously established a proposal for a decision to elect a Croatian Parliament delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for European Security and Cooperation. The delegation of the Croatian Parliament to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for European Security and Co-operation is selected: For the Head of Tonino Picula, for the members Mario Zubović, Romana Jerkovic and for the deputy members Furio Radin, Frano Matušić and Zlatko Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u876	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Mr Furio Radin is asking for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u877	I don't accept being part of this delegation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u878	What are you not accepting now?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u879	No one consulted me.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u880	Well, it's not common to come all of a sudden and say I don't accept it now. People, I think it's consistent and that it doesn't need...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u881	Yes, it's in line, the board has received suggestions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u882	Explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u883	The explanation is I wasn't consulted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u884	I suggest that representatives and MPs vote on the committee's proposal, so if there are any written resignations in subsequent events, then we can change it at the next session, but now we have something here. I think we should vote on this. Who's up for this proposal? Please turn yourself in and plead. Here you go. You can vote! Thank you. The result? This proposal was adopted by the majority of votes, 117 for, 3 abstentions and 1 against. Let's move on. Here you go, ma'am!
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u885	At the 8th session held on 28 March 2008, the Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously established the Proposal for a Decision appointing the delegation of the Croatian Parliament to the Assembly of the Western European Union. The delegation of the Croatian Parliament to the Assembly of the Western European Union is named: Zdenko Franić, for members: Marija Pejcinović Burić, Davor Huška, Ranko Ostojić, Ante Kotromanović, deputy members: Goran Marić, Željana Kalaš, Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić, Tanja Vrbat, Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u886	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Please engage and you can vote. Here you go. Thank you. The result? This decision was adopted unanimously with 111 votes. Thank you. Keep going.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u887	At the 8th session held on 28 March 2008, the Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously established a proposal for a decision to elect the president and vice-president of the Interparliamentary Cooperation Committee of the Croatian Parliament. 1. The Committee on Interparliamentary Cooperation of the Croatian Parliament elects: for President Milorad Pupovac, for Vice-President Marin Jurjevic and 2. Members of the Interparliamentary Cooperation Committee of the Croatian Parliament are all members elected to the permanent delegations of the Croatian Parliament in international parliamentary institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u888	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. And please engage. Let's vote. Here you go. Thank you. The result? And this decision was adopted unanimously with 120 votes in favour. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u889	At the 8th session held on 27 March, the Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out the Proposal for a decision to elect three members of the Island Council. For members of the Island Council, they are elected from the ranks of representatives of the Croatian Parliament Gary Cappelli, Nevenka Marinović and Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u890	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. And I'm putting the vote to the vote. Here you go, and you can vote. Thank you. The result? This proposal was adopted by 118 votes for and 2 abstentions. Thank you. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u891	At the 8th session held on 28 March 2008, the Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously established the Proposal for a Decision on the selection and appointment of members of the Committee on Stocks. 1. For members of the Committee on Stocks, they are selected from the order of representatives of the Croatian Parliament: Tomislav Ivić, Zdravko Kelić, Željko Vincelj and 2. For members of the Committee on Stocks, they are appointed from the ranks of prominent economic experts: Milica Rakuša Martulas and Bozica Marković.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-20-0.u892	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a motion for a vote. Please engage and vote. Here you go. Thank you. The result? This decision was adopted by a majority of 117 votes for and 2 abstentions. Thank you very much. I warmly thank you for your response, because we have made the decisions you are looking for qualified and two-thirds majority. Now we'll rest for a few days, maybe two weeks, and we'll decide in time when the next session of the Parliament is. Otherwise, I want you all to have a pleasant time this time, but don't forget those bill proposals and other acts in your boxes. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we continue our work and I hope you've rested and the committees discussed the agenda points for the session. We're going to the fourth item of the agenda. 4. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Community and the Republic of Croatia on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Employment and Social Solidarity Community Programme (PROGRESS), with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 3 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and in establishing the agenda they accepted the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this law. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was held: the Committee on Law, Development and Reconstruction, the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction, the Committee on Law, the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? He does. Ms Vera Babic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
