ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8179	Thank you, Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Lady and gentlemen of Parliament. In front of you is the report on the preparedness of the defence system, the implementation of human resources policy and the overall state of the Armed Forces for 2007, which, based on the Law on Defence, the Government of the Republic of Croatia submits to the Croatian Parliament. The 2007 report refers to a period of exceptional importance for the further development of the defence system. I stress the adoption of long-term development plans of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, which are the basis and adopted here in the Croatian Parliament in 2006, the plan, the long-term plan for the development of the Armed Forces, and the strengthening of activities that have led to an increase in the level of consistency of processes and resources with the standards of the member states of Euro-Atlantic integration. The report shows in six wholes the state of the defence system, the degree of readiness achieved and the management processes in the main areas of its action. The report answers three basic questions: How do we manage defence systems, how do we use resources, and at the end, which we develop or develop in this way. The analysis of the security environment of the Republic of Croatia creates a low probability of conventional threats, but at the same time increases the risk of terrorism, the spread of weapons of mass destruction, and similar forms of threats. The international scene is largely determined by international security and requires the engagement of the International Community, primarily by the United Nations, as well as by other international organisations. For the last decade, he marked an increase in the number of peace operations that have been trying to stabilise many crisis areas around the world. A reduced expression of conventional military threats in the nearby environment and an increased impact of transnational challenges at regional, global, global level, gives room for increased participation of the Republic of Croatia in international peace and security activities. The Republic of Croatia currently participates in 13 UN peacekeeping missions, and in ISAP in Afghanistan under NATO's leadership, with the approval of the United Nations. International engagement requires the adaptation of Croatia's security and defence system to its integration into the global security system. Such judgment imposes the need for further reforms of the Croatian defence system. The intensive reform processes that took place during 2007 focused on increasing the operational capabilities of Croatian Armed Forces, improving the defence management process, adapting to NATO alliances, and developing staff management systems. The analysis and adaptation of legislation that regulates the issue of interest in the defence of the Republic of Croatia has been continued. The amendment was implemented by the adoption of appropriate laws on amendments to the Law on Defence and the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the adoption of the Law on the Coast Guard of the Republic of Croatia. The adoption of the Law on the Coast Guard of the Republic of Croatia has enabled the establishment of the Coast Guard within the Croatian Navy, thus giving the Republic of Croatia the necessary powers to monitor and protect Croatia's rational interests in the Protected Ecological Fisheries Belt and to support all other bodies in charge of the supervision and protection of the rights and interests of the Republic of Croatia. During 2007, the Republic of Croatia successfully implemented applications to join NATO, the European Union, reform of the defence system, and promote international and regional stability and security. The development of the objectives of the defence policy of the Republic of Croatia at the annual level, i.e. the implementation of reform processes, was designed by the annual guidelines of defence planning. Preparations for full NATO membership were developed by the Annual National Programme in the context of NATO's membership action plan. The Long-term Development Plan of the Armed Forces was developed through implementation plans in six functional areas: staff management, international military cooperation, equipment and modernisation, real estate management, strategic communications networks and information, and research and development. The Implementing Plans operationalised projects and activities to enable the gradual achievement of the target capabilities by 2015. During 2007, changes in the organisational structure of the Armed Forces were established, as well as the equipment and training of units and commands. Significant activities of the Armed Forces were also participation in peacekeeping operations, assistance to civilian institutions, planning and carrying out military exercises, and participation in international exercises as part of international military cooperation. Participation in NATO exercises in the country and abroad played an important role in training members and troops of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia to defend the country. During 2007, the Logistics System of Armed Forces worked intensively to adapt NATO standards and procedures, and the high degree of interoperability achieved was confirmed by the support of forces at the Nobel Midas 07 exercise and the organization of the Loges 07 exercise, which was organised and implemented in cooperation with the States signatories of the US-Adriatic Charter. The training of the Armed Forces in 2007 focused on achieving interoperability with NATO through strengthening and reflecting the readiness of individuals and units declared for NATO-led operations and exercises, and on developing the capacity to assist civilian institutions and populations in the event of natural or environmental accidents or disasters. Armed forces continued actively to assist civil institutions in the country by participating in fire and anti-indulgent activities, logistics and other support, engineering and construction work, as well as in air transport of life-threatening patients. Some 1650 members of the Armed Forces who showed preparedness and high degree of motivation in carrying out those tasks took part in various tasks during the 2007 fire season. Professional approach, training and pawnage have produced enviable results in the elimination of major forest fires. A high level of training and training to assist civil institutions and the population has been demonstrated by the successful involvement of the Armed Forces in fire-fighting activities. Support and active participation in the international community's efforts to strengthen international peace and stability have been continued as a permanent commitment to Croatia's security and defence policy. The UN's peacekeeping operations increased, and during 2007, the number of members of the Croatian Armed Forces in the ISAP Peace Mission in Afghanistan increased from 147 to two hundred. In 2007, a large part of the priority equipment acquired was intended for members of the armed forces participating in international missions primarily in the ISAP Peace Mission in Afghanistan. Everyone points out that in 2007, more extensive equipment processes, the modernisation of the armed forces were launched. A contract was concluded on the development of a domestic assault rifle. The selection of the most favourable bidders for the delivery of foot soldiers' armored vehicles has been carried out. New school planes have been introduced into operational use. She started delivering transport helicopters from... And it's been arranged for the purchase of new fire-fighting aircraft. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is important to stress that the contract on the purchase of foot-and-mouth armored vehicles that include... Secured technology transfer to domestic military equipment manufacturers and armed forces will be equipped with modern combat armored vehicles. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Introduction of new equipment, adoption and application... documents, intensive participation in training and training activities of members of the armed forces with members of the NATO Armed Forces, and successful participation in international peace operations confirmed the progress of the Republic of Croatia in the process of transforming the armed forces and achieving the criteria for full membership in NATO. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] During 2007, the Republic of Croatia made further progress towards meeting NATO membership requirements. The participation of the Republic of Croatia in the process of integration and convergence of NATO membership took place within the framework of the Partnership for Peace and the Membership Action Plan. During the year, participation in the Partnership for Peace has been defined by the activities of the individual partnership programme, the planning and resolution process, i.e. the partnership objectives and the annual national plan. The individual partnership programme in 2007 contained 4100 84 activities. The priority was activities that directly support the implementation of the taken-over partnership objectives, training of declared units in line with NATO standards,integrating their participation in the concept of operational capabilities and NATO exercises open to partners. The PAL cycle ended in January 2008. NATO's assessment found further progress of the Republic of Croatia in defence reforms and adapting the system to the requirements of future membership in the alliance. The NATO expert finding is that the Republic of Croatia is ready for membership from the perspective of the defence system. The estimated achievements of the Republic of Croatia confirmed the readiness of the Republic of Croatia for full NATO membership and, in line with the expectations of the meeting, we received an invitation to join the alliance at the NATO summit in Bucharest on 3 April this year. Staff management policy is based on four main programming areas, staff procurement, professional development,... support, and transition and separation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The basic tasks of the dual-kind management system, meeting the needs of a military organisation for quality personnel, while providing and providing adequate support to each member of the armed forces. The main development objectives in the field of human resources management are reaching a fully professional staff structure, contractual reserves, voluntary handbooks and a new category of military specialists staff. The adopted concept of uniform staff management sets out the principles and basic procedures in all human resource management programmes. A human resource management doctrine has been developed and the establishment of a staff management centre that will play a central, priority implementation role in staff management and directly cover all functions of professional development of all categories of military and civilian personnel in armed forces. Targeted numbered size of the active group of armed forces by the end of 2009 16 thousand military personnel and 1600 civil servants and tenants. The overall number of state of the Ministry of Defence of the Armed Forces on 31 December 2007 was 22 thousand and 650 employees, while here at the beginning of May this year there were 22 thousand 465 employees. The programme of staff procurement as a permanent process of attracting, selecting and receiving the completeness of the training sites of the armed forces to the best candidates shall be carried out in accordance with the long-term plans and needs of the defence system. The 2007 military personnel procurement plan has been completed by about 90%. The failure to meet the plan in the section relating to obtaining officers was caused by the unsatisfactory response of the candidates for the officers' posts of deficits. Professional development of members of the armed forces enables the individual to reach, maintain and develop the skills necessary for the successful conduct of the assigned duties. It is carried out with a growing and subsequent military and functional education, the assignment of various duties, self-development and advancement in service and promotion in rank. The monitoring of professional development of members of the armed forces is improved through the development of a professional development model, with continued monitoring of the development of civil professions and appropriate adjustments to the military system. ... support is aimed at estimating the work and meeting the individual’s personal needs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It covers areas of wages and other material benefits and incentives of housing, health care, family care, psychological support, rest, rest and free time, recognition, preparation for the end of a military career. The purpose of personal support is to raise the quality of life that directly affects the procurement and retention of quality staff and the professional development of all categories of employees. The achievement of the target numerical size and structure of the active composition of the armed forces is not possible without systematic plan-separation of personnel. In 2007, the planned separation of primarily older personnel who acquire legal conditions for retirement, military personnel whose health skills do not meet the criteria for staying in the active military service, was continued. These civilian and military personnel are inadequately trained. Part of the civil servants and subsistence shall be singled out by organisational separation from the defence system of individual service activities. The implementation of the staff allocation plan in 2007 is 83.8% and the failure of part of the plan is conditioned by difficulties in the organisational separation of service activities. Issuing personnel has been followed... transitions, individual staff care, spectrum covering information, transition workshops, professional training, counselling and self-employment assistance and an increased severance system for employment purposes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] During 2007, 41 transition workshops were held in the regional transition departments, which entitled 5 hundred and 14 participants to use the support programme. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on Defence of July 2007 authorised the Croatian Parliament to decide not to invite recruits to serve the military term. It is prescribed that, with the prior consent of the Supreme Commander, the Government of the Republic of Croatia may propose to the Croatian Parliament a decision on non-inviting recruits to serve the military deadline on the basis of the defence needs and interests of the Republic of Croatia. In line with the above-mentioned legal provisions on the Government proposal, the Croatian Parliament made a decision not to call the recruits on the obligation to serve the military period from 1 January 2008, making another significant step towards full professionalisation of the armed forces. The amendments and additions to the Defence Act have been regulated that, after the adoption of the Decision on the non-inviting of recruits on the obligation to serve the military deadline, it will be made possible to provide the money which is wanted by voluntary military service, and therefore the Regulation on voluntary service of the military period and preparations are being made for the first call of volunteer handbooks that we expect since the summer of this year. The reserve component of the Armed Forces is gradually reduced and conditions are created for completing the Armed Forces with a contractual reserve as a new category of staff. As a special part of this report, the state of defence preparations is also covered, since the Defence Act is prescribed for the Croatian Parliament to report once a year on the state of defence preparations in the Republic of Croatia. During 2007, representatives of the Ministry of Defence also visited the competent representatives of the central authorities in contact with the state of defence preparations and gave guidance on their further promotion. The central state authorities are conducting defence preparations under their jurisdiction and have updated their existing plans during 2007. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude that the readiness of the defence system of the Republic of Croatia to implement the Staff Policy and the overall situation in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia shows that the Republic of Croatia has and develops the defence system is appropriate to the needs and levels of threats and challenges facing it. Armed forces and the entire defence system are going through a period of complete transformation and building new abilities. Specially intensive activities are being carried out that meet the criteria for achieving interoperability with NATO defence systems. In addition to all transformation processes and challenges, the Armed Forces and the Defence System successfully carry out all the tasks prescribed by the Constitution, laws and strategic documents, and those required by them by the Croatian Parliament, the President of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8180	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'd like to point out that. Many agenda points that have been included have not been developed by adequate committees. It cannot be debated if there are no conditions on these points of the agenda, so we are forced to skip certain points of the agenda. I ask that during today's day those committees who have not discussed their part belonging to the parent and other committees do so in order to discuss certain points, preferably according to the order we have. So I ask you to make time and get those points of the agenda discussed. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. The chairman of the Defence Committee, Mr. Representative Boris Shprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8181	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Let me briefly sum up actually this report. I would not read it entirely, except as I would say that the Committee on Defence as a parent working body has considered this report, that the debate was principled and individual, that the Committee held conflicting views in principle. One is that the annual report is comprehensive, precise and clear and unambiguous, and that without unnecessary details reflects the state of the defence system. The second opinion put forward that the report is general and not transparent enough and represents a step backwards from last year's reports. In an individual debate, part of the MPs noted that there is no objective review of the situation that is not ideal, but it is satisfactory in view of the threats, needs and possibilities of the Republic of Croatia. It was pointed out that the report in question insufficiently processed equipment and equipment condition and considered it necessary to conduct a discussion in the Croatian Parliament on all major procurements of strategic equipment. With human resources, it has been observed when it comes to welcoming wage increases. However, further efforts should be made primarily in the area of housing, but also in improving the quality of life at the time of rest. It has been pointed out that it is necessary to take more care of the reputation of officers and that the Ministry of Defence should react to every meal in the media, as the command system directly affects combat preparedness. It has been pointed out that future reports should take more account of the problem of protection and rescue. The debate said that the readiness of the Armed Forces is particularly visible in the participation of the Armed Forces in the Peace Missions in Afghanistan as well as in the implementation of an international military exercise with NATO forces in the course of 2007. Finally, the Committee unanimously concluded that the report in question is being adopted and one other conclusion was proposed by the majority of the votes, so we propose that it be adopted at this plenary session, which is that the Government is tasked with taking care of opinions, remarks and proposals made at the Committee's meeting in 2008. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8182	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Committee on Gender Equality, Madam Chairman of the Gordana Sobol Board.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8183	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. At its 4th session, the Committee on Gender Equality discussed the Annual Report on the preparedness of the Defence System, the implementation of the Staff Policy and the overall situation in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia with a report on the state of defence preparations as an interested working body and specifically referred to that part of the annual report on training and education, and to the part relating to human resources management. Namely, in the National Policy for the Promotion of Gender Equality 2006/2010. For years, there are certain measures prescribed, and for which implementation for the holder of the designated Ministry of Defence. This relates first to the review of the training programme for members and members of security services from the perspective of gender equality and human rights of women whose holder is the head of the Ministry of Defence, together with other ministries and agencies, and also to ensure that women with special emphasis on their higher representation in the management posts are better represented in the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces. Both measures have a deadline for implementation. As regards the training programme since 2007 and 2008, this second measure on women's higher representation is the deadline for implementation in 2007 and 2010. The Defence Act also obliges the competent ministry to take into account, through the Staff Council, the provision of equal access and treatment of members of both sexes. In the opinion of the members and members of the Committee in the implementation of the Staff Policy in the Armed Forces, it is necessary to take account of the increased representation of women in particular in the management positions. The Committee unanimously decided to propose two conclusions to the Croatian Parliament. First, to adopt an annual report on the preparedness of the defence system, the implementation of the Staff Policy and the overall situation in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia with a report on the state of defence preparations in the Republic of Croatia. Another conclusion, the government of the Republic of Croatia is tasked that in the next annual reports on the preparedness of the defence system, the implementation of human resources policy in the overall state of the Armed Forces, all data relating to human resources management policy, points to gender.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8184	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8185	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. First of all, it is important to point out that the HDZ Club will give full support to this report because it gives an overall and objective way of showing the overall situation in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, without any unnecessary details. What should be pointed out today when we talk about the Annual Report on the State of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia for 2007, just a month after the Republic of Croatia received an invitation for full membership in the NATO Alliance, then it should certainly be pointed out and remembered that the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia were the institution that gave the key, I would say the most important contribution to the defence, to the creation of the Republic of Croatia, but also, it is the institution which has been particularly looked at on all the problems of the reorganisation, restructuring and adaptation of the NATO alliance by NATO experts. In this regard, we must also give recognition to the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia for all that they have done in recent years, but I would like to stress especially for all that the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia have done for all the past 17 years. It is not excessive at this time, as I said, just a month after receiving an invitation for full membership of the Republic of Croatia in the NATO Alliance, remember the very beginnings. Remember, on 28 May 1991, when the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia had only a few hundred people and several hundred Kalashnikovs at the stadium in Kranjcevic. It should be remembered, also this time and summer 1991, when many serious military experts, experts claimed, not without reason, Croatia will not last 14 days. It wasn't any prognosis. These were facts that corresponded to a real relationship of power, primarily weapons and military equipment. It should also be remembered that the Yugoslav People's Army, which led the aggression, not only in the Republic of Croatia, was one of the strongest armed forces in Europe, according to statistics. Fourth, many say by the number of tanks, planes, cannons and other weapons. It should be remembered that the military industry of the country that began its aggression against the Republic of Croatia only in 1989 had almost $2 billion in arms and military equipment exports. Finally, it should be remembered in this short introduction and "Bleska" and "Storm" only 4 years later, after that lineup at the stadium in Kranjcevic on 28 May 1991. These are huge successes, results and achievements. Finally, the beginning of May 2008 and the fact that the Republic of Croatia received an invitation for full membership in the NATO Alliance and, in addition to all other institutions of the Republic of Croatia, a particularly important place throughout the process and that recognition had just been given by the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and therefore there was no exaggeration, since only a month has passed since receiving an invitation in Bucharest for full membership in NATO, thanks to all Croatian defenders, especially those who took the most difficult burden on their backs in 1991. Certainly, it is an opportunity to thank the entire Croatian state policy, which has wisely led the Republic of Croatia towards defence, independence and Euro-Atlantic integration, especially NATO and the EU for all 17 years. Of course, thanks should also be given to the Croatian state police, which is also in those most difficult times since '91. '95. She was the leader of the Croatian people and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. Here's a brief review of this report. What has been constant for all these 17 years when it comes to the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, then it is an intense reconstruction and reorganisation. There are almost no bodies of the state administration that have passed such intense restructuring, development, modernisation, with all the challenges that the war has meant. And in that sense, regardless of the various criticisms and remarks, the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, have known each other during all the periods of these past years, 17 years have faced all the challenges that have caused the weather, as it was in 1991 when out of just a few hundred Kalashnikovs and several hundred people, they were able to assume the responsibility of defending and liberating the Republic of Croatia in '95. years with nearly 2,000 people. The intensive reconstruction, in terms of size, strength, continued after, I would say in 1998 after the peaceful reintegration of the Republic of Croatia, of these remaining occupied areas. In the second direction of a rapid, significant reduction so that the overall size and structure of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia corresponds to macroeconomic capacity and priorities and to the available state budget. Certainly, there were some in this re-organisation and re-organisation, I would say failures and mistakes, and this particularly highlights the importance of NATO experts and experts, who in particular in 2002, in 2003 pointed to the unacceptableness of the corpus structure of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, the unacceptableness of such a structure in space and time in the Croatian state budget, security assessments, etc. and this is a good example to which NATO's expertise these past years has been very helpful in profiling the Croatian Armed Forces, or the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia as a whole. Certainly, now that the size that is appropriate to the needs is achieved, the security assessments of the possibilities of the state budget, the priorities of the state budget, then we will have to concentrate far more on quality problems. The higher quality possible in humans, education, training, training and equipment, and this is a very important and new priority that we must be fully focused on. It was one thing to be a candidate for NATO membership, another position, another obligation, another responsibility is imposed on full members of NATO, it requires greater responsibility, greater obligations, greater challenges, I would say far more quality and more efficient management in limited defence budgets because of the fact that many others in Croatia are watching and rightly require that they be given some attention and necessary attention when it comes to education, when it comes to particularly defenders those who have played a very important role in creating the Armed Forces and taking maximum responsibility for defence and the creation of the Croatian State at the beginning of the Homeland War. A few words about priorities when it comes to the process of modernising the Armed Forces. Very often in public, aircraft, navy, coast guard, F16 flu, and then rocket systems Milan, spaj Javeres, mistral, etc. I can't afford it. Not many others who are far richer. I'll emphasize the following. Priority in modernising the Armed Forces should always be as man has been so far, these are people who deserve special attention and care. They give quality management, they give quality tasks, but I would say full membership in the NATO Alliance requires new challenges for the highest officers of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. Participation in NATO headquarters bodies in Mons, Brussels, participation in the military bodies of the United Nations, New York, participation of staff officers in Peace Operations in Kabul, Mazar-i Sharif, Fezabad, Lebanon, Chad and many other places, Sierra Leone, requires top professionals well-educated, well-prepared and experienced and this is a special challenge. If we meet the needs of all these places, there could be a deficit of high-level high-ranking officers in the Armed Forces themselves in the Central Command, and that's something we need to keep a special account of. Certainly, the role of the officers is very important, but particularly important, the role of the Croatian soldier who today participates in this important key NATO peacekeeping operation, not only of NATO but of the international community as a whole. Professionalisation in this sense is the right choice and should be further strengthened in terms of training, quality, as well as the equipment of these people. One question when we talk about human policy, then we should stress the following. Having good people, having the best challenge is. Knowing how to keep them, how to motivate them, is a particularly difficult task when public sector wages are not so challenging, they are not so competitive with everything offered in today's market. It's very important to analyze and learn lessons through everything we've been through. Analysis of our young cadets who have passed exceptional quality education in the best military academys of the world of West Point, San Sierra, etc. How many of them are still in the Armed Forces, where they are in positions, which are their influence, is a very important analysis of human resources policy, and I believe that in that 2008 report we will hear more about it, because this is a very important aspect of the modernisation of our Armed Forces. Many of our young cadets, many of our young engineers, masters who once attended postgraduate studies, targeted at the University of Zagreb, mathematicians, physicists, electricians, etc. You need to see how many of them are still left at the Department of Defense. Competition depends on wages, and it should be pointed out in particular that it is very important that the Croatian government's decision to increase salaries in the Ministry of Defence because without it it is difficult to preserve what is best, and these are senior officers, officers and soldiers, and in this sense they must have appropriate treatment as professionals and as people who are in their jobs meeting with such challenging tasks as peace operations around the world. The state of technical modernisation of the defence minister stressed. Significant steps are being taken, combat armored vehicles one important step in modernising the Armed Forces, new helicopters, new aircraft, but I will say without exaggeration, priority in technical modernisation must be our people who participate in demanding peace operations in Afghanistan, their equipment, means of connections, easy walking weapons, protective equipment, and that is what we really need to respect as a priority because it depends on the success of the peace work, their safety depends on it. Croatia is a maritime state, and this is why it is understandable and logical that priority in further equipment alongside armored combat vehicles deserves the Coast Guard. The Croatian state budget is doing everything possible to meet the standards, requirements, criteria, expectations to reach that level of 2% of gross national income, but what is particularly important and what needs to be highlighted and what is a positive effect of all these key changes in recent years is a better structure of the defence budget. Today, the level of redundancy for employees is 59% as reported in the 2007 report. A few years ago this was far more, and this also means that the possibility of a far faster and more intense modernisation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia is being opened. And here's what I might conclude next. When we talk about grades, then the NATO team's experts are crucial. I would say that some day it could be heard in the American Congress where it is said, quote: "Croatia is increasingly contributing to political stability and peace both in the Balkans and the world. The Croatian government has shown high commitment to taking full responsibility for full NATO membership." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8186	Thank you. The HSS Club, the esteemed representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8187	Honorable Vice President, Honorable Ministers, Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Today we are discussing the readiness of the defence system, but we must remember what it does and remind ourselves of the Law of Defence which says it also contains war, but also civil defence. So here my debate is going to be a little bit focused on this one other part that we often neglect, and I don't think we're right about that. But first of all, we from the Croatian Peasant Party want to commend all members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia who are in Afghanistan, as well as members of the Armed Forces of the police, and civil servants who participate in other peace operations. In addition, we would like to commend all other members of the Armed Forces of the Police, Firefighters, the Mountain Rescue Service, as well as members of other institutions of society and others who, within their scope, professionally, but in particular, highlight those who do so voluntarily, care for the defence of security and protection of the Republic of Croatia and its citizens. Here, I believe that this report, or our debate, will also benefit from the development of certain plans for the next or future action of both our ministry and the preparation of the overall defence system, as well as the protection. We believe that this report that we are discussing today, in a satisfactory way, covers some important problems, challenges and tasks that the Ministry of Defence encounters, and especially the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia with the management and management structure as a whole. However, we are not sure whether it is enough, in a very balanced way, to include other parts, or elements of the defence system. In doing so, we think, above all, of civil defence, and of the position and relationship of the defence system with other parts of the national security system of the Republic of Croatia. Why are we thinking that? Because we live in a time when military forces are less likely to be threatened, but therefore there are largely non-war threats. In fact, the retentive position of science is that the process of abolishing or abandoning a general military obligation and the emergence of a wide range of non-war threats means the need to develop other, neglected defence components, primarily crisis planning and management in emergency situations and crises. What kind of threats are we talking about, and what are we thinking here? First of all, we are talking about events or situations that may threaten human security, for example those who include and cause or may cause loss of human life, disease or human injury, destruction of property, interruption of cash flow, food, water, energy and others. Social and other unrest, in this regard we think of events or situations that may threaten environmental threats, e.g. those which include and cause or may cause soil, water or air contamination, hazardous biological, chemical or radioactive substances or oil. We mean floods, we mean interruptions and destruction of the plant and animal world. Events that could threaten security are also terrorism or war or ultimately armed conflict. Changes in threats in modern conditions are visible, and the need to develop the ability to respond to these threats by society institutions. The features of today's world characterise rapid and dynamic changes in international relations, and new security challenges, risks and threats require new solutions both at national and international level. It is particularly difficult to determine the share of military and civilian components in the process. As far as the national security system of the Republic of Croatia is known, we are referring to the Security Intelligence Agency, the Military Security Intelligence Agency, and the defence system of the Republic of Croatia alone includes the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. The army. The defence system also includes state authorities, local and regional self-government, ministries and state administrative organisations with legal persons and their work, as well as the Organisation for the Protection and Rescue of People and Material Goods whose functioning is important in the conditions of emergency or crisis, major natural disasters, accidents and disasters. The citizens of the Republic of Croatia also have their duties in defence, as well as protection. In doing so, we mean military obligations, labour obligations, material obligations and the obligation to participate in civil protection. We point out this because in the Republic of Croatia in the area of defence, security and security we have different developed individual elements of the system, and we have not yet built a system, and at the same time for a long time our strategic goal is to join NATO and the European Union. I am afraid that without a real desire to build a common system in which each of the elements will be roughly equally developed to each other, we can hardly integrate something quality into NATO and the European Union. Therefore, we aim to point to the good side of the reports, as well as to problems in order to solve them effectively and more quickly. What do we find satisfying in this report? The process of reform at the Ministry of Defence, and especially in its military section, is far better than in any segment of the state administration, but these reforms may sometimes be slow about the process of modernising material resources, which we believe is an objective financial reason. The defence ministry, in accordance with NATO or NATO modes of work, adopted a defence system management method through the annual guidelines for defence planning and put it into legal and sublegal legislation. Coast Guard operations have been completed, which is a major and very important job for overall national security. With this in mind, we hope that better conditions for protecting the Adriatic Sea have been obtained, and that they will soon find solutions to the lack of equipment and the necessary training of firemen to put out fires at sea, and all that affects the efficiency of the system. However, we must conclude that the competent institutions in the mentioned case of a Turkish ship have done their job in a solid manner, and the Republic of Croatia has shown that it is ready for possible similar haematies or accidents. Co-operation with NATO-led operation in Afghanistan has increased. The priorities of modernising the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia have been identified, and modernisation includes the Croatian economy, which is good. It's about equipment and training declared units for peace operations. The plan is to allocate and admit new staff to activities that are not closely linked to defence management and close and re-use military properties. The report may pay more attention to and supplement some of the elements, such as point 2.3, which discusses the readiness of the defence system where we draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the provisions of Article 3. The Law on Defence defines the defence system as part of the national security system of the Republic of Croatia, which is a unique form of structure and preparation of the holder of military and civil defence aimed at achieving the defence objectives. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on defence has been established that the military defence includes the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the structure responsible for the management, management and command of them. In that part of the report, we believe that civil defence or protection and rescue could have been more extensively processed. In the section of the report relating to additives, there are no annexes or reviews relating to the civilian component of the defence system or to certain parts thereof. The report on the implementation of the defence plan of the Republic of Croatia and the implementation of defence preparations or the State of Defence Preparations report in the Republic of Croatia is getting shorter and shorter each time. We believe that the following report should provide more precise information as to what is the situation in each of the individual central authorities of the state administration and other civil defence holders. We have a long-term development plan for the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia but we do not have a long-term plan for the development of the overall defence and overall national security system, and when a plan for the use of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia is drawn up, a plan for the functioning of the economy and social activities and other documents, and when some parts of these plans are brought into line with NATO and the European Union, and in practice, we believe that only then is the condition for the development of a new strategic review of the defence and only then the defence strategy followed by legislative and sublegal regulations with plans and operational procedures. We do not know the reasons why the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not yet adopted the concept of transforming civil defence into an emergency and crisis management system that should have been adopted by the end of 2006 in accordance with the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This issue is highlighted for reasons why, sometimes, during the implementation of international civil-military exercises, problems arise concerning the crisis planning and management system in emergency situations and crises. A system of civil and civil-military crisis planning and emergency and crisis management has not been developed and there are no plans for standard operating procedures. Our proposal is quick to reconcile views and find solutions to the development of crisis planning and management in emergency situations and crises because this is an area of considerable lag behind modern trends and in the conditions set out in our country in an effort to join NATO and the European Union. Unsolved personnel problems in part of the central authorities of the state administration of the unit of regional self-government and legal persons whose functioning is important in the conditions of emergency situations and crises, major accidents and disasters and war. The regulations of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the internal structure of the central authorities of the state administration are not yet sufficiently clear on defence, security and security matters, crisis planning and crisis management. In order to ensure organisational, coordination and other tasks in the field of defence, security and protection, in particular in the jurisdiction of the central authorities of the state administration, it is necessary to create and maintain appropriate human and other conditions for the purpose of quality and continuity in their implementation. In addition, it is evident that in crisis planning and crisis management operations, part of the state administration body is not adequate or not filled in at all by employees who can create their own supplementary instructions, draw up proposals of their own government bodies' plans and actively participate in the education and supervision of functional processes at all levels of their own work. In addition to national tasks, those workers must also be trained in parallel for new tasks set before defence, security and protection. The participation of members or civil defence holders in international peace operations and other activities abroad, civil support for collective military defence and support for peace operations and other activities abroad, obligations on international protection and rescue and definition of the national crisis and crisis management centre for civil and civil-military crisis management that should be brought into line with NATO and the European Union. We think that the system can only be effective when it recognises and foresees possible threats and situations, recognises and prepares resources and other capabilities for these threats, when defining their responsibilities, better equipment and dedicated forces, increases local and regional readiness to react. Also, given the country's opportunities, no one can expect a radical turning point in a short period of time, but it is difficult sometimes to find an alibi for the situation in the area. The State is obliged to carry out and take all necessary activities and measures to achieve all functions of defence and security, protection. If it does not do so, it will need to compensate through self-organization, which often characterizes styphines and spyonarchy, which in any way reduces the effectiveness of the defence system and especially of protective behaviour and action. The defence-security protection function must be effective, it must achieve a fundamental objective and achieve an adequate and as high as possible level of security. It must rightly respond to modern dangers and dangers, eradicate them, prevent, and prevent their harmful activities. Defence, security and security are a key prerequisite for the democratic and economic development of the Republic of Croatia. Following the presented club, the HSS supports this Report in the faith and hopes that the following report will give more substance to the space of civil defence or the protection function of society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8188	Thank you. SDP club Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8189	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. Any debate concerning the Croatian Army must be deprived of politicised and daily political bickering. This is the standard that SDP representatives held without exception during each debate in the previous years, so it will be this year. The SDP Club will support the adoption of the Annual Report, although the report itself is not at the level of those in recent years. So, compared to this report last year, we can conclude, the situation in the military is something better and only the report is worse than last year. The impression was that in last year's, but all previous reports were more detailed, more objective and pointed to some problems in the army that were not solved, and they were not expected to be resolved for just one year and should not have been dropped from this year's report. To explain my assessment, I'll take a few examples. In last year's report, the following assessment clearly stands for 2006. It continues to be rashed by professional logistics, the number of logistics staff has been initially delayed, designated for operation under military conditions and is insufficient for logistics support of combat operations in the field of operations. The introduction of military specialists as new categories of armed forces plans to resolve at least part of the difficulties associated with logistics staff. This problem is no longer mentioned in this year's report, but there is no mention of military specialists except in one place and in the main development objectives of staff management. The table at the end of the report shows that the number of people who left the system is higher than planned, and the number of people with VSS who entered the system is less than planned. So it is clear that the problem has not been solved, it may be even more pronounced, but it is no longer listed in the report. I don't think that kind of self-censorship is necessary, because that's why no one would call the ministry. Furthermore, the entire supply system is currently functioning and supporting armed forces under retirement conditions, but is conceptually outdated. Storages are technologically outdated, automatic processes of monitoring the situation through the development and establishment of the logistics information system are in the beginning. It is clear to me that the logistics information system cannot be implemented in a longer time than a year. And it's clear that the problem remains. However, this report is no longer mentioned. I'll list some more, some details that are also not mentioned in this report, are read from last year's: "The footarms in December are over 20 years old, the amount of proper weapons in the armed forces satisfies the proposed structures but not compatible with most NATO armies. Firearms are different calibers and are near the end of life and age. The anti-arming means are mostly of eastern origin and are partly outdated. Domestic production killings were produced in '91. Until '97, so they ran out of time resources. On the basis of the studies carried out, it is apparent that the total amount of ORSRH funds satisfys the time resources.". None of these problems mentioned in last year's report, these were quotes from last year's report not solved. He couldn't have been solved in just a year, but they're no longer listed as problems, although this is a status report, it's a state and there's no reason not to mention when it was already listed last year. Further than planned projects, the RBS 15 rocket is not realised, it will move for 2007. Integrated domestic production communication system, rocket gun 12 has not been tested and downloaded because the number has been remounted. The last two projects, and this was a quote from last year's report, are listed in this year's report, but not as realised, but as formulations, preparations are being made for the conclusion of the contract. So it wasn't a contract, so it couldn't even be a real project. There's probably an acceptable solution to that. And this isn't a calling, this is just an argument why I think the report is a step back from last year. Otherwise, HRM's tasks are controlled by ZERP and since it has been more or less abolished, they may not be priorities anymore, so it was probably slowed down as well. There are similar examples, but I think they are enough to explain why I think this year's text report is a step backwards from the previous one. Let's remind ourselves. And reports for 2005 when it was published, not when it came to the Parliament, had a negative echo in the media. But it is the parliamentary debate of MPs, regardless of party membership, that the MPs disagree with the catastrophic assessments that were then given. In the section relating to the state and arms of military equipment, it should be said that there have been positive shifts as a consequence of the larger budget as well as the better structure of the military budget, because the reforms that we have been talking about and which have started since 2002 are reducing the share of the budget spent on employees' salaries. I believe that the newly formed Defence Board will have the opportunity to be more detailed about the equipment projects, so there is no need for further expansion of this topic. I'd like to point out other remarks and suggestions. The report correctly and in line with the modern concepts of security, I quote: "Safety can no longer be seen exclusively from the military aspect, but as a total of political, economic, social, environmental and humanitarian components.". Other security challenges resulting from the development of information, communication technology are also accurately and correctly detected. At the same time, and that's a suggestion, there's no mention of energy security. On the European security strategy and in NATO's current documents, considerable attention and importance is given to energy security, and this is an area or problem that needs to be taken into account. The second assessment speaks, quotes: "Most Southeast European countries are in the process of joining Euro-Atlantic integration, making the regional environment of the Republic of Croatia more stable and secure.". It's different from last year's grade that had an addition. The Republic of Croatia will particularly monitor developments in Southeast Europe with particular emphasis on resolving Kosovo's status and the possible and security consequences of the process. I think the issue of Kosovo as well as the consequences it has on Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina and other countries in the region is still worth special attention and deserves to be specifically cited. Several new laws or amendments to existing laws were passed last year, but dropped the law on the closure and re-use of military properties mentioned in the previous report. To that law, several assessments and plans on improving the MORH financial plan were related to the adoption of that law. However, I personally think it is good that this law has been abandoned. Namely, it's about objects... by means of all citizens for military purposes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After the military declares that these facilities are not needed by the government and that they should have the Parliament at their disposal in the best way possible. Moreh and armed forces should not be a real estate brokerage agency. There are other institutions for that. The report states that defence policy is constantly being developed and implemented as a component of the security policy in the frameworks set out in the National Security Strategy, the Defence Strategy and the Government of the Republic of Croatia Programme. The Government of the Republic of Croatia's 2004-2007 programme has just defined the need for changes to the strategies put forward. This report, as well as the Government of the Republic of Croatia Programme for the term of office from 2008 to 2011, no longer mentions the need to amend or adopt these strategies, and at the same time it was not done in the previous term. Therefore, it should be noted that the next report gives us a clear view of what is meant to be done in terms of strategic documents by the fact that the ministry has come from other countries' experiences to a strategic defence review. It is therefore necessary to see where the place and these strategies are and in relation to the long-term development plan and perhaps, therefore, adapt these things. The proposals for normative acts, which regulate the introduction of a voluntary military service and the adoption of the contractual reserve concept, are listed. Since these normative acts are not brought to the Parliament but by the Government or the Minister, have these acts already been adopted in this 4.5 month in 2008? Because if they are brought, what prevents them from being brought? The section on training should define the relationship to the training of the reserve component. The reserve component training has not been carried out since the end of the war. If it has been given up, it should be made clear and possible to amend the legislation. It's also an interesting question about education. For the overall assessment of the system, something was said by MP Ćosic, the report should include, let's say, how many senior officers have completed the war school and how many are currently deployed into armed forces. The report too few places dedicated the role of the Armed Forces in the protection and rescue, i.e. in cooperation with the State Protection and Rescue Authority. Armed Forces are making huge efforts every year in the field of special fire protection measures, harmonising standard operating procedures in case of disasters and major accidents, and engaging the MORH resources for the purposes of the system of protection and rescue especially during the anti-fire season. I am taking this opportunity to thank the members of the Armed Forces for all that they have contributed to the anti-fire season, especially the problem that is expressed from the part from which I come especially on the islands. As a special problem, the staff problem is set aside. Not long ago, the problem of staff was perceived as a problem of extra staff. But even then it should be acknowledged that the lack of professional staff in individual professions has not been resolved. The data we received in the table clearly shows an increased departure from the system and reduced reception into the system of highly educational personnel. Last year's report, as well as the long-term development plan, said that respected categories of military specialists and by giving special stimulation to that group of staff would solve the deficit staff problem, but I see it has not yet come to life. A particular problem is the establishment of offices and defense departments, because these are one of the burning problems. The report states that the Defence Inspectorate has been inspecting the administration and the office, and the impression is that it still does not know what to do with them. I would like to remind you, on 23 February, the deadline for the adoption of sublegal acts, which should have been adopted 6 months after the entry into force of the new legal provisions of the Defence Act, expired. The establishment of the Ministry of Defence in the largest part is defined by the Government's 2002 Regulation, with minor changes over the previous years. One of the amendments to this Regulation is the establishment of an internal audit that helps achieve the objectives of the organisation by introducing quotes: “the systematic, disciplined approach to assessing and increasing the efficiency of the risk management, control and management process.” The report of the State Audit for 2006 shows the absolute need for such a structural whole, and the results of its action will be seen in the 2007 audit report. The problem of system arrangements, real estate records, public procurement systems not only in terms of the Public Procurement Act, but also so on. Public secret acquisitions as an intelligence of structural units, the Chief of Staff and the Ministry are part of which needs to be arranged. The part relating to internal audit is quite generally written, but certainly between the lines to read that she had and has work to detect I quote: “The weakness of a particular business process.” I will touch on the end of some other views that are certainly to be discussed. Whether or not we need to build a sea base south of Peljesac. What about national restrictions when it comes to the participation of our forces in military missions? I remind you, every state has the right to declare troops for international operations itself to express certain restrictions on how these units can be used. What about the gender or gender equality that Mrs. Sobol was talking about? I remind you, the long-term development plan of the Armed Forces is projecting and 10% of the Armed Forces. There are no detailed data on the system's extraordinary events, especially those with the most severe consequences. It should be believed that the trend of reducing the number of such events that has been happening since 2001 has continued. It is not mentioned in the report of the return of the Basko polje to the Ministry of Defence system. A dubious study of the Institute for Research and Development called "Analysing the position of NGOs on the entry of the Republic of Croatia into NATO". You will admit quite ungrably sounds that the military institute also analyzes the attitudes of NGOs on a social topic. Finally, the SDP club will support the report. At the same time, we suggest to the defence minister that the 2008 report be more objective and informative at the level of those from previous years. But what's most important is that the situation in the military is better in reality, not that it's still beautiful on paper. A recent invitation to NATO membership is an irrefutable achievement of Croatia's foreign and security policy, but invitations and tomorrow's memberships are also a responsibility, including those concerning quality, clarity, consistency, justification and validity of all decisions and documents, and in particular such as the annual report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8190	Thank you. IDS representative club Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8191	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. Well, here I would like to commend, say, the openness of the Moreh by looking at this defense system preparedness report. Indeed, Croatia has nothing to hide when it comes to our Armed Forces. Yes and we will, we have nothing to hide. I remember the '95 budget there. A year. Everything cares if it's on half the card. It hasn't been 13 years, and since '95, so let's say since the end of the war we get it we have to admit a detailed report on the situation in the Armed Forces and that should be commended. I personally think maybe not in '93, '94. There was no reason to hide then from parliamentary institutions the situation in the Armed Forces, because no one in Parliament would then go against the Armed Forces and it was finally the time of war, etc. So there's something you can understand. But it was supposed to be done at some closed session of the Parliament. Unfortunately, I am afraid, not to be afraid, but I am convinced, that the policy at that time was not fit to give detailed reports because on the supply of weapons, it is free to say launder or steal money on behalf of some of the higher interests, and today from these same higher positions the money they have brought abroad is returning to the country and investing in various construction ventures. How come one Zagorec, Pasalic money to become the largest builders in the Republic of Croatia overnight? How did they earn it? So they found out the account codes that were in Austria, Liechtenstein, some other countries they filled I don't know Tudjman, Sušak, the late Minister Martinovic, and today after there are no more either, nor the other, the money clearly returns to the country. But let's let it go now. This report is correct. This report is good. First, we need to start with this military budget. The 2007 budget was 4.6 billion kuna. So below 2% of the gross social budget. The 2008 budget is planned in the amount of €5.4 billion. It's still below 2% of gross social product. Why am I saying that? No, I don't stand for a bigger military budget, though less. Croatia has other priorities, perhaps, which is more so than anyone threatens Croatia in 2008. That this is how these elections in Serbia will take place 11.5. No one, especially after the arrival of Bush, mentioned at these pre-election meetings the name of Croatia, and this says that the region is still unfortunately not stable, but it is certainly peaceful. Croatia is at the threshold of joining the European Union in 2008, at the threshold of joining NATO. And that's certainly good, but NATO will surely withdraw its commitment to greater redundancy for the military. I don't mean these $3.4 million and some quotaization of access money, but I mean the fact that the Croatian Army will have to single out two at that point, and something maybe more than 2% of the gross social product for the military. It should also be acknowledged that Croatia has never been less than in the last few years singled out for the military, and I also think it is good. We have too many other problems, too many other priorities to deal with, and indirectly, if we raise the system of one health care, the personal standard of citizens, it is clear that we are helping the military. Of these 4.6 billion kunas for 2007, the salary was 2 billion 570 million kuna, which is 59%, for the material expenditures of a billion and 700 million kuna or 39.3%, for the purposes of, say, 55.4 million kuna, etc. What I want to particularly welcome is that in 2008 or 2008, Croatia abolished the mandatory military service. That's good. I've personally stood up for this for the last five, six years. On the other hand, for example, NGOs collected signatures for a referendum in NATO and proposed parallelly, no less than the return of military obligations, because as Croatia can organise protection, defence, etc., and they were not prepared to serve a military term, etc. That's the basic reason why I didn't sign that referendum because hypocrisy is in this country a lot or too much. Professionalisation should also help the status of professional soldiers and their salaries should also be increased. It was done, if I'm not mistaken, 7 or 15 days ago, no matter what other unions that don't cover the military, they are, or they are opposed. It is a special profession and it is understandable that wages should go up, as well as good that we have changed the pension system regarding the military and surely they are in much more favourable classes today than they were before. About the generals, I won't. It's a special category. What has already been opened for two years, I guess the only one in Croatia is that our soldiers are withdrawn from Afghanistan, it's one missed mission, it's a lost, in advance lost mission, and I'm afraid that sooner or later, no matter what they all go there, someone goes back in the coffin. We in the army today count 17,000 470 military personnel, plus 5,000 180 civil servants and subsistence officers in the Moreh. It's a total of 22 thousand 650 people. It's still too much, the system would work with 18 thousand people, it's going to happen, but we're going to have to send about a thousand 200 soldiers to the peace missions tomorrow according to this report. Today, outside the borders of Croatia we have 200 soldiers in Afghanistan, plus in all missions of 46 other soldiers, by the end of the year another 100 soldiers go to Afghanistan, plus 100 soldiers in Golan, or to Golan. It is likely to open another crisis hotspot and Croatia will have about 500 people outside its borders at the end of 2008 and that costs, which is a terrible cost. It is clear that we must pay back the debt to, say, UNPROFOR, one word to the international community because the world on the territory of Croatia when the war was at one point even had 12,000 soldiers, or observers, but I don't think Croatia should participate in the pre-lost missions. On page 35 there is talk of the sale of arms and military equipment under the means "Alan", it literally says here: "The choice of the most favourable bidder for the delivery of combat armored vehicles has been made, and a contract has been concluded with the Finnish company "Patria" and the company "Đuro Đaković" special vehicles from Slavonski Brod as the holder of the final integration. This will equip the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia with 84 combat armored vehicles, infantry, 8 times 8 configuration." That's, that's a finished quote. Croatia is moving faster towards changing some types of weapons and everything that is not perspective, should also be resolved and the money invested in the purchase of new weapons. What's the point for me is, too, that engagement with "Patria" that's spoken right here on page 35. So it is an off-set program and Croatia must, too, if we want to be a serious nation, step back into the production of weapons. We have a tradition, a question of whether we still have systems, and if that weaponry is to be reworked with the countries of our neighbourhood or the area of ex Yugoslavia, it doesn't matter what we call it. No one's threatening us, we're just maybe a little small, so we can't do it ourselves, and together maybe we can do something. I do not advocate any new Yugoslavia, but that companies connect and that joint offers this product to someone third, higher than the country's material base as a whole. Whether it's a tank M84, whether it's armored vehicles. Before, for example, 30 years ex Yugoslavia worked tanks, and now no country in the former state can make a single armored transport. We're working with the Finns who were in the 1970s, when it comes to war technology, 30 years behind Yugoslavia, and today they're 30 years ahead of Croatia and every other country in this space. I argue that in this area the economy can also be connected. In this context it is certainly well mentioned and the return of unspective military, all that is in the city center, of a city, it should be given to the city without compensation, we are too poor, never again the army will play that role in these areas, as it had, in the early 1990s for the Homeland War, or as it was during the SFRY or Austro-Hungarian in Istria, etc. On page 12, it is literally said that the Croatian Land Army, meaning the removal of the hull structure, reduces the number of Guard brigades from 4 to 2, is being formed by one breeding unit of the level of the regiment, and the reorganization of forces within the training and doctrine command. The Croatian Navy reorganises the entire structure adapted to new tasks and available means including adaptations for the establishment of coast guard and the reorganisation of the logistic and supporting part of the Croatian Air Force and anti-aircraft defence structure, and the organisation from four to two aircraft bases, and the adaptation of the support part of the structure of the command company intended to support the operation of HRZ command and training centre, etc. etc. Here is around today the Croatian Army. We don't really need it anymore, but we need professionals, we need good technique, we need a clear technique that's going to come through that "offset" program. What else do you say about this defense system? Even though the Croatian Army has crumbs compared to the 90s or what it had before 90s, I don't know what the SFRY had, it still stands out 1.7 billion kuna for material assets, or it's about 250 million euros. In due course, the 250m euros will certainly turn into 400,500m euros. We need surveillance so we don't get any new Zagori amongst other things. I claim as I said these people aren't even as much as they're being told today, but they found out at some point the codes that were stored by those who were able to take that money out or transfer it to those accounts. Second, the secret services in this report say something about these military ones, but as we must control them, so the weapons system should be monitored. Clearly all decisions are made here in the 1990s when it comes to the military, are happening, or are being made at the top of the government, etc. etc. For the end, if the time is up. I think this report is brave, honest, correct, giving answers to a whole series of questions and it is freely said that the Croatian Army today is an army of a democratic state and, in the right sense of that definition today, nothing can really surprise us anymore. Finally, the less we talk about the military, the more we talk about tourism, health care, exporting it will be a country that is more stable, more developed, more democratic, and thus the opportunities of those who are in the military and will be better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8192	Thank you. A few corrections of incorrect allegations. Mr. Representative Andrew Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8193	Thank you very much. I can't help but correct the inaccuracies of fellow Caine, who has been repeated several times. In the context of the 1990s report, he said, the government at the time was not in the interest of giving a detailed report because they were stealing, so he mentioned in the same sentence by General Zagorec and War Minister Susak. It's inadmissible and untrue. General Zagorac increased his assets by several dozen million euros during the war and whatnot, and Mr. Sušak did not increase his assets during the war by any June. A second incorrect quote. Those who had codes and transferred money said they took advantage. That's not true. It was an embargo, money had to be outside because Croatia couldn't pay for illegal goods called weapons and if it hadn't been for those bills, Mr. Cain, you wouldn't be talking in the Croatian Parliament today, but in some other one.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8194	The second correction, Mr. Representative Krešimir Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8195	Here's Mr. President a little correction to Mr. Cain's incorrect quote: "We have a tradition of the production of weapons of military equipment." That's not true. Tradition has been created for decades. In the former state, 43% of the military industry was in Serbia, 42% in Bosnia and Herzegovina, projecting the development of the Belgrade Military Technical Institute. But I agree with that other part of your claim, industry, weapons and military equipment is important but managing this industry, creating new values, creating complex systems is something that is challenging and necessary to know, but it can increase the competitiveness of the Croatian economy and Croatian exports.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8196	And Mr. Agent Ivan Hanzek.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8197	And for purely regional reasons, I'm correcting Mr. Cain. I can understand that he mentions the gentleman in context, but let him emphasize the name of the gentleman with the prefix, not to say that we don't have a new "Zagorci." I don't think the Zagorians have done anything wrong in this country and it wouldn't be bad for them to show up.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8198	What is it? HNS Club, Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8199	Thank you very much. Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I also have to stand in defense of us Zagorci and I think that the things that are said about Zagorec with prefix have nothing to do with the Zagorci. And the same was a good question in these answers, and that's where the money is. It's an eternal question, and we'll probably get an answer someday. But let's get back to the report. First, we would like to stress that this annual report on the preparedness of the defence system, the implementation of the Staff Policy and the overall state of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia with the State of Defence Preparations report in the Republic of Croatia presents a whole range of data and information that gives relative insight into the overall state of the Armed Forces and the state of defence preparations in the Republic of Croatia and does not, unfortunately, provide answers to the whole series in any case, for the better functioning of the Armed Forces of Key Issues. So, in principle, we support the adoption of this year's report, but there are a few things we want to respond to. This refers first of all to a part of the report on personal support, the promoter points out that there is room for improving satisfaction, accommodation and clothing and footwear and wages and that the announced change in the formation of the Armed Forces does not raise dissatisfaction and concern over the implementation of the establishment. I don't think this House is that important to clothes and shoes, but when it comes to wages, we want an explanation in what sense there is satisfaction with the salaries, because according to the announcement of the defence minister himself recently presented in the media, there is a dissatisfaction with the salaries in the Armed Forces and a certain increase in these salaries has been announced. We think that the overall staff policy on this issue should lead to maximum care, so we are also looking for clarification as far as possible and what possible future expectations of armed forces employees are. Secondly, we know that since 1 January 2008, money has no longer been called to compulsory military service or civil service obligations. However, there is a possibility of voluntary service, so we are interested in the stage of preparation for the reception of such people, who will want to take advantage of this possibility of volunteering and whether the conditions for their training and even stay at that voluntary service have been created. Third, it is clear that this year the defence and armed forces system will have to look into the light of the invitation that the Republic of Croatia received to join NATO in Bucharest in April this year. We are therefore interested in how much the Republic of Croatia and the Armed Forces are prepared, as part of human resources, to carry out training preparations for work in NATO bodies because such work must require special preparations and special training. The Croatian People's Party also supports the conclusions of the Committee on Gender Equality, which the Committee requests to review training programmes for members and members of security services from the perspective of gender and women's rights, and to ensure greater representation of women in the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces, with particular emphasis on greater representation in management positions. During the debate on this report, a number of questions were raised by the representatives of the clubs, especially by the clubs of party representatives who formed the government and who are looking for a whole series of answers. We believe that this fact also speaks of relative insight into the state of the Armed Forces which can be read from this report, and consequently the efficiency of both the Ministry of Resolution and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So we have a whole series of questions to which we want answers from the rapporteurs of this report and the Croatian People's Party will support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8200	Thank you. At 10.56, it was time to report a ten-minute debate. Second, the 7th session of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget will be held today, 8 May at 13:00 in room 244, second floor, in the Committee President Goran Marić's rooms. Now we're going to an individual debate. Mr. Representative Josip Djakić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8201	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here, the Annual Report on the preparedness of the defence system and the state of the defence forces of the Republic of Croatia certainly speaks transparently about the great improvements that have been made, about what has been adopted, from legal solutions and so on about the filling, and about material and human resources in the defence system of the Republic of Croatia. Since the amendments and additions of the Defence Act and the Service Act in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, which have enabled further reforms and proposals and adjustments of the defence system. The adjustments and transformations of the defence system that goes towards transforming and equating with the countries with NATO standards are certainly necessary and necessary, and everything that has been done through exercises, through documents, through regulations, through the Long-term Development Plan of the Armed Forces, as well as annual plans to be implemented. Surely, it must be said that the overall state of the Armed Forces is quite enough, given that there is no possibility and the likelihood of conventional threats is low, while at the same time the risk of only international terrorism is increased, and it is the threat that is certainly the greatest in the present moments. And international terrorism, as well as urbanised crime, also at certain times when it is overgrown and when police cannot meet their forces in preventing them, a military component must certainly be involved. Given everything that has been done and presented through this report, it can be clearly seen through all segments that it covered, although in a smaller text area than before, as could be heard in the Croatian Parliament, but it said transparently about all the details relevant in the units and in the complete Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. It is apparent that during 2007, sufficient financial resources have been provided to implement the TMS preventive association plan and thus the state of technical and material resources in the Croatian Army troops' troops have been raised to a higher level. It's clearly said in what percentage. Although I feel that, individually, as much as anything and how it is not really necessary to bring it out in public, but in percentages, that's good enough and said. It's been reported many times that it's not comprehensive, a colleague who's both on the board and here today who's come forward, not to talk about everything. Well, thank God we can't talk about all the achievements, all the plans and all the projects, all those shades that happen in the Armed Forces, because we think there are those moments that are military secrets and that should never, except in the Armed Forces, be brought out in Croatia or the public that monitors the work of the Croatian Parliament. Surely some things, some things, can never be taken away from secrecy or made available to everyone. Thus, the report should not write the exact number of armored, armored-mechanised and other vehicles that are in operation, which are not, how many aircraft are in operation and how many are not. It's, I mean, actually certain secrets that shouldn't be brought forward, but in percentages, it's clearly said that it's actually quite enough by the regularity and sustainability of both aircraft and helicopters and ships and means of transport, and it meets the needs and knowledge that we're interested in. We believe that we do not need to personally check the regularity of our MiGs and drive them, because it would require that each of us MPs may be driving our skies and see if our MiGs are correct or whether the pilots are well-trained. What is mentioned next is that through these changes and complements, Croatian armed forces are involved through these exercises, through engagement in Afghanistan, which was 2007. 147 of our soldiers engaged who grew to 200. At the same time, diplomatic staff, civil police, and a mixed Croatian-Albanian medical team were hired. The UN peacekeeping operations have increased their contribution, currently involving 46 members of the Armed Forces deployed in thirteen operations, including thirty-one military observers and fifteen staff officers. In view of the overall Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, significant changes in the organisational structure have been achieved and 51% of the armed forces have been restructured. Through this reshuffle, the departure of those who have served their services and who are ready for retirement, who are not perspective. 807 active military personnel are newly admitted with high and higher education and middle education. It is also evident that a thousand 357 active military personnel have left the defence systems as well as 604 officials and subsistences, which is the continuation of systematic rejuvenation and improvement and education structures. We would also like to stress that this is also aimed at improving the educational structure of our armed forces, but also at reducing the number and professionalisation of the Croatian military to put out of service. And what I would like to say this time is that perhaps in this Croatian House we should decide how to stimulate those who willingly serve the Croatian Army, how to enable them to or those who did not do so in the past due to the objection of conscience, how to stimulate men, but also women who wish to serve voluntarily in the Croatian Army and I think that the only and best way would be to have a priority in employment in all state services. In fact, I think that in the state services of the Republic of Croatia we should not and should not work those who are not willing to defend Croatia because of their objection to their conscience. Thus, through all these shades, it may be necessary to initiate the possibility of voluntary military service being stimulated. We see that during 2007, some projects that can be said to be public have been intensified, which is the equipment and modernisation of which is the most significant contract for the development of a domestic assault rifle "Canila P 56 mm". Part of the surplus arms and military equipment was sold on the world market through the intervention of the agency "Alan", part donated to the Afghan People's Army, contracted to deliver fighting armored vehicles "BOV" with the Finnish company "Patria" and the Croatian company "Đuro Đaković" special vehicles as well as the bearer of final integrations. Special equipment has been obtained to detect and deactivate explosives, and thus in a series of these improvements and these activities that will certainly be achieved in this year and we will see this in the next report to contribute to the technological progress of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia which will cause and will enable the reduction of the number of soldiers, professionality, their improvement and all that is necessary. In addition to all that is listed there is no forgotten what also the Croatian Army in the majority for all those who are in the Croatian Army who want to have their right and fundamental freedom of religion. It's also... The Ministry of Defence extends and extends itself to those who want it and who want even in their old age to adjust and work on their spiritual restoration. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Along with all 26 military chaplains and dioceses, regular lessons are being given to bringing adults into Christendom. Also armed forces and police have been actively participating for 15 years in the international military pilgrimage in Lourdes as well as in the pilgrimage to Marija Bistrica. In the pilgrimage to Lourdes, as we know, the Croatian Army is always recognizable, it is always the one that causes a tumultuous applause when it appears on the stage between the 28 countries of the world, it certainly leaves the best and the most beautiful impression and it is the honor and respect we can experience in these military pilgrimages. Just as we have experienced that we are the victorious Croatian Army and the further development of the armed forces surely requires that we be one of the better equipped and perspective armies of Western Europe as well as the NATO Alliance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8202	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zivko Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8203	Dear Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Parliament is achieving its democratic role as a control over the armed forces, which I truly consider to be a major achievement in the development of democracy and civilian surveillance. The defence system should be adapted to a potential threat based on comprehensive and overall events, information and judgments on possible events. Indeed, at this point, the likelihood of conventional threats and threats is low, but at the same time there is an increasing risk of international terrorism and international organised crime, and it should be adapted never to think that wars will be anymore, and that is why time is constantly of course. The Republic of Croatia is located in an environment that is not politically stable and I would say there are no political processes that should be a prerequisite for this stabilisation. Geostrategically, too, many find us interesting. Therefore, we need additional caution and military and political readiness. From all the documents and events so far, it is evident that we are really adapting our defence system to new times and new requirements. Well, the NATO Accession Pact itself is a confirmation of that. And our contribution to UN peace operations has been increased to strengthen international peace and stability in the world. Participation in NATO's exercises in the country and abroad is not only for military operations but also for helping civil institutions and the population as well as in the case of God's natural or environmental disasters or disasters. This does not forget the protection of the environment and the management of military waste that we see in this report. We also see that last year alone, the Croatian Air Force for emergency medical transport has achieved a thousand 78 flights on which 392 patients and 545 escorts were transported. Many have saved lives, and this is a special case in my County of Split-Dalmatia and islands, so I point out that, and I thank you for that. We have shown, and we show this every day in the peace missions of the peace world that we have the people ready. We should therefore also support the process of material technical equipment and modernisation, of course not only in accordance with the needs but also with the possibilities. I see from the report that during last year, great attention is given to days and permanent, additional and new learning within the system, additional education, both for persons employed, military persons and for civil servants within the system. And the military civilian training of officers' candidates, for the purposes of combat storks, and families of combat support actually, future career officers. As a result, we have increasingly signed military cooperation agreements with other countries and more accredited military envoys in 36 countries, as well as those countries accredit their military envoys in the Republic of Croatia. In a purely military part of the report, I'm not and I'm not, and I'm not very good at it, but this civil war and political reflection gives me confirmation that the military component is on the right track. And that's why I welcome and support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8204	Mr. Representative Ante Kotromanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8205	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, fellow MPs. Here's, unlike your colleagues who said things a little bit wider, I'll talk more, I'll talk more about these real, military issues and more like soldiers. The Annual Report on the preparedness of the defence system, the implementation of the human resources policy and the overall state in the armed forces with the State of Defence Preparations report in the Republic of Croatia is a specific report that must give us an answer whether the Croatian Army is ready or not. Personally, I think she is ready, but a lot of work still needs to be done on further formation and development of the Croatian Army. I'd split this annual report into two parts. First, it's the Ministry of Defence's work, which is reflected through several important factors. The first is, it is a conceptual and legal arrangement of the defence system, which is reflected through the long-term strategy of the development and equipment of the Croatian Army, the national security strategy and the defence plan, and this is done and I am glad to do and it is ongoing. Furthermore, it is democratic and civilian surveillance of the armed forces which is also being done and which I would also welcome. It is also working on transparent, it should work on the transparent work of the MOTH logistics system, on strategic... Croatian armies with a focus and priority on equipping the Land Army as a strike force, which is desirable and what should be done in the Sea. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would personally highlight what has been done this year, at the beginning of this year, which is finally an increase in budgets and pay increases, military wages. Just that fellow MPs, only to know that the military salary of a guard in the Croatian Army is about 3500-3600 kuna and that it was necessary to increase for soldiers and lower officers of pay and that is one good thing that has now started, on the other hand absolutely we must continue to work further on this segment. Secondly, as I was looking at this report, it is more through the work of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, and for them it is vitally important, I say how combat-ready they are to carry out their tasks. Reading this year's defense system preparedness report somehow always makes me think towards the main headquarters and those things they're responsible for and which should be much clearer and better than the report says. Mr. Minister, I have had this certain experience in the war, I have been on these duties in the Croatian Army, so I will be free to suggest certain things that seem important to me, which concern the lives and work of members of the Croatian Army and which could contribute to a better and better development of the armed forces. What makes one army strong, strong, capable, ultimately ready for all forms of war is the command chamber, it's combat realistic training on the ground, it's modern technology and logistics support to the troops. We're missing a little bit of everything today. For objective reasons, because we do not have enough resources to solve all the technological shortages of the Croatian Army in one fast cycle and for subjective reasons, and then I primarily think about us more honorable men who have led the Croatian Army and who have been flocking for years, what my colleague Ćosic says, we are constantly doing some reconstructions, to find the best solution for the Croatian Army. Personally, I'm not happy with this outfit now. We have a command today... HSZ, ground armies... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It avoids, it is now done, we have a joint headquarters, we have a Joint Chief of Staff of Ones, and that is, but again this structure is much better than the one two years ago, so I believe that, in due course, we will again pursue these better and better standards that NATO prescribes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With the money that's the most important thing for an army to function, it seems to me that we need to put a serious priority into dealing with people. It is crucial to motivate people to stay and join the Croatian military. There are known problems with personnel in the Croatian Army, we know that old people, those who are experienced officers, go outside and they are already tired and want to get away with it, and I have problems bringing in younger people who may be interested in the Croatian Army. I think we need to make the most of this... problems and enable people to have the opportunity to get an apartment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We must continue to work on this salary increase safely, this is good, but this is what we want standard, what people in the Croatian Army want too little. And what is very important to me, and that is to ensure the second career of officers when they leave the Croatian Army, when they sign one contract professional, two contracts, or when they retire. Unfortunately, we had one negative tendency that officers experienced in the war, who ordered thousands of people, who had passed, who had great experience with people, were simply rejected and marginalized in one way. I think we should use these people to give them another career. That they're exploitable in the segment, that person who ran a 2500-man brigade could probably run some kind of company of 20, 30 people. I think we should use them anyway. And it should, in that sense, be seen how and how to organise it and implement it in the future. Another problem with me, it's military education. We have a project "cadet" I don't think anyone's happy, not the students or the people who organized it. Because in the end, we don't get a guard brigade officer. For example, we have professional troops of the Guard brigade looking for an experienced officer as we enter. We're training officers... What we noticed, we've already heard in the previous debate, but we have problems that end... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the Fourth Guard Brigade there were several officers who came, who began to work and were full of motives, but in a short period they simply went out and went from the Croatian Army which was very difficult to adapt, you know when someone came from America from the West... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] in our Croatian army, which is technological and still far behind. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think we should do something for me and I suggest our one academy, I think we need to break those prejudices, taboo themes, some former officers, I don't know what we're up to, we need to form our own miniature... An academy that will be trained exclusively by relatives, pedestrians, armory, means people that we, that profession, are definitely missing, there are deficits. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I think we should think about doing something in that context in the next period. The report itself often discusses education and training of members of the Croatian Army, and how they were successfully prepared for peace-keeping missions in Afghanistan. It is true and of course that absolute attention should be given to training, preparing and equipping people in the space of war. But it seems to me that inside the Armed Forces there is not enough attention to common training of visions and genders. We had a great exercise last year, but we need to practice together, that Kresso knows well, my fellow Navy, it's called in the military coordinated action. All eyesights, all military work must not be done partial training. For example, in the 4th Guard Brigade, we train our ex, prepare people just for those who go up to Afghanistan. We need to prepare a complete brigade in battle stations, so that they can respond at any moment not to the task outside, but to any task set before it, especially if it's some kind of war danger. So the entire task force needs to go through some realistic training. It is called in the army training on tape – lots of shootings, racing, smoke, all that helps the soldier to become safe and firm in himself. In the report, I noticed a conversation with some officers when we commented on the annual report, a few things that could be much better and better-qualityd, and now they're like this. We've formed the Coast Guard and you see we've got some problems now. We haven't defined the power or the means yet, and the law isn't defined. Here's just an example. For example, Norwegians, they rent their ships. They rent and pay rent somewhere over 40 ships. They didn't buy any ships. There are several modules that should have been considered how, how to put this Coast Guard into operation as soon as possible. And when I talk about the law, that's what I told the minister yesterday, he's undefined. You really need to comb it and work on it. Here's an example of one. Article 2 states: “The Coast Guard ship is marked by the official mark of the Coast Guard.” When a public ship is said then, it is thought to be a merchant ship, which is commercial and is not a warship. Just the article behind, Article 3 says: “The Coast Guard is an integral part of the Croatian Navy.” That means that all ships must be warships. The Navy can't have a non-combat ship and it's not some practice. I think that the Coast Guard would be all over me, and the practice is that I have studied a lot in the world that in peace it is separated from the Croatian Navy, in peace it is reserved and dressed, best dressed reserve of the Navy in the war, and that during the course of the war it is integrated into the Croatian Navy system, of course under here I will say by military command both by the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic of Croatia. Also, we need to put special attention on UBS. It's a murder weapon or ammunition that's very old and had problems with these unconditional warehouses. I think that's it, I saw in the report that there was a lot going on. It would be good and certainly to pay that attention, especially now before the great heat. It wouldn't be good if it happened again I didn't know Long Village or this warehouse in Albania. And as commander of the 4th Guard Brigade and who I've visited these warehouses, I think you should always pay special attention because we have the resources that are as old as I am. For example, anti-aircraft funds are about 40 years old, and in our use are still today. We also need to pay attention to voluntary military service and contractual provisions. I absolutely support the question of the military deadline, and that's fine. We just have to make sure we attract as many people within the system as possible. I agree with my colleague Djakic, we must take encouraging measures, allow people to have something when they serve a voluntary military deadline or are under a contractual reservation or whether it is employment, whether it is later entering a professional unit. I don't know, but I think there's something I need to do to get these people involved, to make sure there's as many of them as possible. Because we have a problem with the guards, with keeping a lot of maintenance, etc. Here, a few more words. [[Intruder: Please conclude!]] In my opinion, what needs to be done as soon as possible. In operational use as soon as possible to introduce a assault rifle, introduce armored vehicles. We need to bring in and... firearms 155 mm, finish... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] and possible sales. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As soon as possible, we can secure a large-range transport aircraft so that they can transfer their forces on their own and extract in the event of a crisis. As soon as the Guard brigade commanders get helicopters to communicate, because they're now, so they can do training...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8206	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8207	And finally here's another one. I don't accept this report. The Croatian Army needs support and the Croatian Army needs small, well... Just because we're at NATO's door doesn't mean anything. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We need Croatia because of various possible... The threat, the blow, because of the ever-trust Balkans, due to natural disasters, floods, fires and needs. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Croatian army will always react first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8208	Thank you. Vice-President of the House Željka Antunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8209	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary. I will, as it is said in the presentation on behalf of the SDP Club, support this report, because I believe it contains all the essential elements that should contain one such report. However, let me make some of my remarks in this debate, because I think this report would serve the purpose, in order to give full information to representatives in the Croatian Parliament who need to make some other decisions based on it and facilitate the Armed Forces and the Ministry of Defence to develop I think that it should be improved and modified to some extent. My point is that in some parts, not in all, but in some parts this report is quite general. We simply lack some quantifications to make the report clear and that we may have the right information about what it is. I'll give maybe two simple examples to make it easier for them to understand. In one place, for example, the process of forming a rapid response force was launched during 2007. However, we need information as far as the process has come, which should still be done to end it and when it will be completed. That's the kind of information we might need to get a budget for next year. It's information that, for various reasons, is more important to be more complete, that Parliamentarians know something more about it. Another example, for example, says the logistics sustainability of the unit has largely been achieved. To what extent has it been reached? What else is missing? What can be done to speed up this process? Maybe everything is fine, and perhaps more support is needed by the Croatian Parliament. This report is the first report to be submitted in the Croatian Parliament under completely changed circumstances when we talk about defence or defence strategy and security strategy, namely Croatia received an invitation to NATO. And that is why I will stress that I think it is important that this report contains other than defence preparations and certain parts that talk about preparations for NATO's leadership operations. We're going to need more and more preparations like that. What I still want to look back on by saying about this report is a matter of human resources. There's something in the report that I think is important, and as a plan, it's not fulfilled, and that's the promotion plan. The promotion plan is partially fulfilled, to some extent not, there is no answer why. No, it doesn't stand why it didn't happen, and promotions, when we talk about the motivation of human resources in the military, are extremely important and can be useful to raise that motivation. I also want to say something about what is called personal support to people, or human resources. These include wages, fees, different incentives. I, like some, will mention the problem of housing. It is positive that the report says that different housing models have been considered and introduced. However, it seems to me that it is actually a sentence covering a big and real and serious problem in the Armed Forces. To obtain quality personnel in the Armed Forces, one of the key incentives is housing. We all know that for many years in the area of Armed Forces, there are serious problems and one sentence that says different models have been introduced, or that different models have been planned, for me as a representative who cares about solving this problem, means absolutely nothing. I'm afraid, I say, I'm going to repeat once again that this sentence only covers one serious problem that causes quite a bit of dissatisfaction in the Armed Forces, or within the army. Military training, something is said about it, and from what it says here, and from what it doesn't say, and what it's known to be better quality. It should be more quality than, or perhaps more extensive than cadets, compared to those who are civilised for an army of needy occupations, but which mine also acquires enough military training to be able to perform the duties of officers and high-ranking officers within the Armed Forces. There is no record in the report of which, for which civil institutions are going, those which are being sent by the military, or which from the order of soldiers are being sent to civil education. He knows from experience that this has often been education not in accordance with the needs of the Armed Forces, but in choosing those sent to school. I think it should be written more closely, even though the practice is still such that it needs to be changed. As for the management of material resources, I'd just like to mention two things. The first refers to equipment with weapons and military equipment and to say that this report, which should be discussed about the readiness and condition of the Armed Forces, is, for example, insufficiently speaking. about why Croatia decided to develop its own assault rifle. That's the information we need to know. I think we need to know more and hopefully, we talked about this on the Defence Committee, that we will also get the necessary and necessary information about large procurements, strategic procurements, which this report does not say enough about. I'll also mention the question of one object, which is the South Marine base. In the long-term development plan of the Armed Forces, however, one such base is planned, but don't mind this word, but tampering around it with the public, and even from the Armed Forces round has caused quite a number of citizens' animosities in the area, and I fear that due to such access to the base, the Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces will also have a lot of problems, which means that in some ways the implementation of the long-term development plan of the Armed Forces will be compromised. I think you need to change your approach when you're going into some kind of procedure. There's something I'd like to say about the military's secret and the contents of this report. There were two different attitudes here, one that there wasn't, that nothing was military secret, that nothing was closed, and the other was that this report didn't have to contain any information that represented military secrets. I think there is, and one and another attitude is wrong for me and there is one confusion. There is a military secret, but there is no military secret for the Croatian Parliament which is a body, which you must have all this information. The military secret applies exactly, and by my deep conviction, the most important thing should be to protect the military secret of what's open here, which is the willingness of the defense system. Because a military secret is an institute that protects our defense system because we are developing it and we need to protect it from those who are potential carriers of those dangers that cause us to even develop the defense system. They're certainly not parliamentary agents. Therefore, parliamentarians, in the interest of strengthening the defence and security system, in the interest of strengthening and developing the Armed Forces and the Ministry of Defence that unites all this and organises, should have full and complete information and it is known that discussions are being conducted in such cases. They must be protected from public withdrawal, but when we talk about a report like this, there should be nothing that represents a military secret. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8210	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dino Kozlevac. He's gone. He's losing his word. Mr. Agent Ivan Shantek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8211	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. We have an annual report on the preparedness of the defence system, the implementation of staff policy and the overall state in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, together with reports on the state of defence preparations in the Republic of Croatia for 2007. We know that the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia have fundamental missions to protect the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, the defence of the Republic of Croatia and the allies, to participate in crisis operations abroad, to participate in measures to build security and trust, and to assist civil institutions in the country. As my colleagues have said so far, the likelihood of a conventional attack on the Republic of Croatia is very low, and the structure and dimensioning of the Armed Forces, apart from the basic mission of protecting the sovereignty and defence of the Republic of Croatia, will be affected by all other missions. About a month ago, we also received an official invitation to NATO, and that very part of the adjustment of the Armed Forces for membership to that organisation was the part I was most interested in in this report. The report shows that an analysis and adaptation of legislation governing issues of interest for the defence of the Republic of Croatia was continued in 2007. The amendment has been implemented through the adoption of appropriate amendments and the addition of laws and regulations to sublaws, as well as the creation of new laws and sublaws. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on Defence, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Service of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the Law on the Coast Guard of the Republic of Croatia have been adopted. The process of reducing the number of staff, re-use and rationalisation of military infrastructure management has been continued. The fifth cycle of NATO's membership action plan was realized and the sixth cycle started. Two evaluations of progress have been made in collaboration with NATO representatives in May and November 2007. According to the results of these assessments, the Republic of Croatia has achieved significant shifts in the fight against defence reforms, the convergence of the standards of the alliance and the development of defence capabilities. Support and current participation in the international community's efforts to strengthen international peace and stability as a permanent commitment to Croatia's security and defence policy have been continued. The UN's peacekeeping operations currently have 46 members of the Armed Forces deployed in 13 peacekeeping missions, 31 of them military observers and 15 staff officers. During 2007, the number of members of the Armed Forces in the ISAF Peace Mission in Afghanistan increased from 147 to 200. In 2007, training focused on reaching interoperability with NATO, achieving and maintaining the readiness of individuals and units declared for NATO to conduct operations and exercises, and on developing the capacity to assist civilian institutions and populations in the event of natural or environmental accidents or disasters. Training and the ability to assist civil institutions has been demonstrated to engage the Armed Forces in fire and anti-indulgence activities. The participation of dedicated organised forces, armed forces to assist civil institutions during the 2007 fire-fighting season took place within the planned scope. The most extensive equipment and modernisation processes were launched, a contract was concluded on the development of a domestic assault rifle, the selection of the most favourable bidder for the delivery of combat armored vehicles, and a contract of procurement involving the offset programme was concluded, ensuring the transfer of technology to domestic military equipment manufacturers, and the Armed Forces would be equipped with modern combat armored vehicles. New school aircraft have been introduced into operational use, transport helicopters from the clearing debt have started and new fire-fighting aircraft have been contracted. Modernized transport planes and began the prototype modernisation of the tank. Radars were installed on Učka and Pelješac within the project of the NEBO radar system. Equipment was obtained for the needs of the Navy systems and new artillery was installed on the missile cannon. A staff procurement programme has been successfully implemented, achieving measurable results by the reception of 807 personnel, which significantly improves the educational and age structure of staff. A successful programme has been implemented to allocate and provide staff – 1961 persons have left the defence system, which is a continuation of systematic rejuvenation and improvement of the educational and age structure of staff while at the same time full social care and various transition and care programmes. The re-purpose of 15 different military locations has been implemented and development plans have been developed for part of perspective military and polygons. What is particularly important for us from Sisak-Moslavina County is that a list of military properties for which a surrender procedure has been initiated to the Central State Office for State Property Management is located in Sisak-Moslavina County of the next military location. This is the military Zažina place of Sisak, the military... The gunpowder warehouse in Sisak and the space editing facility... [[You don't understand.]] The beam near Sisko. [[You don't understand.]] It's final. Armed forces of the Republic of Croatia, the entire defence system passes a period of full transformation and construction of new abilities. The activities that represent meeting the criteria for achieving interoperability with NATO defence systems are being carried out intensively. In addition to all transformation processes and challenges, the Armed Forces and the entire defence system successfully carry out all the tasks prescribed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, laws and strategic documents. From now on, it is evident that this is a transparent, realistic and comprehensive report and I will therefore support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8212	Thank you. Mr. Representative Tomislav Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8213	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Croatia is today conducting full-fledged NATO membership negotiations and is at a social and economic turning point that will bring new opportunities and new challenges for the Republic of Croatia, its defence system and especially for its Armed Forces. The general starting points of this year's report are openness and transparency in implementing all defence reforms and the overall situation in the Armed Forces. With this report, the defence system and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia have shown that they are in a mature phase on their way to NATO and the advanced phase of the implementation process and the completion of the numerous reforms necessary for membership. Based on a series of successful reform results of a proven alliance in the difficult field of Afghanistan and commitment to NATO's core values and the adoption of the 2007 budget that was in line with the long-term development plan, the credibility and true political will to implement defence reforms has been demonstrated and the modernisation and equipment of our defence system has been enabled. In this way, Croatia has witnessed clearly the maturity that is qualified to be an even stronger force in the near future, which will soon continue as a full member to assist countries from its neighbourhood in adopting the standards of modern Western democracy and modern armed forces. The annual report shows the results of the reform and the main achievements of the Armed Forces, progress and adoption of a higher degree of interoperability between the Croatian Armed Forces and NATO. All this progress with the Armed Forces is of paramount importance primarily for Croatia itself, for the better life of its citizens in a modern society based on knowledge open to new ideas, investments and inclusion in global trends. During the past period, a large number of activities have been successfully carried out in the Armed Forces despite insufficient availability of material and human resources, while at the same time increasing the total number of tasks and requirements. It is necessary to bear in mind that all of this has been carried out throughout the comprehensive reconstruction of the Armed Forces and with a view to reducing the number size of the active military personnel visible from Chapter 2 — The status of the defence system. So significant activity in the past year was among other things the preparation and implementation of the reconstruction of the troops, command and the institution of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. Compared to the condition of 1. 1. In 2007, the number of personnel in the Armed Forces dropped by 901 people at the beginning of the year. The reduction in the number of employees is the result of the simultaneous implementation of the process of detachment and admission of active military personnel, as well as of civil servants and subsistence during 2007. With the rejuvenation of staff, one of the most important objectives of reforms in the personal functional area is to improve the educational structure of staff in the Armed Forces through education, reception and staffing. By transforming to new military capabilities in the Armed Forces needed for the 21st century, an extremely complex issue is being raised as a consequence of new changes in the domain of military affairs and maintaining the readiness of the defence system. As shown in chapters two, three "Preparation of the Defence System" which also maintained a high level of readiness for troops during 2007, but also actively participated in helping civilian institutions in the country, participating in fire, anti-float activities, air transport of life-threatening patients, logistics and other support. Lineup of the Coast Guard within the Croatian Navy will provide the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia with a new institutional form of task implementation. In addition, building and developing military capabilities, after an invitation to NATO, is impossible without properly balanced staff price ratios, infrastructure, equipment, maintenance and costs in peace operations. The findings in the annual report represent a bridge in a kind of process in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia that are faced with the fact that the transformation of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia is imminent. It would be wrong to find that the Armed Forces do not possess military capacity. It would be more accurate to say that the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia have respectable capabilities, but that they are faced with insufficient equipment for future likely tasks, challenges and demands ahead of NATO accession to the Armed Forces. The transitional period and the difficulties identified are listed in this report, but they are set before those who need to present a transformation in that direction as outlined in the Long-term Development Plan of the Armed Forces. The armed forces are now in the transformation phase of being ready to participate in international crisis response operations and defence of the territory of NATO members. Therefore, it is evident that even before the armed forces themselves are engaged, they will have to strengthen their current capabilities in a part that supports international activities. An important element in co-operation under Chapter 3 - Defence management is the planning and resolution process within which Croatia and NATO have defined and achieved the partnership objectives that have represented a kind of capacity inventory that Croatia as a partner will develop and make available for common needs until full compatibility with the status of NATO alliance member, where Croatia declared participation in NATO-led peacekeeping and humanitarian missions. Chapter 6 sets out a review of the implementation of the Long-term Development Plan of the Armed Forces. It is evident that due to limited financial resources, all units will not be able to be equipped with the latest technology and other achievements of modern technology. However, in line with the long-term development plans, the modernisation of the existing and the acquisition of new modern weapons systems that give the Armed Forces the capacity to carry out activities under difficult climate conditions and the ability to operate under night conditions of reduced visibility, thus increasing the ability to effectively engage forces in international activities. During 2007, changes in the organisational structure, equipment and training of units and command were made. Significant activities of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia were participation in UN peacekeeping operations, international military operations, assistance to civilian institutions, as well as planning military exercises and international exercises as part of international military cooperation. Armed forces of the Republic of Croatia through the implementation of the Long-term Development Plan of the Armed Forces project develop targeted operational capabilities for the implementation of assigned missions and tasks. By reviewing the year-round report during 2007, the Armed Forces have made progress in their activities. The interoperability aspects of the management and command system have been improved, communications involving information, navigation and identification systems have been improved. Interoperability of logistics has been improved through operational, material and administrative aspects of standardisation, and on activities to support the host country. Progress has been made in the field of military education, training and doctrine. English language studies have increased the number of members who can work in the international environment, and through military exercises and related training activities, the overall capabilities of the Armed Forces have been raised. By considering the state of regularity of combat technique and material-technical means through the breakdown of the Prevention Maintenance Plan during 2007, it can be concluded that the main direction of development of the Logistics System of Armed Forces towards rationalisation and circulation of logistics capacities has received positive results in relation to the regularity of combat technique and technical-material resources. A plan has been developed to equip and modernise the Armed Forces, which defines dynamics, priorities and financial means for equipment and modernisation. In the long term, the completion of new development projects for the Armed Forces is aimed at interoperability with the NATO Armed Forces, while at the same time the allocations for the development and equipment of the Armed Forces are balanced with the budgetary capabilities of the defence system. In its move towards joining NATO, not only should the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia go through transformation processes, but as far as these processes must go, other institutions of Croatian societies require new abilities and continuous adjustments, which belong to the entire security and defence system of the Republic of Croatia. Certainly, the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, as an organisation and members themselves, will have to make even more efforts to develop, achieve the necessary military capabilities and create a new profile of the Armed Forces in the field of human, material resources, logistics system, military training doctrines, international military cooperation, and preparedness for new missions and tasks, such as participation in peace operations to respond to crises outside national territory and planning and implementation... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8214	Thank you very much. It could be something like that in the replica. Mr. Representative Andrew Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8215	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. We have yet another very high quality report on the readiness of the defence system, the implementation of human resources policy and the overall state in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. I say another quality because we have already been used to getting very comprehensive reports that are comprehensive and that show what has been done and what will be done in the next period. It is very important that this quality, as counterpart Djakic says, is particularly improved after 2004, and we welcome that this report is on this path to further and better results of work of course of the ministry as well as other sectors of the government. This report shows, of course, that the main goal remains to harmonize our armed forces and our doctrines, and our strategies with the NATO strategy, and should be said that just in 2007 it was the highest quality year because it made final adjustments for what followed in 2008 and this is getting calls for NATO. It should be said that behind us is a difficult period of adaptation of the entire Ministry of Defence and the armed forces from the war system to the peacetime system, that the painful years of 98 and 2000 are behind us, that this is now a report that shows that we are no longer suffering from these initial diseases and that we can measure ourselves really with all the most developed countries in terms of military strategy and preparedness of the defence system. The long way behind us, should only be reminded briefly, is very complex. In fact, after the Partnership for Peace he followed a very important step, which is to join the Membership Action Plan. And it should be said that Croatia has reached and reached some countries that entered and joined the Action Plan several years before Croatia as a first important step towards joining NATO, which is absolutely commendable and clearly seen from this report. What is very important in our system of transatlantic military and other integration is an invitation for membership, which is directed by the NATO Council of Alliances, which we have also received and we can say proudly receive at the NATO's largest summit in Bucharest. But success is, of course, not only in the development of the armed forces and the adaptation of the entire defence ministry, but in all political and economic reforms that are the second condition of NATO accession, financial reform, in general security measures that must reach a high level and legal issues. In all five areas, we managed to catch the connection even though only ten years have passed since the end of the war in Croatia. I say "just" compared to these big reforms. The Ministry of Defence brought a whole series of strategic documents, which the government of course accepted. I'd mention some of them because they're the basis of this report. First of all, the 2003-2007 Defence Policy Programme, which is high-quality, accurate and which is very strictly implemented in this latest phase of the programme. Then, the 2006-2007 Annual Defence System Guidelines, which are also included and as we can see from the reports fully realised. And all of this is based on a key strategic document called the Long-term Guidelines for the Development Plan of the Armed Forces for the period 2006-2015. And that's exactly the document that broke through I would say the last fences in those who were skeptical whether Croatia could meet those high criteria. Namely, it is this document of the 2006-2015 Long-term Development Plan that NATO members have accepted as proof that Croatia is capable of being able to plan on its own strategically and that is most important for the development of the armed forces. This report gives a very real assessment of the security environment. I quote, it is said that the low probability of conventional threats is, although they cannot be completely excluded over a long period of time because of specific political situations in the environment. This is a realistic examination of the facts in our environment and I would link it up and perhaps suggest that it become the basis of another assessment and that is an assessment of the possible change in the definition of Article 39. A defence law that says the Croatian Parliament can decide not to invite recruits to regular compulsory military service. In the next period, it may be necessary to develop criteria that affect such a decision, so we should see criteria that could at some point lead to the need for this provision to be applied. In other words, to reactivate the recruiting. These conditions and these criteria should take into account political developments, security developments, global terrorism, possible elemental disasters and a whole series of other factors that may affect the change of such a decision. In this report, we see that despite the financial gaps in past periods, we are now catching a connection to that 2% of the budget that the Ministry of Defence has to receive. So, in connection with the top results that this ministry has achieved, we need to take a critical view of the financial deficit and say that the team is more justified in our praises that we are hearing today practically from all lines of parties in this House. For example, I will say excellent results in mobility and the deployment of armed forces although we do not have means of transport or, for example, extraordinary results in missions outside the country where we achieve equal results to others because we have trained staff and there we are adding quality technical support in these missions. So training and training is at such a level that it can meet new technical challenges at any time. Maybe I should mention that, and I've been saying that for a few years now and I never see in these reports that it's still a great deal of work and the merit of our experiences in the Homeland War. And I don't think that we should hesitate, and that should be stated in each of our reports because the exercise of command staff in the Homeland War definitely gives these good results. And maybe another proposal, which in this report is the only thing I miss that's the report on reserve training. I know it takes a lot of financial resources, that it's a huge organisational leap, but I think it's time we start thinking strategically and in the future, the more we have a limited service of the military. In other words, training the reserve will become the cornerstone of long-term security. And that's why my proposal is to give this particular emphasis, because the reserve is the cheapest, most rational and most effective type of security for a long time. What's good here is that it started at the transformation of the civil part of the defense, that the coordination of the civil part with the fighting sector started, and there we also have great results and great experiences from the Homeland War, let's just remember the military-civil sanity. And finally, my question actually goes to the chapter of the implementation of the staff procurement plan in 2007, where in the analysis of human potentials, I don't know why it writes resources again, I don't understand that word in the dictionary, and I didn't find it, so I'd like to hear human potentials, the achievement plan is relatively low, and it's precisely at those levels where the highest levels of education are required. So in active military personnel, we see that the 2007 plan was an increase of 110, and only 47 were achieved. So 63 people less than planned. Similarly, we see, in fact, among civil servants and tenants where they needed them instead of 40, or should have been 40, and only 14, so 26 fewer. The first information for active military personnel therefore refers to officers, means highly educated military personnel, and others to officials and subsistence officers. I assume that this is related to financial capacity and that they will develop in line with the increase in gross national income and our budget part of the resolution ministry. It's final. The report should be supported, congratulated by the ministry and supported by its insistence in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8216	Thank you. Mr. Representative Mato Bilnjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8217	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, there is a report in front of us that can be said to be an objective, objective report of the armed forces. So we'll start with, my colleagues said a lot, so they took a lot of what I wanted to point out. But only, at the very beginning, means the mission and task of the armed forces is to protect sovereignty, territorial integrity and defence of the Republic of Croatia, and then says the Allies. Until yesterday, we know what was the task and structure of the Armed Forces in the Republic of Croatia, from the first Kalashnikovs of hunting weapons, from the village guards, via "Bleska" and "Storm". And today we have this opportunity, we have this honor, to be invited by friends of the Allies to assist them in peacekeeping missions, or to assist them with our instructors in the formation of their armed forces. In 2007, armed forces of the Republic of Croatia participated with 46 members in 13 peacekeeping missions, thus continuing their participation in 9 UN missions, in Etopia, Pakistan, Sahara, Libya, Haiti, Cyprus, Georgia, Lebanon, etc. And not only were they involved in these peacekeeping missions, but in a peace mission in India, Pakistan, our high-ranking officer acted as mission commander. The participation of armed forces in Afghanistan in 2007 from 147 to 200 soldiers and all in order to bring peace to the world. It's far better to put out a fire in someone else's backyard than wait for a fire in their backyard. And it's far better that our peacemakers, or our instructors, go to the furs of the hotspots, that these cross-storages don't come back again. Because we know very well what it is to be in a crisis hotspot and that we have these scars in the past. The number of members in 2007 was 22 thousand and 650 together with officials and tenants. And in the following year, it is planned, in 2009, with 1600 tenants and officials and 16 thousand members of the armed forces to 17,000 and 600 employees, it will be a reduction, but also a parallel and rejuvenation of our staff. Armed forces took part in fire-fighting seasons from both land and air. They provide assistance to local self-government units in engineering work, construction of land work, municipal infrastructure, with citizens' rescue services. The entry of the Republic of Croatia into NATO is not only the entry of the military component but also the assistance of the development of the domestic industry. So we can say that the contract was signed on the production of an armored vehicle... armored vehicle. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A contract concluded with Finnish... and Djurom Djakovic, special vehicles from Slavonski Brod for 84 combat armored infantry vehicles with configuration 8 times 8. About Đura Djakovic, who was a giant metal and military production before the war, who was a driver with more than 150 thousand inhabitants of the city's region, the Slavonsko Brod region and the Bosnian Posavina, who produced weapons in the Homeland War, and then kneeled. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then for the development of the economy itself in this area and this, a great injection and a great thank-you to the Ministry and the Government, which is exactly what Đuri Djakovic gave in Slavonski Brod. Also in domestic production we know very well what Croatian self-creation means to us, on the domestic and on the world market. And the development of a domestic assault rifle of 5 56 NATO standards will certainly make a major contribution to the weapons of our forces and to the very financial effect of selling the same one when it perfects. What makes me like a soldier yesterday is the most in this report that's on 83 pages, is the work of the military police, that is, order and discipline. We can see that the criminality procedure in 2006 was 351, so the military police procedure by crime, and in 2007 155, which was reduced by 55% in 196 cases. In the case of a 2006 infringement, it was 187, 2007. 164 which is less than 23 or 12.3%. Only in the case of transport accidents in 2006 was 126 and in 2007. 137, means an increase of 11%, i.e. 8.7%, which should draw attention to technical services, i.e. employees who are being given, and this trend decreases, and this trend decreases, in order to minimise traffic accidents caused by members of the armed forces. And we have other events that were 178 in 2006, and in 2007, 123 either means 55 fewer cases or 30.1% less, or in 2006, we had a military police procedure of 842 cases, and in 2007 579 or 263 times less or 31% reduced, which can certainly be praised not only by the military police, but also by members of the Armed Forces. We also have military-supervised courts which in 2006 received criminal charges 362, and in 2007 227, a reduction of 38% or 139 criminal cases. We have 406 in 2006. In 2007. 266 which for 140 is less than or 34.5 and registered persons means in 2006 compared to 2007 it means 448 298 which is less than or 33% for 150 persons. All in all, when we look at military-stricken courts, they got less application and they worked less. 2006. 1216, 2007. 787 or 429 reports less or 35% less violations, which increases the reputation of the Armed Forces and the trust of the citizens who enjoy all the research by members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. What I would like to say in the end is that the military in Novi Gradiška is to give to the judiciary, and to create a palace of justice for the circus of 70 thousand inhabitants in our area. I think then the citizens of Brod-Posavina County with Djur Djakovic and this part would be pleased even though Mr. Ministers are so pleased with your members who show every year on the spot what the Armed Forces are in peace. Today, the Armed Forces have a junior commanding staff trained, educated, experienced. They have the ability and efficiency of communication, effective management of people and resources, a war route that gives them great reputation in soldiers. It is necessary to continue rejuvenation, training staff, equipment, ensure decent salaries and housing, and then certainly no concern for the safety of the Republic of Croatia. This report is as I finally said extensively, objectively, professionally and would be my pleasure to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8218	Thank you. We have one replica, Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8219	I think my colleague's done a good job of apostropheing about the buildings themselves, those areas that aren't perspective to the Armed Forces. So, this is a valuable state property that, if it's not in function, it just fails and if it's not put into function not only to fail, but also the state has certain costs of electricity, water, some kind of elemental maintenance, etc. That is why this proposal therefore means that other ministries that are in need of this space and certainly still have it, such as the Ministry of Justice, because the judicial authorities are in need of that space. Here, for example, in 2002, in this huge complex which is now quite slowly being restored and put into operation. He had two, a few years ago three, four years ago to be put into office. So, at this crossing of Selska, a huge military complex was put in place for the needs of the judicial bodies of the City of Zagreb. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8220	Thank you. Mr. Angelko Mihalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8221	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I would also evaluate as my predecessors this Annual Defence System preparedness report and the implementation of human resources policy and the overall state of the Armed Forces as well. So that report as well, comprehensively and precisely and of course I will also be a member of the Defence and Support Committee. But I also agree with someone who used to talk, I don't really agree with someone who used to say there shouldn't actually be any secrets there and that all the data should be substantiated to this Parliament. I do not agree with that, and I think there are things that this Parliament does not need to know, because we cannot, of course, compare today's situation and the situation when Croatia was at war, and imagine that here in this House all the data from '92, '95, were being presented. etc. But I think a lot of things here have been visible from these documents, and as such a report, we have to and should adopt. But in order to know and appreciate this report and these resources that we have today, I would look back and not so far back for about 17 years. I think today, only colleague Cosic was saying something about it. We should remember first and foremost what our basics were after the first parliamentary elections. I then, after the first parliamentary elections, was a member of the presidency of the Varazdin Municipality, and I remember that the weapons of territorial defence then welcomed us, did not actually welcome us, but was taken away, stored in a safe place as they then told us in the Yugoslav People's Army military for the security and preservation of the Yugoslav order. I think that's the official report we received back then. After the first elections, we know how things were going and I was a participant and I see, thank God that there are a lot of colleagues who have also done that, and I remember how the first arms started and, as my colleague Mato told the village guards and unarmed and armed National Protection Squad, and now I don't have much longer. And how happy we were when we bought the first 10 or 15 guns. The last 1,000 marks were given for that weapon, and in fact we started defending the Republic of Croatia. I also remember that we had some kind of improvised and device. We had improvised and places to make bombs. Here, a lot of young men from my area later died of it. However, both that euphoria and need were quite different and once again I say, 17 years are hard to understand today. I was also a participant and commander of the crisis headquarters when it was released, so it was in the 9th month, 18.9.1991, the largest military warehouse in northwestern Croatia, Varazdin Breg Bajnščina. After that, as you remember, the course of the war changed significantly in Croatia, because two days after Bajnške was also committed, he surrendered, I don't know which was, in 32nd or which guard zone in Varazdin. Eighty tanks, and, if I'm not talking about thousands of guns, that's when they went to the battlefield, and that's what they were, and today we need to remember, we're not in that situation anymore, we have a budget and 4 billion and 5 billion kuna today, which is not little, which I think is even beyond our capabilities and one situation that's far away, away from that. Now I have to remember and use this payphone to say, many of you remember the first flight of planes to the territory of the Republic of Croatia, not that flyover, first flew Rudy Perishin to Klagenfurt, but here in Pula. That flyover was taken by my friend Daniel Borovic from my place, and I took part in it. He led the action, then the brigade, today I think General Stjepan Adamic and you remember what it was, what a moment it was for all those who were on the battlefields and how much we had then an additional imperative and pride for all of it. Those planes later participated in ours, that's what counterpart Cosic knows, in our combat actions. So, you see, these were the beginnings, and today, I say today is a very different situation and today is only about ten years after the end of all operations and war in Croatia, our young men today, as fellow Mato said, participate in all actions both in Afghanistan and others, and not just as ordinary soldiers, but as officers, officers, etc. So these were all moments when our defenses were created in this way, etc. and the army and this adjustment when I'm listening now, the adjustment one, the adjustment behind the adjustment, you know, the adjustment in the war was something else. We had to adapt within a few days or you're gone. I mean, of all this, I support everything. Maybe, maybe I wasn't much of a supporter to lift the military deadline because I don't think it would hurt anyone for a year if there was a part in the army, we were all there more or less. I was also in JNA, that army. But, well, here we go in step with new times, I think now that we're joining NATO, so that's another extra security for Croatia and I can proudly say to my son, they're following children, my son is 10 years old and he's asking me, and he's watching on TV every day. Well, Dad, there's going to be a war again, so they're afraid of the kids, so, son, sure as hell not. And especially now I can say, knowing the situation that we will never again be interested in the election through Drina, we will be members of NATO and, therefore, a new time is coming for Croatia. I would ask Mr. Defence Minister, just as my colleague Mato said, this Bajnščina warehouse has served its purpose, if it will no longer be necessary, my municipality will continue to master and surely all these facilities that will no longer be needed by the new formation of our defence forces, in order to welcome units of local self-government or some other economic entities to be for the purpose and well-being of the people. I thank you both in my name and in the name of the mayor of the city of Varazdin, he has received much of it. Today, instead of a military facility, we have colleges in Varazda today, and I think it's a good gesture and a good understanding. All the people at the head of the Department of Defense. Here, once again, I say I support this report and thank you very much. [[- That's a good one.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8222	Thank you. We also have one replica. Mr. Representative Ante Kotromanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8223	... We're at peace today, no secrets. [[Specially enabled.]] The Department of Defense, we don't have any secrets. We know the number of soldiers, here in the report writes the number of armored vehicles, the number of warships, the number of tanks, so that this High House certainly does not carry out operations of any kind, so that within 30 days the Croatian Army must attack or defend itself from someone so that we can hide some secrets, date, day, time, neither do I. I think the High House knows this stuff anyway. Not only the High House, but you can go online, so you'll see on the Morh's pages this all the data I'm talking about exists and of course we support the report, but I think you've been saying more since '91. It's the year since 2007. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8224	Thank you. Mr. Representative Shimo Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8225	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. As I prepare for an individual debate, I must make it as brief as possible because my colleagues and colleagues have already said a lot of things, so I don't repeat myself. I am giving my support to the discussion of my colleague Biljic and his colleagues who have found out, and I confirm that too, that we should go back a little bit and tell ourselves where we were and where we are now. You remember when no one wanted us. With what weapons we have defended the Republic of Croatia, with what love and enthusiasm we have created the Croatian Armed Forces and I am proud and pleased that our colleagues here in this honorable House, who have done so, have taken part in this debate. Let us be proud of these moments and when we compare this time of creation of the Armed Forces, in a material and humane sense, and today by reading this report I think, my personal opinion is that we can and must be satisfied with the level of equipment, human resources, expertise and in every other respect. The report, in my opinion, is well-conceived, that it is a real report, but I am glad that, when it comes to the equipment of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, that absolute domestic resources are being used. And when it comes to special weapons, infantry and other, but also when it comes to production, domestic production and combat armored vehicles, as counterpart Biljic said in his address, and combat armored vehicles and dear friends in our country, in Slavonski Brod in special vehicles Đure Đaković is produced by a tank T85, M85 which the profession says, does not say Professor Šima Djurdjevic, the profession says it is extremely well armored, a good tank that has shown itself on battlefields and certainly on trial and all other shootings. The equipment of the Croatian Army with this tank M84 was completed as of 2003, but the care and co-operation of special vehicles "Djuro Djakovic" and the Croatian Army does not stop. Of course, the contracts for remounting and modernising the same tank were signed so that the link between the Republic of Croatia's economy and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia is very present here. I am also pleased that the expert commission of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia has claimed that special vehicles "Djuro Đaković" can produce a fighting armored vehicle "Patria" and that all preparations have been made, all advances made to produce in one recent time, and therefore dear friends keep 500 jobs in special vehicles of the Republic of Croatia. In the end, I thank the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia for putting on the use of the town of Slavonski Brod a monument of the zeroth category in Slavonski Brod in Slavonski Brod. Today there is the administration of the city, music school, classical high school and other facilities in the monument of the zero category. Of course I will support this report as a representative in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8226	Thank you. And the Defence Minister, Mr Branko Vukelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8227	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Well, before I finish a few sentences about what you've been discussing, I'd like to say some questions. Just one apology to the Međimurci, because this supplement in the report was wrongly written with some military facilities that were isolated and as inspective assigned to the counties instead of Međimurska was placed here by Koprivnica-križevanja County. So it's no intention, it's a technical error. But perhaps immediately mentioned, because there were questions about exactly the objects assigned to cities, municipalities, counties, then it should be said that the Croatian government, it passed, in the past four years and this new one will continue because it is the politics of the Croatian government. That these objects that are not perspective for the Croatian military, were assigned to the units of local administration and self-government, and what the Croatian Army did and the Ministry of Defence, it was that it defined which objects are perspective and which are not. There is exactly a list of all the objects and all the inspective objects are at the disposal of the Croatian government to assign them to those for which they will be useful, so to the citizens where these finally objects are located. Here at the beginning of this final address allow me also to say the words of praise on behalf of all members of the Armed Forces and the Ministry of Defence for the praises you gave them for what they did in 2007 and not only that year, but indeed, the members of the Armed Forces and the employees of the Ministry of Defence have made an extremely great effort and contributed greatly to our being able to talk today about the future NATO membership, this is the spring of next year, and that we have an invitation for NATO in our pocket, so that we have received it. It's really a credit to all of them. Thank you for having you here from this assembly and for telling them loud and clear. I also thank you for your commendation when it comes to the report, because the report really deserves these commendations. It's very open, transparent, it's not cover-up, it doesn't want to cover anything up. It really detailed the situation in all segments of our defence and the Armed Forces and activities done in the ministry during 2007. Comparing a particular sentence whether it stands in the report this year compared to last year, I don't think it's a good way to go, because then it could bring us back to the past, we don't have to go back in the past, so let's say to compare the report in 2004 to the one in 2003, not because in 2003 it wasn't, even though the law had to do it in 2002. Then we could tell who he was then, who he was, now he's not needed. I absolutely welcome all the debates that have gone the way that the report in certain parts of the work is done, and that is what I think rightly accept, I welcome and that is what the Defence Committee concludes as well, so that we respect these remarks, suggestions and make it even more quality and even better, and that is the wish. So every year we go forward and with this report, but it's really not haired, it hasn't in any part tried to cover up the situation or embellish the situation that's in the Armed Forces or that's related to the subject to which the report relates. I would also like to say one thing, two strategically, I would say the path that we started in Croatia and which is the Croatian Parliament through the amendment of the law and established, it is voluntary service of the military deadline. Presumptions for him were created legally last year. This year with 1.1. the suspension of compulsory military service started and I want to say the rules were made, preparations for and accommodation of voluntary handbooks are ongoing. We will do what our obligation is, there is no delay, and that is that in the fall of this year, the first group of volunteers comes to the military for voluntary military service. When it comes to the Coast Guard, I would also like to say, there were inscriptions here the other day and in the media, the delay of the government, it's late. That's not true. All assumptions were made last year, all the rules and regulations that were forwarded to the opinions of all other ministries and bodies of the state administration were drawn up, so all acts will be adopted in time. The Coast Guard commander has been appointed. The Coast Guard is also established, confirmed by the president of the Croatian state. Also, when it comes to coast guard ships, all preparations are going, the financial resources for this year are foreseen, we will believe by the end of the year and implement the tender procedure for selecting performers, so smaller coastal armored ships, and next year as planned we should go to bigger ones. Therefore, there are no delays, and I think that the Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces are doing their part of the job extremely well this year, based on all of that and the previous actions that were done just in 2007. A few sentences regarding, here, and the position and conclusions of the Committee on Gender Equality, and it was you who discussed this particular area and the question, I just want to say that this is what the Ministry of Defence is counting on. As part of the Staff Board, a Committee on Gender Equality has been established with the task of achieving equal treatment and status and of providing equal access to equal opportunities for both gender members. So that's what we do all the time. And what might also be important to say, since we've already mentioned it, I'm also accepting that conclusion from the board that's speaking in the direction that next year's report and that part... The state of the Ministry of Defence was shown to the Armed Forces. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it should also be said that when we look at both the current situation and when we look at trends over the past few years, then we should see that from 2004 to 2008, there is a visible increase in women, and in the Armed Forces, that is 3%, and in the Ministry of Defence where it is 5%. Or when we look at women's participation in the defence ministry and the Armed Forces, it's 9% today. Or if we look at women's participation in relation to the total number of DOD employees, then the percentage today is 17%, or if we look at women's participation in the total number of employees in the military-security intelligence agency, then it's 25% today. I'm not saying that that's a enough percentage, I'm not saying that I shouldn't, so continue to improve all the activities that we're doing to make that percentage bigger, but even now the situation, just like it is, in the next year in the reports, it's going to be special and tax-listed. There were also questions about staff and personnel that we have for the very fact that we are soon becoming a member of the NATO Alliance, that by signing the protocol, our members and employees will be also on the boards of all NATO. So we're going to need a lot of people in Brussels, and in NATO Command, Naples and elsewhere. Do we have any frames? We've got personnel, and that's exactly what power is, one very large, our armed forces and the Department of Defense. It's that we have a very high-quality, highly educated, educated officer who has been very cooperative and working all these years. Well, we now have our officers who are in the NATO command, so who work together with NATO officers and who have these experiences, and we will certainly be able to do and fill in quality with our personnel. But that's why exactly what the report said, and you said in the debates, it's very important that we open this process within the Armed Forces system of promotion, so I'd say the motivations of our members of the Armed Forces, officers with promotion to multiple acts. But also, by going to Brussels and including all NATO committees, we will get space, so that we can also through the politics of senior acts, the promotion of therefore officers, employees, active military personnel, create space so that it is also one of the stimulating forms when it comes to our staff and members of the Croatian Army. What I want to encourage in particular here, and I am particularly pleased that you saw in fact that last year with one capital major project, which is precisely combat armored vehicles and competitions that were held last year, has set out for a more significant story of the participation of the Croatian industry in military production, so our military industry. We really don't have any big ones, when we talk about how many years our military industry lasts, traditions, but we certainly have great potentials. And that there is "Djuro Djakovic" and many other Croatian companies that have a lot of potentials, not only to produce for the Croatian Army, but to produce for armies and other countries and this region, but also for the whole world. So when we talk about stimulating measures, there were questions and questions and questions and wages, but I think I believe everyone knows that information, that the first of May increased salaries to active military personnel. And they didn't go equally, the higher 20% went to the soldiers, up to 5% to some senior officers. Also, a large, over 25% went to the lieutenants, just to solve one problem we have, which is that on the very first officer act, the lieutenants, so these are people who, with colleges, highly educated, come to the Croatian Army, and we don't have enough, especially some deficiting professions. We want to encourage and motivate people to come to the Croatian Army right now and solve the problem that this report shows that for certain professions, highly educated people of individual professions we find difficult to find on the market. Otherwise, they are not there when we talk about the economy, and it is particularly difficult to motivate them to come to the Croatian Army. Therefore, the new housing policy that is being prepared and where the rules will be adopted during this year is a policy that will give, I would say, new motives and motivation for people who are or who want to enter the system of the Armed Forces, so also to the Ministry of Defence. What I would like to mention further and say, here were mentioning also around the southern sea base, therefore, the base of our Coast Guard and for our Navy, there were clumsy statements and there were, I would say, some tensions and from the area of Dubrovnik-Neretva County, surely one, such a southern naval base needs the Croatian military, we need the Coast Guard, we need it, but it should be done in accordance with the profession, so with the locality that is responsible for the tasks that need to be done, but also with the consent of the people who live down there and we will continue that way. I believe that we will also find a final solution that will be satisfactory both for the military and therefore for the needs of the Croatian Army, but it will also be satisfactory for the people living in that area and I believe that there will be no such project, a project of some kind of rebellion or dissatisfaction on any side. I thank you once again for, here, your suggestions, the suggestions we'll keep in mind when we're making the 2008 report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8228	Thank you. We have one correction, Mrs. Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8229	Well, I have a correction to my mind by the inaccuracies of Mr. Secretary who speaks of great care when it comes to women who participate in the system through the Ministry of Defense or through the Armed Forces. You tried to back it up. If that were what you say, then you would have included those data in this year's report in the way recommended by the Committee on Gender Equality. This is how it stays just to take your word for it. Correction, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8230	That would be an addition, a proposal to supplement the report. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We will decide and vote when the conditions are met. 18, Annual Report on the preparedness of the defence system, implementation of the Staff Policy and the overall situation in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia with the State of Defence Preparation in the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I'm putting the report to the vote. Who's in? Let's get involved, let's vote. The result? This report was accepted by most votes, 77 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 1 against. I am now giving the opinion of the Defence Committee: it is up to the Government to take care of the opinions and proposals presented on the Committee when processing the 2008 report. Who's in favor of this conclusion? Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The conclusion was accepted with 51 votes for, 8 abstentions and 20 against. The following proposed conclusion was submitted by the Committee on Gender Equality: it is up to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to report on the preparedness of the defence system, the implementation of human resources policy and the overall situation in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, with a report on the state of defence preparations in the Republic of Croatia, all data relating to human resources management policy show by gender. Let's get involved and vote. The Committee on Gender Equality proposes that it be accepted. I don't think the government is against it. The result? This conclusion was accepted by 72 votes in favour, 5 abstentions and 2 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8233	Thank you. Mr. President, honourable MPs and MPs. The report on the work of the Advocate General for Gender Equality for 2007 is the fifth annual report submitted by the Advocate General to the Croatian Assembly, which describes all activities of the Advocate's Office during the year of the report and in accordance with the powers and part-time work of a specific Law on Gender Equality. As every year, I point out that, apart from individual complaints, the office has followed the application of laws and regulations concerning gender equality, including relevant international contracts ratified by the Republic of Croatia and national policies, which means education, media, statistics, discrimination at work and others. However, some topics last year were as crucial as violence against women because there was a European and national campaign against violence against women we actively followed or again parliamentary elections and elections for the councils of national minorities. Some of the other topics that we have been following last year were not so detailed, but we are following as I have already said according to what is being imposed on us in some way or what is particularly important. So this year, of course, just before there was a word about the position of women in the ministries, we processed that in the previous year's report. Also this year there is nothing special because there is nothing new about women in rural areas etc. Now, with regard to statistical indicators during 2007, there were a total of 19,000 196 cases and 968 cases opened in 2007 and 228 cases transferred from earlier years. The number refers to 303 cases received under complaints from citizens and citizens, of which 268 new and 35 from earlier periods, and a total of 18 new cases opened on the prosecutor's initiative to violate the principle of gender equality or discrimination. I'd like to explain this. By following the media, we sometimes find that something has appeared that would indicate a violation of either the principles of equality or discrimination and that of groups of citizens or citizens, and then we examine these cases in particular as was the case in the report related to women’s paying for implants after breast cancer surgery, and that case has actually been processed in the report. The other items mainly refer to the monitoring of the application of the Gender Equality Act, which is what I have already highlighted, media, statistics, national policies etc. As far as efficiency is concerned, a thousand 124 cases have been completed, which is 94%. As for the structure of the complaint, I wouldn't go here to the percentages that are mostly shown here. If there's anything further that needs to be clarified, I'll make myself clear. So we have one increase in individual cases, a complaint of 38 86% but still mostly women are damaged, 64.18%. This year, the number of complaints about discrimination on the basis of family status and sexual orientation was increased and reduced by gender and marital status. The number of complaints in relation to other forms such as violence and discrimination at work has also increased. After we have completed our proceedings, we give in accordance with the law of warnings, recommendations or suggestions and statistics we have published in the report and, in addition, by following the Law on Gender Equality, such as advertising, campaigning, Council of Europe, etc., statistics are listed here. The complaint procedure is detailed in the descriptions of the cases which are as characteristic of the report in the fields. In addition, the report also lists the legal papers that actually took place last year and which have either anti-discrimination effects or in any case affect the better status of women and this is again according to the topics mentioned. It begins with the Law of Weapons, on amendments to the Family Law, devising maternity benefits and a lot of other things that are mentioned here. The same should be said for increasing the number of collective agreements in which more detailed and better works are actually covered by the protection of the dignity of workers and workers involved in labour harassment. Therefore, there are a number of complaints concerning labour and employment discrimination but we still do not believe that this reflects the right situation in relation to discrimination in this area. The reasons for the rare reporting of such discrimination are which I can say freely because we are talking to the parties in the Office. We have visited all shelters outside of Zagreb and on many round tables and in any case conversations with trade unions and trade unions are one of the key causes of fear of losing work or worsening the position at work. The feeling of discomfort is the same in cases of sexual harassment, as well as the lack of knowledge of their rights and the possibility of protecting these rights and the lack of legal or judicial practice in cases of discrimination. Since anti-discrimination legislation is relatively new, we still do not know what the situation is about judgments, how the damages for discrimination are actually judged. We do not have another practice in which we could refer and ultimately inform the parties about what awaits them in the court proceedings. The report and emerging forms of discrimination are listed, but it should also be said that when we talk to people or we receive their complaints, it is not about precise description of, say, labour harassment, it is usually a whole series of problems that occur to people, which has nothing to do with discrimination, but it is about violations of labour rights. However, if we see that, we inform the state inspectorate, so let them check what is in their actual domain. It is noticeable that when it comes to complaints about harassment at work that applicants are exclusively women. Most complaints about labour discrimination are also women. But in the field of employment discrimination, so before getting a job, there's a significant number of complaints from men. So they really know what sub-representation means and what ads are supposed to be like. And that in advertising, I think that's what we've said in the report, and we've been doing it for years, that we've sent 325 warnings to advertisers who advertise against the Gender Equality Act. This should again be mentioned in an important law, the Law on academic and professional names and academic degrees, which obliges the use of gender-sensitive, academic and professional names. And it also provides for sanctions for those who do not. There are still competitions that use academic names exclusively in the male race. However, by comparing, we have made analyses, we can already say that the law is respected in 70%, which was completely unimaginable several years ago. With regard to the field of work and employment, we analysed a detailed annual incentive and employment plan for 2007, and here we specifically pointed out that the analysis results in the highest percentage of unemployed women in the age group from 50 to 54 years. And we have been particularly involved in co-financing and employment of women victims of violence. And we have submitted a request to all the field offices of the Croatian Employment Service, meaning 21 offices to provide us with information on how to implement the measures and what they are actually doing to promote and co-financing and employment opportunities. Talks with women, especially in shelters, make it clear that they have no information about this type of co-financing. According to information from the field offices of the employment office, women are not actually legitimateized as victims of violence, but they have cases in small places where employers do not want to hire victims of violence because of possible problems they would later have. In any case, 6 women victims of violence are not enough to hire during one year, because their problems are huge. And practically anyone who's in the shelter, especially if she's changed the place of residence has that problem. As far as employment and work are concerned, I would especially point out that we have provided information on membership on boards, 20 of the most successful companies per sex. And there's information that 87% of the men are actually, is on the boards of these companies, but there we also connected to the question of the law regarding statistics. Because neither the State Statistics Institute could obtain this based on the data provided to it, but by analysing financial reports, which is another area where statistics are not always collected in accordance with the Law on Gender Equality. This year, however, we have not analysed the situation of Roma women as some previous years, but in relation to the labour market and this action plan, we have found that 216 persons of Roma nationality, 50 women or 23.1% of whom are the most employed in Osijek-Baranja County 27. Anything else I wouldn't be able to elaborate on the employment area right now. As far as domestic violence is concerned. There's been an increased number of complaints from our office, but police interventions have also increased. So we can conclude that women decide to report exposure to violence significantly more often than in recent years. The men reported it to our office at 4%. It is also characteristic in these complaints that they sometimes file complaints and associations for the protection of women's rights, but also members and family members. We also described what we found to be involved in the work of police and welfare centres. And we're seeing further progress in otherwise good police conduct. Because during this reporting period, too, she hastily provided an intervention to every report of violence and in most cases, acted in accordance with the protocol. We did present examples in the report, though, when it wasn't like that, but statistically far the largest number of cases were when we didn't actually find, that there was no act in accordance with the law and especially with the protocol. What's the problem and what people are complaining about is a lack of information. Often they don't know the outcome of police or courts' activities, and then they think nothing's done. And that's because the misdemeanor proceedings are being initiated by the M.O.P. and he's as a proposer, he's being called to court, while the victims only testify. They get the decision, of course in the police, and then there comes this disproportionate because and when it's well done, the parties have the feeling that it's not. As far as the social care centre is concerned, they report domestic violence to the police, which is in line with the protocol, and everything we had to say about their work we listed in detail in the report. I've already mentioned the campaign and this is our national campaign to fight domestic violence at the level of local self-government, and we've been involved in a way that we've asked 20 counties and 126 cities for information on whether they've brought in their local campaign marking programs and we've recommended them to do so. We have also followed the protocol on access in the case of domestic violence, and I would point out in particular something that is linked to violence and otherwise the work of coordinators and gender co-ordinators in the offices of the state administration, because it is one of the conclusions in this report that from the practice of our office, coordinators and coordinators either have no influence or for other reasons do not carry out the work of coordination, and according to the law for this. These reasons may be different, but in any case their role should be significantly strengthened. As far as parental care is concerned, there are complaints of men as I have already said because they feel discriminated against in the equal behaviour of parental care they are entitled to. This should highlight the Law on Amendments and Family Law Supplements, which again is very important for the status of women, because a strict relationship with parents who, although formally there is equal responsibility for both parents in raising and raising children, avoid payment of abstention. However, when it comes to parental care, these cases are mostly from the jurisdiction of the courts. None of the attorneys have jurisdiction to work around the courts, so our options have been significantly reduced. If we spot something in the work of the welfare center, then we react. Last year we really devoted a lot of time to the field of education. We analyzed the textbooks of Croatian language and literature from the gender perspective from 5 to 8th grade of primary school as well as all other regulations related to education. I think there's a lot of reports here. We can see that there's progress. The only thing we've found is that more uniformly visible female and male characters in visual solutions would mean promoting gender equality. We also made certain recommendations. With regard to education, we have also conducted an analysis of approved scientific programmes by gender, and nothing significantly changes with regard to gender equality. Technically, the scientific field is the one where women are the weakest represented both as scientists and as students, and then, of course, it is reflected later and on the labour market because they are employed according to what they have been educated for. With regard to the provision of political parties in the Law on Gender Equality, we have followed the elections, both parliamentary and election for members and members of the Council of National Minorities, in such a way that we have collected and analysed both the lists of candidates for sex and not just the election results for sex. The election lists for members and members of the National Minority Council included 76.31% of men and 23.69% of women. Between the candidates and the candidates selected, we gave data both per county and the City of Zagreb. As far as parliamentary elections are concerned, I don't think this should be specifically elaborated. But we've done something that cannot be obtained from the election results, which is that we've analyzed the candidate lists by the bearers and carriers and by the order of candidates and candidates in the first five places on the candidate lists. The results are such that I do not see any further shift and therefore, as in earlier years, something will improve by introducing internal party quotas or by amending electoral laws or the Law on Gender Equality. We also devoted a large part of the report to the media. And I would especially like to point out that the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity presented last year and a handbook with guidelines for media reports on domestic violence. And for the sake of office transparency, we created new websites and we had quite a visitation. It's all in the report. Therefore, as regards anti-discrimination laws and general legislation, there is also a practice of improvement. But of course, the application of the Law on Gender Equality remains unsatisfactory. Speaking of labour harassment and discrimination at work, we have devoted a part of the contract to a certain time as well as every year, because it is clear from our contacts that these contracts are one of the sources of the problem why the discrimination of this kind is not actually reported. What we tried to do increased last year is cooperate with trade unions that, unlike previous years, become more sensitive to the gender aspect of their activities and, as I said, increases the number of collective agreements that, by introducing specific provisions, contribute to the promotion of gender equality. The report also praised the work and cooperation with the State Inspectorate, but estimates that they do not have sufficient capacity in relation to the powers they have remain. We are particularly concerned about the scope and forms of domestic violence, which means that good legislation, good government action, means only reacting to violence, which the state is responsible for because it has to protect the victims, but obviously we need much stronger prevention that this violence would not be so much. And I would say one more thing, it would be a lot easier for us all to do if policies, public policies on gender equality, about protecting against domestic violence had one methodology of reporting, each and every one of them reported the same thing, so it's very difficult to get one really complete analysis of what's going on in each area. Thank you and I'm ready to respond to... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8234	Thank you. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? Yeah. The Committee on Gender Equality, Mrs. Gordana Sobol, president. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8235	Thank you, Mr. President, Madam Attorney, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament discussed a report on the work of the Advocate General for Gender Equality in 2007 as the Advocate for Gender Equality, in accordance with Article 21(2). The Law on Gender Equality provides a regular annual report on the work of the Croatian Parliament. In the opening presentation of the Ombudsman, the Committee met the activities undertaken concerning the monitoring and implementation of the Law on Gender Equality, as well as other rules concerning gender equality. Citizens and citizens address the lawyer personally in the office, in written complaints and on the phone. According to the content, complaints relate to the violation of the principle of gender equality or discrimination based on sex, marital or family status, sexual orientations, as well as the monitoring of the implementation of the Law on Gender Equality. An analysis of the results of the parliamentary elections, as well as elections for the council of national minorities, shows that there has been no satisfactory increase in political participation. The woman, and the Ombudsman, calls for more consistent compliance with Article 15, when deciding on candidates and candidates for the upcoming local elections next year. Gender equality laws. The position of women on the labour market has not changed significantly either. There is still a high share of women among the unemployed, segregation between men and women on the labour market, work of women in the underpaid sectors as well as gender pay gaps. Deliminating maternity benefits for the first 6 months of maternity leave is a positive legislative change related to improving women's status. The analysis of the Advocate's Office shows that the provisions of Article 13 of the Law on Employment Advertising, which aims to eliminate discrimination in employment, are significantly more consistent in practice than in recent years. The improvements are also visible in preventing the prevention of domestic violence, the protection of victims of domestic violence thanks to continued efforts by state bodies, civil society associations and media. Thanks to the national campaign to combat domestic violence, the Council of Europe's campaign has significantly more to do at local level, and the number of shelters for women victims of violence is increasing. Not enough, however, has been achieved in the psychosocial treatment of bullys solely because of inertness, the slowness of certain relevant ministries. The Committee's debate also highlights the need to strengthen the role of co-ordinators and co-ordinators for gender equality, including the legislative changes and the scratch under which these jobs would be carried out professionally because until now practice shows that even they don't know what their job is. The progress made in implementing the provisions on the collection of gender statistics has been pointed out, indicating the need for the introduction of specific statistics on all judicial procedures for discrimination on labour and employment, but also in other areas of life because statistics are also indicators of the implementation of the effectiveness of anti-discrimination laws and policies. After the debate was held, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to reach a conclusion that a report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality in 2007. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8236	Thank you. Does the other committees want it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, Madam Representative Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8237	Thank you, Mr. President, Madam Attorney, colleagues and colleagues. As the D.A. said, in front of us the 5th consecutive report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality and as all these previous years, the SDP Club will support this report. We believe that it is quite extensive, very correctly done and in accordance with the powers that the Ombudsman has under the Law on Gender Equality. On behalf of the SDP Club, I would particularly like to warn about some areas that are also mentioned in this report, especially those which are continuously identified from year to year as areas where gender imbalance is most clear when it comes to Croatia. This applies in particular to the area of the labour market. In fact, the Ombudsman also stated in this report, much like in the 2006 report, that there is discrimination in the Republic of Croatia on the basis of the dispute both on work and on employment. The reason for the fact that this discrimination is still rarely reported, including judicial proceedings, is mainly attributable to the fear of losing a job, or to the deterioration of the situation at work, to the feeling of discomfort and shame in cases of sexual harassment, to the ignorance of their rights and to the possibility of protecting those rights, and to the lack of case law in cases of discrimination. When we look at the figures from the Croatian Employment Service in March, at the end of March this year, the proportion of unemployed women in the total number of unemployed is 61.7%. I keep warning again and again that it's the only number that increases when they're unemployed. So, no matter what the total number of unemployed decreases, but that number of unemployed women from month to month is constantly growing and if you take the data back 3 or 4 years, then you will see that it has increased by several percent. In its final consideration, the Ombudsman reiterates the high proportion of women who are unemployed, clear horizontal and vertical segregation between men and women on the labour market, the work of women in the underpaid sectors, gender pay gaps, these are constants that remain present, although the overall reduction in unemployment certainly contributed, among other things, to the reduction and unemployment of women. However, what we would like to warn on behalf of the SDP Club, and in other words, different research, including those scientific research done last year, is that it is certainly clear that women are discriminated against on the labour market and that the discrimination process begins already during the employment process. According to a survey conducted by the Gender Equality Office, more than 48% of women face ads that especially prefer only one sex at the beginning. So only men are wanted. Discrimination of women is undoubtedly one of the strongest indicators, discrimination against women on the labour market is undoubtedly one of the strongest indicators of discrimination against women in society. Most women in employment offices are long-term unemployed. They're 35% unemployed between one and five years old. They're 15% from 5 to 8 years old, and 23% are jobless for more than 8 years. The vast majority of them live on the edge of that poverty line, because 67% of them covered by this survey, living in households with incomes of up to 5,000 kuna, and the longest unemployed are with the lowest education. What particularly falls into the eyes, which is that women are also discriminated against by age. In fact, 69% met with the employment impediment, so their years were down in employment. Furthermore, I don’t know how many times we’re talking about discrimination against women when it comes to their marital status, or when it comes to motherhood. Already in the first interviews, 62% asked about marital status and the number of children. 38% of them had to answer what they thought about family planning, whether they were going to get married, whether they were going to have children. They received 9% of all kinds of comments or even requests related to sexual expectations at the workplace, and 5.6% were fired due to pregnancy. So these are the figures that are constantly determined from one research to another research, and in fact the only thing that can be concluded is that we were actually right when we talked in this assembly about national policy to promote gender equality and when we adopted it, we were right to say that neither the application of those measures provided for in national policy to achieve equal opportunities for women on the labour market will be sufficient to reduce the high unemployment rate of women as well as strong vertical and horizontal segregation and the prevailing of women in less paid sectors. What we would also like to warn about, and this is the 2006 report, the Ombudsman specifically pointed to the problem of single parents, in the vast majority, are single mothers, and in the 2006 report, the Ombudsman suggested introducing targeted programmes for single mothers who are in fact at greater risk not only of unemployment but also of social exclusion. However, when you look at the data relating to the employment of these particular groups, then you can see, otherwise it falls under a measure called co-financing of the employment of special groups of unemployed. I have repeatedly warned that this measure will not produce sufficient results because these measures include Croatian defenders, and spouses, and children of the dead and missing Croatian defenders, and treated addicts, and persons with disabilities, single parents, parents with four and more minor children, women victims of violence, victims of human trafficking, former employees and others. So one actually large and wide population that is located in this measure, and then out of 455 employees, the single parents were only 10. The same applies ultimately to women victims of violence. As the D.A. said last year, they were hired by six. The truth is that, it is a new measure, so one group that has entered this measure since last year, but we support actually the attorney's efforts to warn that we obviously haven't done enough to inform and popularise these measures, and I think that I also consider the Employment Office responsible. In addition, when we talk about women victims of violence, there are examples of associations that want to help, so let's say the Association "Step" from Karlovac, who entered together with the Croatian Employment Service and trained women victims of violence for the breeders, I think they are at stake for childcare and cleaning women. However, they have now met essentially bureaucratic obstacles because in order for them to enter into a programme that these women will be able to get a job, the association must establish a social cooperative. There is no social cooperative under our laws, and through the Ministry of Finance, certain programs are implemented in which you must have an established social cooperative so that you can then hire these, among other things, this woman. So we come across a series of obstacles, I think in that sense the state itself should be able to help more. Furthermore, when we talk about violence in recent years, I think we all need to say that, as far as the legislative part is concerned, about politics and strategies, as well as last year's campaign, which was led in Croatia, I think we have taken really big steps. However, what they always face on a daily basis are problems in the application of these legal provisions and in the application of the protocol on the prevention of violence, on procedures to combat domestic violence. I speak primarily here of a provision which we have in some way been a step ahead of many other countries when in the Law on Protection against Family Violence we introduced the possibilities and obligation of actually psychosocial treatment of a bully. That's what we dare say at the very beginning because we've waited two years for the two ministries to agree on who's even competent to pass the rulebook, and now that the rulebook is passed, there's actually no money, or the Ministry of Justice that should have been further elaborated, it didn't. The problem is being warned by both the Ombudsman and indeed from this pay phone, we call on all the competent authorities who need to make it possible, primarily, for this measure to be implemented to do so. When we talk about education, I will warn on behalf of the club, because it is especially visible at the Ministry of Education, I would say one indolent behavior and ignoring the Ministry of Education in relation to the Advocate General for Gender Equality. I mean, I really don't know if it's really possible that one ministry on the re-examination of the attorney doesn't give the information they're looking for. It's a health education program, or sexual education in, experimental health education and education in our schools. We're not going to get into the controversy now as much as it is, which was all about the conflict and associations about what the program would be through the Ministry of Education. However, in the end, when certain programmes have been accepted by the Ministry, I will say, it does not want to make clear to the Advocate General the completed and bought-out programmes of experimental health education and education for primary and secondary schools. And just in light of the Law on Gender Equality and its provisions, the Ombudsman has made quite significant remarks when it comes to the experimental health program offered by the Grosd Association. So to date, we can't really know if the Grosd Association has brought those programs into line with the attorney general's demands. And secondly, I'm deliberately taking the Ministry of Education for one more thing. And that is, namely, the national policy to promote gender equality has a series of measures that mainly relate to all the ministries that are obliged to implement these measures, because the national policy has just been adopted in this Chamber. And then, among other things, the Ministry of Education says that they are not a measure, i.e. the documents for applying the teaching standard, have not been applied, or have not been done because they think it is not necessary, because it is somewhere else in place. If they didn't think it was necessary, they should have said that before we adopted the National Policy to promote gender equality. In the end, I will conclude on the implementation of the National Policy, in fact through all state bodies and responsibilities of all state bodies, institutions, ministries for the implementation of the National Policy, and that is the role, I will now say these famous co-ordinators and co-ordinators by the ministries. In fact, gender equality policy, including the law itself, so its implementation is exactly and imagined and it is established to be implemented at all levels, through all institutions and in accordance with the law, coordinators are also determined. We support the efforts and demands of the Advocate General for Gender Equality that, in the design of the new Law on Gender Equality, the appointment and powers that these coordinators have, since, among other things, it is said that state bodies are required in all phases of planning, making and implementing a decision or action, to evaluate and evaluate the effects of and evaluate the decisions or actions on the position of women and men in order to achieve the actual equality of women and men. Among other things, co-ordinators and coordinators are named with that purpose. I would very much like to know if they even know what to do when it comes to this provision of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8238	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs. We'll stop now and continue at 3:00. The first is Mrs. Carmela Caparin, then Goran Beus Richembergh on behalf of his clubs, and so on. And secondly, I'd like to say that we'll probably start voting tomorrow at 12 o'clock because we didn't vote last week, so we'll start at 12 o'clock most likely and go back to those agenda points that now have a condition, and yesterday they didn't have, so we skipped them. So, here, if we're operational enough tomorrow, we could end tomorrow's Parliament session at the usual time. Here, I'd like the clubs to inform the club presidents about it so we can have a quorum for tomorrow's 12 o'clock vote. Here, thank you and sweetness all.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8239	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We continue with the session and the debate on the report on the work of the Advocate General for Gender Equality in 2007. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Ms. Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8240	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Madam Attorney, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community Club discussed this report on the work of the Advocate General for Gender Equality for 2007. From the entire debate, we conclude that we accept this report with several remarks to be made. In this House, we have adopted many laws relating to gender equality from the Law on Gender Equality, which lays down general grounds for the protection and promotion of gender equality, as the fundamental values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia, which defines and determines how to protect against discrimination based on sex and create equal opportunities for women and men, changes and changes to the Labour Act, and others with the adoption of county commissions. Coordinators for gender equality in state administration offices have been appointed and we expect consistent application of the law in practice, creating equal opportunities for both sexes in political, economic, social, educational and all other areas of social life. However, the report itself shows that there is not enough implementation of all these laws as well as national policies to promote gender equality, and that is one example for you. In Karlovac, one association conducted studies on a thousand respondents, 97% do not know that there are county commissions, so the county-level commissions. In the structure of the complaint, a few more cases were processed compared to last year, 268 as opposed to 2006. 193 and such a small number and it is difficult to draw conclusions, however, 64% of cases have been damaged by women who tend to complain. After handling complaints, the lawyer gave 50-one warning, 2006. 49, 43 recommendations, 2006. 55 and 46 proposals, as the report said, say 283% higher than in 2006 and then there were 12 proposals. So the percentages are relative. However, what members of the Croatian Democratic Community Club in that part noticed is that the number of cases is somewhat more but not significant than last year, and they think that it is because of the lack of those three employees where we saw in last year's debate on the report that we did not know whether or not it was "mobing", mostly those three employees think they are wrong today, so we ask you to inform the Parliament whether they are or whether there are no employees in your office. It is worrying about the data relating to the field of work and employment where it is mentioned about the illegal conclusion of a work contract for a certain time, illegal overtime, illegal dismissal, prevention of promotion at work, professional training, transfer to less paid employment. In addition to all these irregularities in the report, the report stresses the fear of applying for loss of work, changing the situation at work or other consequences that may arise, discomfort and shame in cases of sexual harassment, the lack of knowledge of their rights and the possibility of protecting those rights and the lack of judicial practice in cases of discrimination. We believe that if there is no practice then there is probably knowledge of gender equality legislation. We need to sensitize women to discrimination based on sex at work and report it or report it. Then we believe that courts will have more experience and then we will be able to inform these women of the results of their applications. Employers continue to violate the rights of female workers, no new work contracts are offered for a certain period of time for pregnant women when they learn about their pregnancy, pregnant women cancel work contracts, workers move to another workplace after their return from maternity leave. Statistically, it is now clear that compared to the total number of unemployed who are 156 thousand 798 unemployed women or 61.6%. The largest number of unemployed women is in the age group between 50 and 54 years or 10%. So, annual plans to encourage employment in 2007 show positive shifts. However, an analysis of the employment of a special group of unemployed people where women are victims of violence employs only six women victims of violence. One of the problems is that women do not want to be identified as victims of violence, as noted by the Ombudsman, and this measure can also include the unemployed single mothers of young children. Research projects show a positive shift in access to Roma issues and Roma life problems and their inclusion in social processes in the Republic of Croatia. The Ombudsman took a positive note of the decommissioning of the salary compensation for the use of compulsory maternity leave where the compensation base was established at a monthly rate of more than 4 000 257 kuna 28 June. The decision is expected to have an impact on family planning and the success of population policy. There is still a low representation of women on boards. So in the twenty most successful companies according to the traffic achieved on the Zagreb Stock Exchange in the first half of 2007 there were 87% of men and 13% of women. The ad analysis of the lawyer's employment needs sent 325 warnings to state authorities, which is half as much as in 2006. About 444 competitions in 70% it was clear that people of both sexes can contact advertised places. In the ninth month of 2006, these ads were only 40%. It is interesting that health institutions are most in violation of the Law on Gender Equality related to a tender for employment, perhaps because most women work in the profession. In the national policy to promote gender equality from 2006 to 2010, it is an important place for women and health. In line with these praises, early detection of breast cancer and colon cancer is valuable. As far as domestic violence is concerned, we think there has been major progress in sensitizing the public and concrete measures. The increase in the number of reported, criminal and misdemeanor acts in the area of domestic violence suggests a positive shift. Women decide to report to the police exposure to domestic violence more often than in recent years. This has contributed to the adoption of a series of measures by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the National Strategy for Protection against Family Violence, the Protocol on Family Violence. The Ministry of Family and Intergenerational Solidarity has drawn up a series of amendments and additions to the law of the Criminal Law on Juvenile Courts, the Law on Police, the Law on the Protection of Child Violence in the Family, the Regulation on meeting the criteria necessary for the establishment and growth of a shelter for women and children of victims of domestic violence, the address book of all institutions has been printed, labels have been put on haste for judicial cases, the adoption of a programme of psychosocial treatment of perpetrators, the programme of empowerment of victims, the programme of employment of women victims of violence, etc. Police are hastily providing intervention for every report of violence and acting on protocol. Although there are some objections to police work in the report itself. In 2007, police received 17,000 848 requests, 6,000 131 people were detained, 7 thousand 301 were reported trespassing. So 13.8% more than in 2006. Judges also said 11000 92 protective measures. 1798 crimes have been recorded. The Croatian Democratic Community Club discussed how to improve the protection of victims of domestic violence and the prevention of new domestic violence, with awareness of domestic violence and adequate support for the protection of victims of violence. When you spoke, you often spoke in this report about the lack of police and the lack of a welfare center. Compared to the social care centre's treatment of improving the protection of victims of domestic violence and preventing new domestic violence, you say no new developments have been observed. Namely, there is not enough awareness of domestic violence and there is no adequate support and protection for victims of violence. I think we'll also see in the attorney general's report for children, who also looks back at welfare centres, so I believe we'll have one of the thematic sessions on the board, just about the work of the welfare center. Because we know that they have 150 activities in their environment and how many families they include and even whether they are qualified for what we ask of the welfare center. Perhaps it would be good for you to also specify in the report this about the lack of police and the lack of a social care center. The analysis of textbooks is a national priority to introducing further sensitive education in curricula and programmes with the removal of sexual stereotypes, Article 3. The Law on textbooks has prescribed that such use of textbooks will not be approved. The training standard prescribes support, respect for gender equality, using the names of both genders, especially in the mention of calling and occupation, without damaging the nature of Croatian language, and preparing both genders for equal participation in all areas of life. As the legal provisions in gender equality are implemented in the media, we are day-to-day witnesses. However, the Ombudsman shall monitor the implementation of the legal provisions and other rules at national level relating to the promotion of awareness of women, men and the prohibition of public representation and representation of women and men in an offensive, demeaning and humiliating manner that is very well seen from its apparition. However, here recently, a humiliating relationship with women is just recently, we were saying in the Parliament that beer is food, but on this, on this label on the bottle of a beer, Tuborg beer, it says it was produced to provide the most fun. The top corner says, take off and turn, and the question is, you like the waitress. When I turn around, it's easy at least, order another tour of Tuborg Green and suggest he take a breath at your table. So it can't be any more humiliating than this sign on one bottle of beer. So I'd like to ask the authorities to run something anyway and get this off those beer bottles. In national policy to promote gender equality from 2000 to 2010, chapter 4, the equality in the decision-making process, i.e. balanced participation of women and men in political and public decision-making, all the report's data show that the candidate lists did not lead to the principle of gender equality which we can conclude and the presence of women in this House, where the percentage is worse than in the previous term, is 21% of women in the Assembly. The new Law on Gender Equality, new provisions for maternity leave, will likely contribute to further gender equality and create equal opportunities for women and men. The report is indeed extensive, in many segments there are violations of gender equality, violations of women's rights and, in part, men, and I believe that there will then be more women in this House when this Law on Gender Equality is consistently respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8241	HNS Club, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8242	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club, therefore, we can announce that we will support the adoption of this report by highly esteeming the efforts behind it, primarily the lawyers themselves for gender equality. But unlike my colleague Caparin, I'm not going to advertise beer today, I'm going to advertise books. So I'm going to warn you that these days you've received two large books, so it's also easier to read them, and they're directly related to understanding the problem of gender inequality. One of them is actually research, called "women in Croatian Politics", and the other is one study, an extremely valuable study written by Master Goran Selanec, which actually analyses Croatian legislation from the area, from the aspect of actually assessing gender labour. As far as this research is concerned, which I think is very important because it reminds us of a very important element that the attorney also constantly mentions. It is not only a fact of segregation and discrimination in employment, but also subjective fear in women who are growing more and more, fear that these kinds of segregation and discrimination in employment are the most colored. So, on the one hand, the fact that it's on the other hand it's a disturbing element where there's a growing fear of segregation in that area. The second element particularly highlighted by this report, and this analysis of this research is also the sub-representation of women in politics. I would say generally in public affairs, although in many services gender relations, gender representation is quite good. But what is particularly important is an analysis of the so-called “decision making” places. So, people who act special, responsible responsibilities. If you really want people who include the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interests, which explicits the public officials, and then we can especially talk about the results of the elections. As far as the election is concerned, it is certainly difficult to achieve adequate representation in addition to the sex quota or birth quota. Because political parties approach this problem at different levels in a different way. This also applies to elections for the Council of National Minorities where there are no political parties but are mainly behind candidates and candidates of the Association of Citizens, the Association of National Minorities or a group of citizens who support independent candidates. There is so much heterogeneity of interest that it is difficult to expect, apart from the introduction of quotas, even with a very intense education, the awareness that this level of consciousness will rise quickly. But what is possible is the issue of gender representation in public services. Because it's not a question of choice. It's a matter of appointment. It is a matter of policy and commitment of a particular public service. This analysis of Croatian legislation, and above all three key laws – is about the Law on Gender Equality, the Law on Labour and the Law on Mandatory Relations is a comparative character and compares our legislation with the legal regulations of the European Union and unfortunately proves that neither of the two broadly accepted items, assumptions. The first is that the Croatian legal framework for the protection of gender equality is in principle a good legal solution that guarantees gender equality. And secondly, that the regulations of the Republic of Croatia on gender equality in the labour market are broadly in line with the legal acquis of the European Union, by which the Republic of Croatia has well met its obligations of harmonisation in the field of gender equality in the labour market. It would be good if we, as representatives in the Croatian Parliament who pass the law, studied this analysis well, which shows, unfortunately, that none of the other claims stand, however much we beat ourselves up about it. What I would particularly like to point out as an alarming situation in this report is chapter 43, where the attorney is quite nice in words, and it seems to me even too careful to convince me of this incredibly boastful attitude of the Ministry of Science and Education towards her office. Look at the few dates, the dates of the correspondence, and of course it's about the introduction of experimental programs of health education and education for secondary schools. It's from page 106 to page 110. As you go to the end of this text, you see the dramatic situation increasing, where the advocate for gender equality offers all the office's capacities, to revise and offer solutions that will be neither discriminatory nor segregative in experimental programmes, and where the ministry practically avoids that kind of assistance even though it is an obligation. So see page 109 and 110, how the Ministry of Science and Education acted from 30 October to 26 November despite letters, rushes, warnings, practically requests. By ignoring the Office for Gender Equality, i.e. the Advocate General, I apologize, what it wanted and this report shows that by the end of 2007, the ministry had not delivered any of the allegedly completed and purchased experimental health education and education programmes for primary and secondary schools. Whether to say, or repeat, the fact that experimental programs are already being implemented. It is amazing that the Ministry of Education or any other ministry that must first do everything possible to fulfil legal obligations in a 100% capacity when it comes to any law. It does not respond to well-intentioned, and then by law prescribed by the Ombudsman that in such a legal one, in these texts that go directly into the education system, it must be intervened. Mrs. Šolić, I may have turned off the topic, but if for you to turn away from the topic that the lawyer for gender equality insists that gender equality be truly respected in experimental programs, and the government of which you make a parliamentary majority, it ignores, then I really don't know what the topic is. But I won't mention Milan Bandic, so I hope you won't be able to replicate it for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8243	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Madam Representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8244	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to correct the quote of a colleague who said I advertised beer. Well, I'm sorry a colleague like one didn't realize what I was going to say. Namely, sir, that beer says it was manufactured to give the most fun and it's still questionable, it says nice: "Do you like the waitress? Take off and turn." And when you turn away and say, "Propose him to take a breath at your table." Well, you as a man should have reacted first if you bought a beer like this and read it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8245	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Madam Representative Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8246	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Representative injured Rules of Procedure of Article 209 and simply attacked me from a pay phone, as an advocate, and in fact violated the Law on Gender Equality. And at the same time he defends the Law on Gender Equality, and at the same time he violates it because he inappropriately attacked me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8247	It's an HSS rep club. Ms. Representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8248	Mr. Vice President, Madam Attorney, MPs and deputies. The president is the founder of the leading men's clothing sales company in the United States, recently surprised shareholders with the conclusion that it's not all about the profit. It is one of his ideas about what companies should rest on, and it generates an annual gross income of 1.4 billion dollars, leading to service. He believes that the rules were set thousands of years ago, as it did to others, which he would have wanted others to do to you today both modern and applicable. All of this shows that life is much simpler when we observe it in reality and when we bring it down to simple rules of mutual love and mutual respect. But if it were just an ideal, a step out of rare individuals, we are told by numerous examples of life filled with newspaper columns, which point to a lack of respect and consistent endangerment of fundamental human rights. Usual people could judge whether Britney Spears was a junkie or just a victim of an old system. Is she good, bad, or no mother, and whether she should be given access to the children at all? Direct transmission and repeated repetition of the scene of her being escorted to a hospital at TV stations and in all other media outlets the world has visited. The paramedics put her under her arm, the police secured the place where she lived, the press stuck to the ambulance and followed her day and night. Not only the nation, but the whole world had a chance to get horrified and start grades. And so for weeks, he's been spilling dirty laundry and similar intimate equipment. That Croatia is not excluded from similar events in recent days, we have been witnesses, with the entire Croatian public becoming a jury, judging who is guilty and who is innocent in the case of editors of one week and his wife. The unhappy wife exposed herself to an activist’s help, not much less an ugly atmosphere. Instead of taking her to a secret address, to a safe place to protect her from the possible attack of an angry and powerful husband and to find her a lawyer, they took her to a press conference in their narrow interests and thus did her a bear favor. That husbands sometimes get rid of their wives by declaring them crazy, the same as they were, and remaining the usual practice of totalitarian regimes where unorthodox, but dangerous people simply put them in a nuthouse, is nothing new. That some men walk with guns behind their belts, when they're willing to use them when they think they're supposed to, that doesn't come as a surprise either. That almost as a rule, if they're rich and famous, but if they're not, they have a mistress and wife on tranquilizer pills, it's become a common practice. And then it inevitably ends with domestic violence and human rights endangerment. The report by the Advocate General's Office for Gender Equality in 2007 was attached to that finding, which received 268 new cases, or 30% more than a year earlier, and most of them related to domestic violence. I don't believe in that "who fights, who loves each other" thing because love and respect are shown in a different way. The HSS Club will support this report, but we are also asking for concrete actions from the competent state services to move forward with measures in Croatia aimed at domestic violence, especially in local areas because domestic violence has long ceased to be a private and social problem. We also advocate strengthening the prevention system like the psychosocial treatment of a bully, which is very often lagging behind. Unfortunately, Croatia is still a wartime country with a large number of sick people, from alcoholism to PTSD, and we must be aware that this problem will not be solved so easily. For example, Americans have not fully solved this problem with Vietnamese fighters, and besides health care, many others should be involved. There are wide areas of vulnerability when it comes to gender equality, which are women in prison, raped women, young women who suffer from anorexia or bulimia, single mothers, women in the country, women with disabilities. We commend the lawyer's efforts for gender equality in solving the performances of accumulated problems, but the fact is that we will not see the desired results already included pro-active actions. A recent study of women in Croatian politics in which 571 questionnaires were collected also testify. When asked if the position of women has changed in the last four years since the last survey was conducted, 68.65% consider it the same. Asked whether women's status was better or worse compared to the 1990s showed that most respondents and subjects under the age of 40 consider the social situation of women to have improved in the democratic period. But the older the subjects, the more they feel that the position of women from the 1990 ’ s on the ground has deteriorated. This deterioration is seen in the field of employment, material status, health and social security. In addition to those subjects who believe that the situation of women has improved, they also notice it in the area of material status, then in education and division of family affairs. As the greatest discrimination, both men and women see the double burden of women. Men believe that the greatest forms of discrimination are abuse and an unequal position in employment. Women, however, believe that they are the most discriminated against on the labour market and that they have worse job opportunities. That there are also positive examples on the labour market when it comes to gender equality, says the recent award that Ericsson Niko Tesla was awarded for gender equality and promoting women's role in the IST industry in the Republic of Croatia and is also the holder of Ericsson's European Prize for Gender Equality. The company globally supports the protection and promotion of human rights, which includes this area by its participation in organisations such as initiatives, business leaders in the field of human rights. Their activities are concentrated on women's health care and help improve the social economic status of women. For these purposes, mobile telephony is used and widely explains access to the high-speed Internet. So, for example, an Australian operator... supports the government's mammographic examination program. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This programme offers a free overview of all women aged 50 to 69 every other year in rural parts of the Australian state of Victoria, which significantly reduces breast cancer mortality. This service ensures sending digital mammograms from 40 rural centres and 23 mobile locations across Victoria, radiologists, in city clinics that allow rapid diagnosis and possible medical assistance. I hope that such a proposal will soon be implemented in Croatia. And I think we can make a big contribution to everyone in our midst to open small gynecological hospitals, to equip with modern ultrasounds and thus allow women to be prevented. Because two women in Croatia die daily from breast cancer, and the same increase in uterus cancer and other forms of cancer has been observed. And certainly that through the activities carried out by the attorney's office and the department of directors, but we, as agents, can contribute to the state of the women's health in any case improves. The club of the representatives of the HSS will support the report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality in 2007, noting that we really expect the activity of all competent state services to be approached by emergency measures and that the situation in society when it comes to gender equality is improved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8249	IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8250	Your Honor, Mr. President, the esteemed attorney, the esteemed gentlemen of the council. Yes, as Mrs Petir said, this 2007 report is burdened with what happened in the Pukanic family in 2008. In that name, however, we will deal with another occasion. But what's the point, by analysis in the field of labour it turns out that in 2007, that's page 11, complaints about employment discrimination were referred to most men. Interesting but true. And now it throws one new light on the lawyer's gender equality list. Clearly, in a country where, primarily thanks to the economic moment and the inertness of the union where working is a rule for a certain time and for an indefinite exception, the most often clear pregnancy is tied to a violation of the Labour Act. That category of women, so pregnant, needs special protection. To be clear, no one is being discriminated against by sex, but because the employer thinks that a woman with a child will be a burden to him. A young child should be clearly cared for, there is maternity care, etc., but that is why the country and employers must especially stimulate women, clearly, pregnancy, or family, and unfortunately, or there will be more discrimination in this country. Each second, the third marriage falls apart, in 85% of cases, children are assigned to their mother, 85 to 90%, and perhaps even more today's work contracts are only for a certain time. And indeed, if we want to change something, we may need to change the legal solutions and what is equally important is to monitor such situations maximumly. On the other hand, the fact is, Croatia comes in some way into labour problems. And regardless of what we may be plowing into a stagnation in the time ahead, I say the biggest problem will be how to reach the worker. And so much now to say when it is employment, or when it comes to employment in segregation, discrimination, etc., is getting a little tense. We're going to be in trouble with the workforce, as it is today in the same, where, say, the cook can make a living at the Red Summit in the facilities... And 25 thousand kunas of monthly wages, and yet there is no laborer. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What's good, however, and it confirms these descriptions in these cases, mostly the attorney's interventions yield results, or let's give some results. Far more, let's say from the unions or some others. To be clear, the worker should be absolutely protected. And that must be our imperative. But it must also be protected by this small employer, meaning the one who creates everything alone, who has not participated in the conversion and who is often in a more difficult position and from the workers. Because if nothing else that little employer answers with all his assets, the other is responding with his work, and that little employer can expect nothing but an inspection, tax collectors, applications, and then pay for this, pay for that, etc. Here, through this topic of gender equality, I will rise up in defense of the dignity of these women who do, for example, these little entrepreneurship, who have opened themselves and others around them and created a job. They are today, I would dare say, perhaps the greatest victims of this Croatian transition and this moment. They have to take care of the company themselves, they have to take care of the workers, they have to take care of the pay, it's imperative, they have to take care of the children, they have to take care of their family. And while, for example, I don't know anyone who's come to the apartment for 4 or 5 thousand DEM, director to the factory, peasants coming to the country today, only those little craftsmen or craftsmen can't get to business space, say, owned by a city, a municipality, a state, etc. I claim it's discrimination against those people in relation to those I've listed. The truth in this report is on pages 31 to 32 about self-employment, about a programme of competitiveness, about women entrepreneurship, etc. But that someone in the county has something against women and that because of that sex, they can't go through and get a certain amount of funding, as we say here in this text suggests, it's absolutely not true. I just don't want to believe it. I don't think so. True, women did not receive funds, but not because women were not attractive enough. But be careful in 2007, 4.5 million kunas were allocated, and that concerned 877 demands. That means somewhere 5 grand and something kuna at one request. For 5 grand and some kuna at the end when you look at it it's not worth it or putting together, writing any kind of elaborate. As far as unemployment is concerned, Croatia has 254 000 484 unemployed according to this report, which means 2007. On the other hand, Croatia's biggest problem at the moment is labour. Croatia de facto has no labour force. That this is true also says this information on page 34 that in one year, the number of unemployed women dropped by 11.8% compared to 2006. The truth number is still at 61% compared to the unemployed or 61.6 although the truth works, realistically without income from those 254 thousand 484 people or people are not without income, that's what I'm convinced of. For example, in a Buzet where unemployment is 2% and where without 10% of people coming from the country and even from Slovenia to work on those premises, the economy would care and I argue that in those 2% of the unemployed, 1% of them are making revenue on the side that exceeds the incomes that would, for example, be paid by a company etc. If so in Istria, elsewhere I don't know that use of the system I claim, and far more often. What's the biggest problem is women who are unemployed between the ages of 50 and 60. That's a serious problem. As for women's membership in supervisory committees, it is said that in 20 of the most successful companies in the Zagreb Stock Exchange, you have 87% of men, 13% of women, it seems to me that this data is somewhat strained. He does not say God knows what, except that in the 1990s 100% of men participated in the conversion whether they were elected by those authorities or socialist directors who found themselves in those positions and now talk about these supervisory committees, about representation I don't know in the same, the minister's representative says it in some power of men, but the fact that, let's say today, I'm not going to exaggerate or 65% of women, these are meanings in this journalistic profession that kind of shape everyday life, and that's the truth on the other hand. If you keep in mind that power today is primarily in executive power, large capital, the media not in the Parliament, we are not here to be insulted, belittled and spit on us, to bribe us, then women are not so bad again, and after 5-6 years when children of today's tycoons are taken over by companies, then women will stand even better, or I'm talking about their successors now. They will have as the media is now controlled, a very fast and good share of the capital. But let's let go of these assumptions now, and I agree that a woman like the Istrians would say holds three cantons. I agree that violence should be punished, I agree that pregnancy, and maybe in Switzerland it is just like this. That pregnancy is a blessing, there must be no handicap for women to work with, but no one will tell me that this society is to this extent patriarchal that only women are victims, that it is just such segregation and discrimination at this point the government in the Republic of Croatia when it comes to gender equality. For example, page 60, according to sex, 14 thousand 409, a female or 65.03% of the total number of persons affected by domestic violence has been damaged. So 35% of men are victims of domestic violence. Perhaps the mostexposed case is the case of this couple spoken of by Mrs. Petir, but after the original media interest, perhaps this case should be dealt with more clearly by the institutions, and the public should monitor them so that no one is preferred or chicanned. What needs to be followed specifically are persons with disabilities. The fact is, they're girls, i.e. women exposed to multiple discrimination on this issue. Some things, for example. Page 117-118 that's what my predecessor from the HNS was talking about, in art-graphic equipment. I don't know what's there to prove. It says here that women are neglected because in the graphics contribution, the boy appears in 213 characters, and the girl in 107 icons, and on the other hand you say that in 36 textbooks for 5, 6, 7 and 8 classes 49 is author or 83% and 10 authors, meaning men or 17%. I don't think we should go too far and that when it comes to that maybe that ball should go down on the ground. You even deal with the family condition of characters in our textbooks. Well, logically, it should be like, that the most drowned on the side of 124 children with families are 62% and then the marriage community, etc. So we will not be burdening our children at that age with same sex communities that the notes in the Republic of Croatia are not discriminated against and clearly should not be, but their sometimes media aggression unnecessarily draw attention to themselves. In 2008 I argue that this is still less noticeable because there were elections in 2007. But what am I saying? So from our textbooks, it's hard to discern women's discrimination as prescribed by, say, the United Nations Convention. I think that convention still applies to something else. In political parties, and what we're going to do, it's what it is, but again, there's no way to talk about this discrimination. If we want to avoid any discrimination, I think we should introduce something else, direct elections for MPs, as will be the case for the mayor, mayor, mayor or as it has always been in the election of the President of the Republic. Well, then, the MPs are either elected in their election units, so let's see whose mother black fleeces. But I'm afraid that neither big party will, although I want to believe that the citizens would want it very much, so perhaps that ratio between men and women in the Croatian Parliament would change radically. There are 20.9% of women in Parliament, 79.1% of men, but I still don't think that women here are cut off. I say that the most just electoral system, where there would certainly be no discrimination, would be the one if MPs were elected directly. When we talk, let's say about judges, we see that about 55 to 60% of judges, just as sure if not 70, 80% of women are teachers, so today they certainly prevail among doctors, etc. So, what I absolutely, there is no dilemma here, we will support this report, but what I particularly want to say is that you write the names of the Istrian municipalities in both Croatian and Italian, where their local statutes are foreseen. All in all, I think that as time escapes or promotes, so there are fewer gender imbalances in the Republic of Croatia as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8251	At 15.43, it was time to report a ten-minute hearing. Two corrections to incorrect allegations. Ms. Representative Sunday, Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8252	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm correcting Mr. Cain's false allegations that craftsmen and craftsmen in cities can't reach business spaces. The case of the city of Sibenik clearly testifies that sublegal acts are adapted to the promotion of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, especially traditional crafts where the growing share of women is in the circle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8253	And the second correction, Madam Representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8254	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. An incorrect quote is a colleague who says that the competitiveness programme rejected women's programmes probably because they were not good. Not a colleague because they weren't good, but because it's decided by men, and they were probably good, tells you that women are even with men in PhDs, that they've exceeded men in the master's department, and most of them get diplomas rather than men. So they're not educated, they're well educated, but they're still decided by men.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8255	Thank you very much. We're going to an individual debate, Madam Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8256	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Attorney, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here, on the basis of the complaints received, the Ombudsman actually followed the implementation of the Law on Gender Equality and the violation of the principle of gender equality and this year for the fifth time. The report shows that we have an increase in complaints of 38.86%. As for damage to the damaged pages, women are 64.8% of cases, men 10.82% of cases. The basis of discrimination is sex in 89.18% of cases. The highest percentage of complaints refers to domestic violence, then employment, education, and harassment, etc. This whole report is too extensive, which, of course, points to a major problem. The report shows that the position of women on the labour market, that it hasn't changed much, still women are the highest, highest percentage among the unemployed, has been paid, so the Law on Gender Equality is being violated. The increase in women's participation in politics has not occurred either. Family violence is on the rise, but improvement in this regard is only in the protection of victims when this domestic violence occurs. Therefore, Madam Attorney-General commendation for your work, but of course it is impossible to fix all of this by warning, recommendation, opinion, which is, of course, the problem and all the other defenders in any action. I would actually look more at the big increase today, which is the biggest increase in gender equality, and that violence in the family. In 2007, according to the report, the Ombudsman received a number of complaints about domestic violence, which in one hand is worrying because there may be an increase in domestic violence, and on the other hand may be encouraging because it can indicate greater courage, awareness that violence really has to be reported or reported. But they're worried about some facts. For example. If violence is reported by women who have been in a relationship with a partner for less than three years, under the Family Law it is not considered an extramarital community, which means that violence is not sanctioned in the same way, which is absurd because violence is violence, regardless of what, or how long-term relationships it was. Furthermore, it has been found that a woman in fear of her own safety, in fact, did not report violence, which is also a major problem that needs to be solved, not only the Gender Equality Office, but also any other institution. All who can do something concrete should be run as soon as possible, i.e. it is essentially a matter of all of us who are in our local environments, who run offices or committees for gender equality. Well, let's just say, now we're with a union in Dubrovnik-Neretva County, we've agreed to have legal protection in union rooms, that we'll give legal protection to women who report. Violence in the family means a serious problem, and it needs to be, in fact, not easily approached. It is necessary to change the attitudes of those who carry out these tasks because their decision to intervene depends largely on their views on violence and victims more than on regulations. This is from this report I think you've read that you've seen absurd situations of conduct in some cases and social workers and police officers. The attitude has a cognitive component, and it has an emotional component and a motivational component. However, both emotional and motivational should be stronger than the first to be actually more effective work. I also think that there is a need to inform the public as much as possible in order to raise awareness of violence but of course the victims might know that they can still address an institution and in what way. In addition, education should be implemented not only to prevent violence but also to encourage early police intervention because it does not matter what stage of violence it comes into. In addition, we need to include in the procedures maximum police to make the victims feel safer. Victims should be treated in a better and more humane way and one of the main reasons is that not reporting violence does not allow victims to be adequately supported and protected by competent institutions and the police themselves, this is seen in individual reports. I'm not saying globally, but I've set aside some of the worse sides. It is also necessary to clearly define what is involved in the intervention because it often happens that police say there is nothing to intervene on and the indications of violence exist, for example, as threats to text messages that may be invalid to someone, but they can also be an indication that can lead to increasing violence. On average, as many as 78% of women are injured in domestic violence, we can ask ourselves why. Possible reasons are also the physical supremacy of men, traditions, then the tolerance of early signs of violence generally in society so that the bully gets a message that no one will do anything to him and he can continue. Therefore, education should be carried out and a clear response should be made to all forms of violence. So there's a problem in defining the concept of violence. It doesn't have to be just physical harassment, but it can be psychological and economical, and violence is all that's done against a person's will. And we can conclude that the problem of domestic violence remains unresolved. The Centre for Social Work estimates what a criminal act is, and we have the same thing in example reports, instead of acting by protocol rules, the protocol is done. Therefore, I think that the Attorney General should also more emphasize these aspects and encourage the need for a permanent education of all officials, police and judges, and welfare centres and actually seek their responsibility in the implementation of the protocol. I'd still mention something about the media. The lawyer responded to discrimination, in fact to media content, also to recommendations, proposals, etc. And young people are, in fact, increasingly exposed to violence in the media in shows where there is a huge gender imbalance in fact, and through such emissions very badly, they have a message about a woman as a desirable model of value. A friend recently broke my leg and was forced to be home. And she followed, otherwise she's a social worker, followed the films that were shown at the time. And then she said in all those movies there was so much aggression, men killed half the enemy. Life is shown opposite of ethical postulates, sex scenes without emotion, plenty of shootings, fun life. The woman is depicted as a asset. These are messages to young people about how to take advantage of leisure and how violence brings success in them. Furthermore, advertising on television also promotes sexual inequality, when a man prefers beer rather than a woman. A discredited wife's role is obviously more important than her, unfortunately. This kind of media treatment of women points to a major problem and can certainly encourage violence, and young people are instilled in false messages and encourages the demeaning of women and some social groups. Television has great potential in the formation of human consciousness, and there should be more and more work to do and point to that. And finally, in 2008, over 30,000 cases of domestic violence were recorded, showing an increasing increase in the number from the year. We wonder what happens to these families and their children, are they part of the statistics or are they really helped and supported? Who's gonna follow, who's doing it? And finally, do we all consider it a problem for those who have problems, or is that a problem for all of us? If our problem is then let us have these serious discussions as often and as often as possible, what is happening in society because there are no family courts in our society or at least departments that could professionally competently handle the proceedings in the area of Family Law, the Law on Protection against Family Violence, Penalty and Other Laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8257	Thank you. Mrs. Carmela Caparin's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8258	I'd like to rephrase your colleagues to what you say a man prefers beer than a woman. Well, he can pick beer and I don't know what else, but I'm asking him to read what he drinks and what it says on that beer, can't you like a waitress instead of this title? He can write a different ingredient of beer that doesn't suit him, maybe a quantity of alcohol. And when he turns that page around and tells that waitress to take a breath at his desk, then it's too scary and humiliating for every woman who finds herself in a restaurant like that and for a man who buys a beer like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8259	The answer to the replica of Mrs. Prosecution.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8260	I absolutely support you colleagues. And that was my remark about what's going on in the commercials. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8261	What kind of a wuss that might even think she's choosing between ladies. That's a dead end. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8262	Thank you. Dear Mr. Vice President, the esteemed lawyers for gender equality with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to draw attention at all in the way and methodological approach to this report that is commendable. Content also warns state institutions in all order what they should do to improve the level of equality and gender awareness in this regard in Croatia from year to year. However, I want to say something in general, but this also comes from the total of this report and results in men and women living in Croatia today in the 21st century in significantly different conditions. How women live their daily lives in relation to men, therefore, it is from such a position that they give birth to inequality both in the world of work and in profit and then in the protection of their rights, i.e. women's rights as human rights, but also political rights. I would especially like to draw attention to the very correct assembly of this report, which immediately in its beginnings gives and draws attention to what is important to women in the world of work and what happens to women then. It is from such a situation that this world of work and the position of a woman in the world of work is not ultimately talking about content, it speaks of what is important and most important, that without economic power no one can achieve their right, so there is also the Ombudsman for gender equality talking about exactly how important this segment is, something that is the most important of which both later and remaining rights and what often leads a woman to the fact that she is the victim of that economic impotence. And in general, I would like to say one note that the woman is still showing up today and we are not doing well if the woman is almost glorified by the position of the victim's wife. A woman is simply a victim, and all institutions must help women get out of the victim's position and take a proactive role. We can't keep boasting about how gender equality is achieved to the extent that if a woman is a victim of violence especially family, that here we have places to put her. It's not a solution. Don't wave your head because since 2000, it hasn't even been recognised that such a problem exists, and I'm glad we're all aware of this big problem today. However, we have been warned frequently, but here I do not recall these situations that those who speak at all about domestic violence are essentially endangering the Croatian family. Here, lucky those times are behind us, that we're aware of that one big problem. But I'm saying that this is the most important problem of all: the position of women in the world of work. This may also be best discussed by this latest survey of women in Croatia policy conducted by the Centre for Women's Studies, which speaks precisely about how you can still see from the latest data, or research from 2003, we have made progress in terms of the awareness of these and these problems. However, according to the survey, all respondents cite poor employment opportunities and progress at work as the most significant aspects of gender or sexual discrimination continue to be perceived by the main deteriorations in women's employment status and material status for equal pay, citing equal work as the most important female issue that all points to gender, sexual discrimination in the economic sphere as a place of increasing concern of subjects on their own. So this is one of the biggest problems, and then it's a little bit almost and immaterial to talk about the content of other rights to their own political rights. If we look at this report, then in the further text of that state institution that should first and foremost be concerned about implementing our fundamental law, the Law on Gender Equality sees that they have failed in many ways. But the biggest concern is precisely that those who should be promoters of such equality of which the institution first expects the highest engagement they have failed, and that is precisely the case with the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education. And that's something I say is seriously worrying about what my colleagues were talking about on behalf of the club before me. And here's to going back to something that's a disaster. Women's membership on boards, 20 of the most successful companies at work. In half, there were 87% of men and 13% of women in the first half of 2007. This is something that is alarming, and you see one Norway that has achieved absolute political equality at the level of total political correctness, which means that in all things, in Parliament, even at the local level, they have a full representation of 50% of men, 50% of women. But they saw for themselves even that it wasn't enough, because there might not be enough content and justification to do so. So, which was the result and the quota, so they took a step further, something that we might still have science fiction forcing private companies to, in their management, so on boards and boards, have 50% women, 50% men under threat of eradicating these companies from the register. Aware that they are building equality, the real achievement of human rights does not exist without economic rights. That's something Croatia is probably waiting for. So here's what you see when you look at a little bit of this display of scientific programs by groups and by sex, we're going to see catastrophic results, and it's once again tearing down that stereotype that they're the most chicanated, or neglected and discriminated women who don't have high education, semi-qualified or unqualified. Further equality goes to academic levels, even higher there, which we also need to pay special attention to. We thought here we saw here when we were talking about the role of the Ministry of Education we really thought that the picture of women in textbooks, so where children acquire and how children acquire first knowledge, this stereotype of how a woman is shown in our textbooks, we still have to say that it has improved significantly since the 1990s, but it is far from the necessary level. Here is this information, which the Ombudsman notes in his report, that men's interests are not only four times more numerous, but also more diverse, distributed by school supplies from the lowest to the highest, while women's occupations are very diverse, stereotyped and only with a few modern exceptions. So women, women's professions are mentioned only 4: ballerinas, millers, harvesters, and here's the lawyer, while men are the main characters. It is mentioned in 40 different professions, 50 times in the range involving astronauts, geologists, coachmen, captains of the ship, shepherds, traffickers, adventurers, fishermen, directors, soldiers, composers, athletes, engineers, builders, scientists, teachers, although it is known to all of us, primarily women's interest. So it's something that's still worrying and giving birth to stereotypes from the earliest age. Also, from the display of a table that is carefully produced, it is evident that the largest percentage of figures shown, so they are male characters, men, boys, while female characters are represented only as a percentage of 7. and 5% on the very beginning of the tables. Please, in percentages less than the percentage of which nature, animal or even objects are represented. It's in the textbooks, and if we still see the accompanying contents, work notes and manuals, then one percent is even more drastic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8263	Okay. Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8264	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8265	Please. Replica. Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8266	My colleague Ingrid rightly spoke about the need for economic rights, economic independence, etc. A woman, but there's one fact. So, when a woman enters the world of work, that world of work for her extends beyond working hours. This means that the world of work is no longer a world of joy, etc. It's a world where people are alienated and tortured, the pressure of staying, the struggle for their careers, to preserve their jobs. So this difficult world of work, if a woman gets into it, it stretches outside the world of work for her, that is, when she comes home, there's a whole world of work there too. Somewhere harsh theories would tell you that the world of freedom and free time is the space where you confirm yourself. In which you are in some way free. This area of freedom is for the average woman in our country very narrowed down to the man and I must say that in Croatia we often forget what kind of cultural pattern we belong to. It's a cultural pattern that on the one hand has a mother's cult, a traditional relationship of respect for a woman, but only if it's the most mother, the greatest symbol of that respect and relationships, and on the other hand there's one Tarzanic, I don't know what to call it, male consciousness. I Tarzan, you Jane, me male, you woman in which this Tarzan who defends in quotes is home etc. It also has its own desires that are male nature. I think that until we prevail in the cultural sense of this relationship, and in economic terms, unless we overcome the fact that the world of work extends to a woman outside of working time, and for men, it ends, that we will constantly reproduce a situation with which we are not satisfied.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8267	Replication response. Not Jane, Mrs. Ingrd Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8268	Here, colleague Marin Jurjevic, whom I know to work at home all these jobs, but we all know that they are rare men like our Marin Jurjevic. But because of that, and aware of such facts, we have also proposed as the SDP Club and legislative measures that would simply force, simply a male part of our citizens, especially fathers and family people to be more family people, in the sense that they share these jobs that counterpart Jurjevic was talking about when they came home. So to change the way of daily life for both men and women, so we also suggested male mandatory maternity leave. There are no politicians in Europe who do not go on compulsory maternity leave and that is something to praise. That's what they're proud of. At our place, unfortunately that's not the case. And something else I wanted to point out in particular, what my colleague Marin was saying about the cultural situation is the fact that even today, no matter what he does, a woman is viewed as a mother, so more glorifying her biological ability, so a woman is glorified as being a procreation, and less as being a creation, which she creates. And that's why, still because of such a starting point, it's hard to get involved in the world of work.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8269	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8270	Thank you. As my colleague Gordana Sobol has already announced, speaking on behalf of the SDP Club, this very important document will support this document. We will support this quality written report, not because it speaks about how gender equality is at an envious level in Croatia, but because what is in a true way without beauty and flattery speaks about how much patriarchal and unjust culture we still live in. I think that this is exactly how we should talk about it without beauty and fineness, and that's why my debate today will be without language hair and without self-control. The fact is that we humans are always the most sensitive to the problem that concerns us directly. The MPs and MPs in this regard are not at all exceptional and reluctant to speak out on their own behaviour and activities, although we will be very willing to talk critically about various phenomena in society. In this regard as a parliamentary representative and a new politician, but also advocate of the idea of radical feminism, particularly intrigued chapter 5 of this report. This chapter discusses how politics, or political parties, respect the Law on Gender Equality. Unfortunately, these several pages of the report suggest that Croatian politics cannot be proud of the way in which it respects and implements the laws itself. Let us begin with a way of not respecting the natively sensitive language of the congregation. Then we continue to respect the natively sensitive language in the legal proposals that the Government makes to the Parliament. Competitions involving public authorities authorities, statements of acceptance of the application for seats on the lists, which is only the beginning. Let's continue with the number of women in politics, especially the so-called. a high policy that can be very precisely measured by the number of parliamentary deputies, ministers, state secretary, director of administration or former assistants in the ministries, and the results are devastating. At this point, right now, as I say these words, we can all convince ourselves, if we compare the number of MPs and advocates in the benches around us. Although I come from the SDP, the party of a progressive political omen that manifests itself through the so-called so-called. The women's quota, which has the largest number of MPs in Parliament, 18 out of 56 or 31% cannot be satisfied with that percentage, which is unfortunately an unattainable figure for most other parliamentary parties. This also proves a miserly percentage of 21%, in fact less than 21% of MPs in the Assembly, which is unnecessary to say, significantly lags by 51% that women make in the total population of Croatia. And what the female side of life in Croatia looks like, at least in numbers,...at least statistically. At the beginning of the 21st century, women in Croatia make up half the population, living in smaller families than their mothers and grandmothers, are often determined to live on their own. A growing number of divorced women continue their lives by raising children on their own. Women in Croatia are increasingly educated, indicating a trend in women's share of higher education. This degree of education unfortunately does not overlap with success in the business career, which means that Croatia cannot boast with a large number of women in high or highest management positions. Women in Croatia usually work in so-called women's activities, education, trade, catering, processing industry, and this female sign is also manifested in women's political activity. This means that for women who are suffering from severe suffering and manage to break into politics, so-called. the female thematic that is reserved for them so-called. Women's thematic ghetto which we can be sure of if we analyze what these topics are of the parliamentary representative, but also state officials in the executive government are most concerned. This place is full of education, so-called Women's topics such as gender equality, health and social welfare, the entire policy area that can be undermined by a common denominator of care. Those serious big political issues such as economy and finance, foreign and internal policies, defences, so those areas where real political power lies are still, and it seems to be reserved for the boys in politics for a long time. As advocate of the idea of radical feminism which does not believe that it is possible to achieve society, gender or sexual equality without abolishing the patriarchal model of society that rests on a binary hierarchized structure myself, I believe that the only way to get to that end is systematic education. On persons who are actively and professionally involved in politics, which is exactly us, MPs and parliamentary representatives, lies the greatest responsibility in this process. This means that by example, by including a growing number of women, we must be leaders and leaders of these processes, and unfortunately this is not the case. In addition to this claim, he is forever talking about the very valuable research conducted by the Centre for Women's Studies in Zagreb in 2007 and concerning the perceptions and attitudes of Croatian citizens and citizens about political participation of women, which the Centre for Women's Studies is conducting ahead of parliamentary elections. Considering that research so-called. Public change plays a growing role in policymaking in Croatia, I really hope that the results of this survey will have a positive impact on the change of previously under-recognized policies. I will refer to several research data that suggest that Croatian voters, in particular voters, want more representation of women in parliament and high positions in public authorities. Nearly 50% of respondents believe there is discrimination between women in Croatia, and consequently there are obstacles to success in political life for women who decide to deal with politics. Most people feel that the main cause of these obstacles is the patriarchal worldview that governs Croatian society, then the double burden of women, i.e. women next to their careers are significantly more committed than men to the obligations and jobs in the family sphere. The cause of discrimination between subjects and subjects is seen in the prejudices of women. A large number of respondents believe that political parties do not encourage women to advance their political career, and as many as 72.5 respondents and respondents are not satisfied with the number of women who participate in Croatian political life. An even greater number of respondents and respondents to them are 74% not satisfied with the representation of women in the Parliament, and I repeat 22% today and 21% of women in Parliament are not a big miracle. As much as possible, and I hope that the political elite will now listen carefully, the survey has shown that as many as 63% of respondents and respondents would support 50% of women's representation in the Parliament. Even 56.8% of respondents believe that the increase in the number of women in politics would have a positive impact on the quality of politics, and probably because I believe most of all because of the work of SDP politicians, according to the opinion of the surveyed, the politicians are freer and more consistent in the implementation of political objectives. What we need in particular to be concerned, apart from the downfall of the number of parliamentary deputies, is that the research shows that in the last four years HDZ's rule has increased the percentage of respondents and respondents who notice the social obstacles that women have made it impossible to deal more actively with politics and have increased dissatisfaction with women's representation in Croatian politics. It is no wonder that in the past four and a few years, HDZ has been actively working on the consolidation of patriarchal dogmas and stereotypes that give women roles that are not related to public space, which is exactly the space of politics. Strengthening birth stereotypes is extremely dangerous because it is precisely the quasi of natural birth stereotypes that reflects the patriarchate or binary model of hierarchy in which I am better than the other. I stress that in the SDP, it is not our goal to deny the absence of differences but to live in a society that recognises the existence of differences between us, between people, but through respect and respect for these differences. Our goal is not to achieve gender equality in a society that rests on the logic of domination and is not to be masters of half the sky, half the country and half the power. Our goal is to live in a society without masters and mistresses. Some men are just gonna wave their hands at this and say, "The usual feminist garbage." It is known that what these women want is nothing more than to rule and be privileged. It's enough to see one feminist so you can understand everything. Yes, the fact that feminism in Croatia enjoys an extremely poor reputation, and even many modern and intelligent women with indignity reject the possibility of being considered feminists. Why? The answer to that question is quite simple because the concept of feministism is one of the widespread birth stereotypes in the expansion that we are involved in, at least some of us. Of course feminists are nothing but women's rights activists. Women who refuse to accept the patriarchal stereotypes to which they are so-called. real women, self-absorbed and withdrawn, emotional, timid, irrational, maternally caring, unambitious. According to that view, women do not agree to be intrusive and push themselves into the first plan, because those who are pushed into the first plan are not real women, they are males, climbers, unnatural babes and these birth stereotypes are so strong, unfortunately, that many women still think it is inappropriate to deal with politics. I hope most of us sitting in the Parliament today belong to so-called. political elites, they think so. I expect that this position will in the future be subject to a number of women on the lists of candidates, at the top of the list, and consequently by a number of women in the Assembly, at high posts in the executive and legislative power. It will be a sign that they have taken this report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality seriously rather than formally.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8271	Thank you. We also have one replica, the esteemed representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8272	Here, colleague Holly, perhaps it is no wonder that the existing imbalances of women and men in our society, in our country, when there is a woman, and the men in our home today are not even at the level of the cell, let alone at the level of the entire organism. Because the Ministry of Health refuses to pass a law on medically assisted insemination, thereby denying the possibility that men have had since 1978, of donating sex cells. That's one thing. So this particular ministry that I have already mentioned must be a promoter of this equality. It has become the greatest braker along with the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, which refuses to introduce sexual education, so much needed, in our schools to justify itself because there is no consensus. And please nicely, is there a consensus about math, is there a consensus about history? Well, I guess there are some things that kids at our school are learning about scientific truths. Back in the 1970s, children in kindergartens taught their mother not to bring or to bring their babies, but to give birth to their mothers. And we're afraid because there's got to be some kind of consensus. So we see where this, or such denial of this problem has led us, where the young become sexually or sexually burdened with numerous sexual illnesses, young marriages are infertile in a growing number, so as a nation that is dying out unfortunately, because more and more of them are dying, and less of them are being born, we need to take good care of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8273	Thank you. Let's move on to the debate. Dear representative Romana Jerkovic. She's gone. She's losing her right to argue. Then the esteemed representative of Brankica Crlenko. I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Madam Attorney, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I will look back in my debate on the problem of women's positions in rural areas. This year, however, the lawyer's report has nothing on the subject, but since last year it was an emphasis on that group of women, and in the meantime nothing has changed, I decided in my discussion to look back on the problem of women right in rural areas. To raise women's equality, i.e. to increase women's power in society, it takes at least two conditions: the economic independence of women and their appropriate representation in political life. The claims of sexual inequality in Croatian society are equally valid, if not in greater proportion to rural women. The position of women in the country in Croatia at the moment is not a desirable topic of scientific research, but it is not even an attractive topic for journalists. It is generally treated as a border topic in Croatian society. In Croatia, three decades have not explored the problems and challenges of women in the country, both farmers and all those living in the country. It could be said that the historical differences between the city and the village are most visible precisely in the position of women in the countryside and agriculture where its economic, social and cultural standards do not grow in proportion to its share in total production. The patriarchal system of family decision-making and the traditional division of male-female roles is still being managed in rural areas. Special research by rural women, but also by rural families in independent Croatia has not yet been done. There are only two of us, conditionally speaking, relevant data that give information in some way about the position of rural women throughout Croatia. The first talks about agricultural land by the sex of owners who say that only 14.4% of owners are women, while even 85.6% are men. When we talk about the problem of rural women, we'll all agree that most of these women work hard and hard. The other thing is that their work is not appreciated. Followed by small pensions, unpaid work, unemployment, health insurance. So, a rural woman does a lot of work, including heavy physical affairs, and she feels that her work is not appreciated as if she herself was not appreciated enough as a person. The village women have no place to recreate, socialize, no associations, no place to gather. In the rural environment everyone knows everyone and knows everything about everyone, which causes a sense of universal loss of autonomy and a high level of informal social control. We are not surprised by the small political representations of farmers and the rural population, as well as the neglect of caring for the needs of women. Due to high pressure from the patriarchal social environment, the economic and social emancipation of rural women remains insufficient. In rural communities, there is a permanent prevailing belief that an ideal woman is a good housewife, occupied by household. Working on the family economy makes women almost invisible. An ideal woman is considered a good housewife, nurse, working, honest, modest, effective, dedicated family, especially children, while the interests and needs of women are almost completely neglected. The legal status of women working on the family economy is also not regulated. They are unpaid labour, helping members, without the right to pension and health insurance. What is from all this to conclude, in general, about the position of women in the country? The work of women on the agricultural economy is often underrated, unrecognized, with a tendency to invisibility in everyday life, scientific research, statistics, and government programmes. The family concept of farming includes the unpaid work of women, they are forced to work on the holding due to insufficient job offers. In addition to engagement in the women's economy, they usually do their own household chores, and garden and garden work. Most women who run economies are widows with a small and low-productive economy. A rural woman can achieve social acceptance by proving hard work, commitment to the family and so on. illiteracy, insufficient general and special education problems are present precisely in this population. What can be done? How to empower rural women for greater influence in families and economies, local communities and higher levels of society? How do women achieve equality in the economic and social life of rural communities? How do you allow rural women to have economic independence which is a condition or first step towards their equality in the family to the economy and society? It would be necessary to include rural women in the rural development programme through individual counselling, education, lectures. Then continued monitoring of the situation of rural women through interdisciplinary research into women's conditions and positions. Encouraging rural women to organize and connect to NGOs. Conducting actions to raise the awareness of rural women, as well as awareness of men. The family in which the woman plays an increasingly important role is the main focus of rural development, and the restoration and development of the village will be unsuccessful without understanding, evaluation and affirmation of the importance of the rural woman. Therefore, it is welcome to welcome any additional incentive, encouragement and support for rural women in their organised action on the affirmation and progress of their place and roles in the economic, social and political life of their municipalities, cities, counties and the whole of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8275	Thank you. Dear representative Neda Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8276	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Attorney, Mr. Secretary and Madam and gentlemen, fellow MPs. The Law on Gender Equality lays down general grounds for the protection and promotion of gender equality as the fundamental values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia and defines and regulates the way against gender discrimination and the creation of equal opportunities for women and men. The 2007 prosecutor's report on gender equality shows that it was working to strengthen the anti-discrimination legislative framework as well as practices and the adoption of new anti-discrimination policies. But we still cannot be satisfied with the application of the Law on Gender Equality. It should be said immediately that, in connection with this report, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has tasked the resolution authorities or the competent authorities of the State Administration to take appropriate measures under its entire programme to remove irregularities listed in the report as well as through direct contact with the Advocate and in order to remove them as quickly as possible. Studies, polls and statistics still talk about gender-based discrimination and labour and employment, and reasons lie in the fact that discrimination is rarely reported. It is accompanied by fear of losing work or worsening of job positions, feelings of shame in cases of sexual harassment and the like. According to complaints received and filed by most women, discrimination is present in the public sector, including state bodies as well as in the private sector. In particular, it is necessary to pay particular attention to policies relating to violation of the right to protect motherhood, and it is injured when the employer finds out that his employee is pregnant, pregnant women illegally cancel work contracts indefinitely, move them to other jobs after returning from maternity leave and so on. Discrimination starts already in employment, or in advertising itself, but it is encouraging that the Ombudsman did not receive any complaints during 2007 that would indicate the inequality of the salary from which we can conclude that the legislative framework is satisfactory even though it needs to be strengthened through prevention, prevention and halting discrimination. The annual plan based on the National Employment Action Plan is a significant contribution and a reduction in women's unemployment, with a share of 51.2% of women employed in the total number of employees during 2007. In target groups, unemployed single parents of underage children and women victims of violence are employed only women. The operational plan to encourage small and medium-sized entrepreneurship for 2007 developed by the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship should be highlighted here, with measures aimed at fostering employment growth and self-employment, strengthening competitiveness, export protection and balanced development of the Republic of Croatia. In particular, a prominent programme for entrepreneurship of targeted groups, a project for women entrepreneurship aimed at greater involvement of women in entrepreneurship, and we have a result at the end of 2007 for 11.8% less unemployed women than in December 2006. With the co-financing of the employment of special groups of unemployed persons, women victims of violence are involved, so we are braved even though it does not satisfy that six such women have been employed in the past year. Deliminating maternity benefits for the first six months of maternity leave is certainly a positive legal change that strengthens not only the status of a woman in a modern democratic society but also makes a significant contribution to the overall national population policy in which the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity have made great efforts. And not only the effort but the sensitivity to this national problem. There is also a positive shift in the approach to Roma problems and the life problems of Roma and their problems they face daily and which are actually involved in social processes in the Republic of Croatia. During 2007, in 325 cases, the Ombudsman warned the public authorities, local and regional self-government bodies, educational institutions and other legal and natural persons of failures when it is necessary to make clear that a person of both sexes should contact the advertising workplace, i.e. when both sexes may occur, especially when feedback is considered more valuable, more patient, workers who are more patient and know. It is necessary to say that this provision applies significantly better in practice than in recent years. However, the work aspect is also sensitive and trade unions, and the number of collective agreements promoting gender equality and the fact that the State Inspectorate is very good at informing both parties and state bodies about the possibility of protection in cases of discrimination at work. The Chapter of Women and Health in the National Policy for the Promotion of Gender Equality from 2006 to 2010 has been drawn up a wide range of measures from the creation of a triage programme and the register of risk groups in the female population with monitoring and free checks, printing and distribution, early detection of breast cancer publications, through a comprehensive humanisation programme, through the implementation of the National Early Disclosure Programme of Breast Cancer and in order to sensitize the public and encourage women to care for early detection of diseases, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has made a decision to declare the 7th October National Day of Combating Breast Cancer Cancer. Furthermore, efforts made by the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity as well as the Ministry of Interior have been made to protect victims of violence have clearly contributed to the protection that improvements are obvious and visible. The good conduct of both police and welfare centres and in accordance with the protocol, legislation is being increasingly decided and consistent and complemented and public sensitivity on the issue is growing, thanks to both the media and civil society as well as state bodies through a national campaign to combat domestic violence. On 14 September 2006, the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of the Family Mrs Kosor sent a letter to all local and regional self-government authorities and 140 recommendations before the start of the official Council of Europe campaign, which should be done. I see that time is running out for me, so I will just say what other contributions are made to the changes and additions and the application of the new Family Law on not only maternity benefits but also those parents who do not respect their obligations in keeping with the child’s support entrusted to him for further care and care and care, that is, education and education. And, of course, it is necessary to further highlight and welcome the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Croatia through the adoption and implementation of more important documents such as the law that will make it impossible for persons already registered for criminal offences and when it comes to their obligations to young children. Media recognition and an unstereotyped report on domestic violence is extremely important in promoting the public of the problem of domestic violence. In the end, I support this report by the Advocate General for Gender Equality for 2007. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8277	Thank you. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8278	Well, my colleague Klaric apostrophe of a measure that is certainly positive, and which the lawyer mentions in her report, is an increase in maternity benefits, but also here, it has finally brought fruit and adoption of the Law on the delimination of maternity benefits that we have been pushing in the SDP club for the past few years. It was finally adopted and in this way society admitted that it did not actually punish a woman who worked and who went into labor. However, I would particularly like to point out that a woman, and you will certainly agree with that, has paid the biggest tribute of these transitional times and today is paid because other than these maternity benefits to be actively involved in the world of work, to help it be a help and a family, which is something that is what Croatian society in all of the nearly environments suffers from the lack of these accompanying social content that will make life easier for families, especially young families, and in their own case, women and children's kindergartens, and also homes for older and powerless because we know, unfortunately, that we care about both children and elderly parents, and both partners usually belong to women. And that's something you need to do. Well, here you are, also calling yourself in this presentation and on a valuable guide from Mrs. Kosor, so please, if you are able and here you are from this pay phone to draw attention. It would significantly improve the life of young families and the life of women if such a recommendation but also a material pulse went in that direction but we also have one defeated picture here in our local environment in Zadar County where all men headed with the mayor are all members of the headship, all of them in a row of men. It's sad to see, almost as if it's war chiefship and not the headship of a county that should be and promoter here's the Croatian progress.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8279	Thank you. Dear representative Biserka Vranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8280	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Madam Attorney for Gender Equality. Given this 2007 report, it is evident that you have really done a very large job, you have presented it all here very transparently and clearly and in fact, by this document you have shown all the misery and all the misery of our society and the state of equality in our society at all. At this job you do you need to thank yourself because it really is neither pleasant nor simple, and what is the worst thing of it all does not bring either results after five, ten or more years of work. In fact, we are witnessing that the year-to-year objection is growing more and more but not because the situation is getting better in society but because most people who are considered to be their rights are either, whether it's men or women who are threatened realize that they have some rights. They didn't even know until now that there were these rights and that what was done to them was not normal. Unfortunately, many of the environments in Croatia still have these problems that we are facing and which we have here specifically considered to be part of our folklore and that it will take a long time to eradicate, because if we go back to the area of Scandinavian countries that have truly addressed gender equality in an appropriate way and that ultimately we are trying to see that it will take generations and generations for children and for all of us who live in that society to be respected in that direction, that there are certain parts of society that are more or less endangered and that we must actually, in order to live normally, respect each other. However, in order to achieve such an area at all and to regulate that area, it is not enough to have an ideal legal regulation that we can even say we have. I don't have a problem with legal regulations, I don't have a problem with language norms, but we can also tolerate it here in the Parliament, for example. Call for a committee, so it's written Mr. Biserka Vranic or the chairman of the Milanka Opačić board, but I haven't seen it say anything, let's say I don't know, Mrs. Arsen Bauk. It means that such a situation would probably happen, but it's already normal for us, and we think it takes time for such things to happen and for them to be a normal phenomenon in writing, oral, or other communication. What I think is important in this country to do something about equality, I think that the political will that we have in part is important, we're going to that part, but it's a more important and financial possibility. If we said long ago that actually the real state is a condition, is every good for man and condition, and also the condition of every good, then we need to understand that the condition for equality is any economic independence. Without economic independence, there is no equality. In the light of this report, it is also evident that poverty, ignorance, education, and lack of living space are ultimately linked to the violation of rights. If a person has a job, has an apartment, has certain knowledge of what its rights are, then he will certainly not be in an unequal position and will know how to fight for himself. However, we have this particular problem that has, in some way, strengthened and war, so it has brought us into one state to start over, this is the beginning that other countries have already been through and it has taken them ten years to redecorate the situation in that field. Therefore, we do not need to be burdened with the fact that a woman or men appear in the video so many times, whether a boy and a girl appear in textbooks so many times, whether someone is wrongly referred to. I don't think that's the point. Our main problem is to create conditions for the development of equality, and these conditions can only be obtained by economic independence, job creation and the resolution of a targeted solution to this problem. We're not in the same situation here. Some environments are working on it today and have already taken a major step, but some other environments simply do not have these opportunities, so in this field they do not have some results to expect. So this body must actually start thinking in a way that we begin to create conditions for this kind of normal form of state, to develop rights, to raise children so that today it's not something new to them or that we have to legally condition it, and certainly that it would help and speed up the situation and the fact that sanctions would be imposed specifically or monetaryally or some other person who actually can say multiple times or constantly violate such, certain provisions of the law. Without that, we will do nothing and your good will and your office's efforts to work on this problem will be in the minority, in fact, or will come to the pleas, the suggestions, the requests, the prayers, the something that will not actually give concrete results and the party that will address you will still be in a worse position than it was when it comes to the office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8281	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Boris Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8282	Dear Mr. Vice President, the esteemed attorneys, colleagues and colleagues. I mean, I have to, or else I didn't mean to talk about this subject, but I need to correct you, Comrade Vranic. I mean, the first sentence you said when you started your debate is actually very surprising. You're saying this document shows all the misery of our society. Well, I think you've made one sentence that would be good to withdraw, since I'm going to correct you. This document actually speaks of the lawyer's report on gender equality, and how much I know gender equality is the fundamental value of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia, so ultimately your first sentence has nothing to do with the subject that we are now discussing, or with the content that we have in front of us at this agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8283	Thank you. And we have one replica, the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8284	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I see the subject is quite interesting, since it's obviously quite dangerous to be around to not mention us as Miss or Mrs Arsena Bauka. I think that this topic in 20 or 30 years will be exactly the other way around, that in this room at least on our side I will be sitting more men in the hall and talking about the equality of men in relation to women, given the number of our citizens who finish colleges, the number of citizens and their share in the number of people with high professional qualifications, and I think that these trends in the future, now I don't know if I've got exactly 20 or 30 years straight, but I think we're moving towards gender equality, or gender equality. And as for this anecdotes, about it to the ladies or gentlemen on official documents, I remember one anecdotes from the last system, then it was known to come to you for another, then someone forgets to put that -- the line, the name, the man, it doesn't matter, but I've seen such things, so I'm not saying that there was, of course, a better gender equality at the time, but there was that.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8285	Thank you. No response to the anecdote. Let's move on. And distinguished representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8286	Dear Mr. Vice President, the esteemed lawyers for gender equality, colleagues and fellow MPs. I will limit my brief discussion to only one chapter of this truly thorough report, so on a chapter on political parties, that is, women's representation in relation to men in representative and executive bodies at all levels. In fact, equality in decision-making is a key assumption for improving the overall position of women, i.e. for gender equality as a civil value. Many have mentioned this before me included also in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Under the National Policy Programme to promote gender equality from 2006 to 2010, a balanced representation of men and women in representative and executive authorities at all levels of political decision-making should be achieved. What is the situation on the ground in terms of women's participation in decision-making bodies? The participation of women in representative, and even more so in executive bodies is falling towards lower levels. This specifically means that the highest percentage of women's representation in representative bodies is at national level and the smallest is at local level. To back that up, and the data. The share of women in the Croatian Parliament has already heard 21.9% today. There's about 16% of the county councils. In city councils, 15.7%, and in municipal councils, only 8.4%. In Croatia, we have dozens of municipal councils and chieftains without a single woman and, unfortunately, through several mandates. How it is possible to talk in such environments about changing the position of women when they are socially invisible, when they have nothing to do with it, and right in the local environments real problems of everyday life are solved from the accommodation of children in kindergarten or older people in homes for powerless persons until employment as a primary existential problem. When it comes to past parliamentary elections, it should be said that 29.9% of women were nominated for the 258 electoral lists in 12 constituencies, with only 14.2% of women holding lists. Only two women, or 5.1% of them, were selected from the bearer of the list. So in the 6th meeting of the Croatian Parliament that counts we know 153 MPs we have 32 women. It is 21.9% which is less representation than in the 5th session, and this reduction in me is actually a splash of Croatian democracy. For the election process itself, some minor under quotes of "small technical details" are interesting in the observations of the Ombudsman in this report. Namely, the forms used during the election of MPs and MPs were written exclusively in the male race. Even in the forms related to the bodies implementing the election of representatives, i.e. representatives in the Croatian Assembly and the lists of members, i.e. members and presidents and vice-presidents, or the deputy members were not introduced. This really doesn't need any comment. What is the representation of women in Parliament by parliamentary parties? The HDZ has 12 women or 18% of the party's 66 representatives. The SDP has 18 women or 32% of all 56 MPs. The HNS has 1 wife or 17% of the total 6 MPs. There's so much HSS. The other parliamentary parties have no knowledge of this woman among their MPs. From this data, it is clear that the low proportion of women in the 6th meeting of the Croatian Parliament is determined by the low representation of women in the parliamentary party with the highest number of mandates won. Here's some more interesting stuff. There are only four young women in the current assembly. So these are our women under 30, with the SDP 3 and one of them being HDZ. Only one party ran over 30% of women. It's SDP. Four electoral lists of parliamentary parties did not have a single woman running at all. And only one electoral unit, which is the narrow centre of Zagreb with part of the suburban towns, approached 40% of the women on the lists and most parliamentary parties put the woman first in the constituency. And just one very brief conclusion. A proportionate electoral system with closed electoral lists such as Croatia, the responsibility for representing certain groups of society, shifts to political parties, and only they can change the poor representation of women in Parliament. Unfortunately, an analysis of the past parliamentary elections shows that political parties generally do not show too much readiness to increase the number of women on the lists and that, as an alibi, they point out that women are insufficiently involved in politics. So the result is clouded. And that the issue of gender equality still remains, that, in fact, the issue of the party's gender equality, unfortunately, is still being dealt with declared and very conservatively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8287	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8288	Mr. President, excuse me, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, I listened to our colleague's presentation, and I must say that I agree with her finding that women's participation in politics is desirable both at local level, regional level, and I should say to this top policy. However, it is not the only policy area in which any woman, or men, can be proven. So, Mr. Bauk mentioned, it's about this, that in 20, 30 years, there's going to be a change in the ratio of God and where luck is coming from. But look, for example, at today's Veterinary Faculty, Medical Faculty, Veterinary Special, which was almost 90% to say under quotes "male". Today the situation is almost reversed. So the time is coming, and so is what Cain said the situation is getting better and better than, let me say, gender equality.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8289	Thank you. And another replica of the esteemed representative, Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8290	Mr. Vice President, Madam Attorney-General of my colleagues and colleagues. Well, I'm using this replica institution to break this one up a little bit, I'd say monotony, but I'm not one to drink beer. But what I'm saying is, I was offered a debate by a colleague of these 8.4% in community councils, and she said that women are, in principle, related to rural environments and colleagues, you said that women are socially invisible. I'd say they're very visible in the country, because the woman's a guard at home. We must say that the pillar of this society is family and in that part that it is very responsible for that part. I believe that this rebirth of the village, etc., will certainly help in that part and in that part I believe that in this way the woman will make a contribution in other segments to this society, not only in this High House, and elsewhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8291	Thank you. Replication response, esteemed...... I'm sorry, I've already started talking. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] When it's your turn. Honorable representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8292	Thank you very much, Vice President. I believe, colleague, that your wives, our women in rural areas, would be very happy to trade those three corners in the house for one outside the house. So to be equal. Three men, same as women. In the house, and two out of the house.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8293	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Dear Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8294	The Rules of Procedure of Article 209 and, later on, those provisions seem to me to be in breach of the Rules of Procedure, which speak of measures, but I do not wish for colleagues to impose any measure. He said here that the wife was a guard at home. A woman is no guard dog, and men and women must keep their homes together.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8295	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8296	It's according to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8297	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8298	That's what he said... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8299	You misread his, and that's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. It's not. ... It's not. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We're not gonna hurt you. ... Wrong comparison, please. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And finally, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8300	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Madam Attorney. Here's your report, which I'm personally impressed with by the way it's written, in which up to the point and to the cases mentioned these cases, to say gender-equality violations in all segments covered by your portfolio, and in these contributions that are listed here by which all the laws you have to think about and to act on in order to carry out your duty. By the way, I have to say that this report, it kind of fell on today, and in three days, as part of the International Family Day, we mark Mother's Day, May 11th, so here I am using the opportunity to congratulate all mothers here and in Croatia. Speaking of which, I'd rather say what I heard here today since I was last. Here, I very much agree with Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic, who spoke about the creative biological and other strength of the woman, not just what she said earlier and why there was dysonation between her and the gentleman on this side, on the right. Anyway, I admit that female gender and gender are stronger. Stronger and biologically and creatively and emotionally mature in every way. Except for the extra x chromosomes, except for that natural phenomenon that men would have died of by the age of 50, they hold, as our people say, three corners, as you said, cantons, not Swiss but home and work, unfortunately, three shifts unlike men who can't or won't. Maybe before this second than this first. The report we have ahead of us shows that it is interesting that page 7 in Chart 4 shows that the structure of newly opened objects in 2007 is more represented precisely in urban environments than in rural areas, which is very interesting and so far no one has noticed. When we look at the city of Zagreb, Rijeka, Split, Osijek, then we see, or their environment, that the number of cases reported there is greater. And we said that living conditions and family standards and economic development and the state of the economy are one of the preconditions for as few cases of gender inequality as possible. Well, now it's one small contradiction. And I'd say it's not a contradiction, but it's that in these areas, the availability of attorney generals and information about it is much better than in rural areas, where understanding is also one patriarchal, traditional and no one is looking for, mostly help, but here it goes further as it goes, and that's why we have that problem that a colleague was talking about in the country and that prison without a deadline for getting married there in the country. So it's actually without a deadline, it's up to the very end of life. I especially wanted to look back at it, namely the number of cases is exactly one case a day, if we take the working days of the year. Except Saturdays, Sundays and vacations. Exactly one case a day happened. New case, I'm talking about new cases. But I was particularly intrigued by what we're talking about, let's put it this way in the folk dictionary about alimony and alimony issues in the divorce of marriages and what was said here and in this House, and it was an alimony fund that was meant to alimony single parents, either mothers, or fathers, and then the state would use its instruments to make a debt and money out of the debtor, who was obliged to make that alimation and give it. Unfortunately, we've had cases that went out in the papers, I don't know if last year's or last year's, that there's been a conviction and alimony of 10 kuna. From 10 kuna to a court ruling. I also regret that your tools or instruments that the Ombudsman may have and which options he has are a warning, a recommendation and a proposal. Since we don't, someone also told the family court that has sanctions, so much stronger tools, then I unfortunately think that, unfortunately, I think it must be done on other measures, and I see that in this second part of your report you stated, that you organised consultations, that you organized meetings by county, by cities, etc. Well, since I'm more than happy with this report, because I have to tell you, here I am for three months, four, that the perception of the public in terms of the attorney's job is not only to tell your auditor but also all the other perceptions of the public that it's something that's so there, but it doesn't really help very much. That is why, and since I am, where you have been in the Republic of Croatia, and to say abroad, I invite you both to the Brod-Posavina County of Slavonski Brod to come and see us there, especially that part of the population where we have the biggest problem, and that is domestic violence above all and injustice to say in employment and in work, we are talking about mobbing to be clear, that there, directly with the interested ones, we explain to them and that you and you, in particular, are eating, and here will be our parliamentary representatives, to tell them that in our not to tell the Slavic rural environment those who are damaged can do something by means of this Attorney General's Office. Thank you very much. I accept your report anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8301	Thank you. The Honorable Advocate for Gender Equality, Mrs. Koritnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8302	Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs. I would just like to say briefly that some remarks here today will be made very likely, and this will depend on you to resolve the upcoming legislative changes. As far as the number of cases is concerned, I have to say something to make it perfectly clear. We've got phone consults, people are calling us. We never encourage parties to send complaints. We don't encourage parties to send complaints because when we say send a complaint, those people get hope. If we see that we're not in charge and we won't be able to get through this defense, then we'll tell them right away. So we don't create an artificial number of objects or ever do that. If there are fewer warnings, this indicates that there were fewer violations, fewer proposals, fewer warnings, fewer recommendations. So I think the key problem is still the issue of the labour market, but this is seen from all our actual contacts with both trade unions and women's associations, it's always a problem to decide to report to the employer for gender-based harassment. For the rest of the harassment, our attorney's office is not responsible. So there's a lot of things going on at work, but we're only dealing with one part. In light of Mrs. Caparin's remarks, I think I've been assigned to the report as well as to the office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8303	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when they get the terms.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8304	We will now vote on the 2007 report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality. The debate is closed. I am voting on the report on the work of the Advocate General for Gender Equality in 2007. Let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that with 70, most votes, 78 votes in favour, one abstention accepted this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8305	We move to - A report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for the year 2007 The Ombudsman for children submitted the report on the basis of Article 18(1). Law on the Ombudsman for children and Article 19 The attorney general's office for the children. The government delivered an opinion. You received the materials by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Health and Social Care, the Committee on Gender Equality. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. The Honorable Ombudsman for the children, Mila Jelavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8306	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The fifth report on the work of the Office of Advocates for Children is presented to the Croatian Parliament. I shared this exhibit in two parts, one refers to the report on the work of the office, and the other refers to, meaning, our activities, everything that we have done in the past year, and the other refers to our assessment of the state of the child's rights according to how we have been monitoring individual injuries to conclusions and reports and to our work on such remarks, proposals as well as in general about the phenomenon in society. In 2007, it was a big and significant year, in fact, that is, a year of significant changes in the work and functioning of the Office of the Ombudsman for Children, because the office began working in addition to work in Zagreb at regional level in Split, Osijek and Rijeka. In Split, the office opened and started in early March of last year, in Osijek at the end of June, and in Rijeka in early October. It means that offices worked, or offices outside Zagreb, for 10 and 6 and 3 months, respectively. In 2007, we worked on 1737 new items of which 847 individual applications, 890 general office initiatives, 347 were transferred from the previous reporting period. Overall, the increase in the number of cases and our actions in 2007 increased from 2006 to slightly more than 63%. We are convinced and we believe that our regionalism, i.e. going out to the field outside Zagreb and opening an office multidisciplinary in the approach and visibility of the office's work, has generally contributed to this increase in the number of cases. But what seems crucial to us is that we have made the office available to children, parents, institutions in these areas, and all those in need of office services. It is certainly visibility and work in the middle in which the office acted, to help us to better and more clearly look at the state of children's rights, injuries, but also the life of children in general in the area. There is hardly any area of child life that we have not dealt with, where we have not acted on the basis of the applications received, we have reacted, we have sought better protection. A word, two on the structure of the injury. The way we got them in the office. As in the previous year, there are still two kinds of violations of children's rights, and it violates the rights to life with parents and parental care, and violence, all kinds of violence against children. 236 applications or 32.5% were related to violations of the right to life with parents and parental care, and equally to violence against children. Violence is unfortunately further present against children, among children, neglect, abuse, and all those ugly and difficult forms that damage children, endanger their lives, rights and interests. Further follow infringements of children's educational rights, then by order of judicial and protective infringements, social, health, economic, children's rights as social communities etc. I have to point out here and the reporting of a number of parents who are violently acting by showing themselves as victims, trying to win an institution on their side, taking up time and being very loud, fighting for themselves and their interests, but having no insight into the real state or interest of the child and being angry because the decisions that the authorities make do not contribute to them. We often have doubts about dealing with these situations, whether these actions are also taken into account because they are at the heart of real violations of children’s rights, where we are then reducing space to ourselves, or I think that we can be more effective at working directly with children. As in previous years, the Office is also committed to individual violations of the rights of the child, as well as to general initiatives during this year. These general initiatives are seen through recommendations and a series of recommendations that we have written and sent to competent authorities, institutions or those to which they should apply. I'll mention some of them here. It is important to mention them because the recommendations always apply to a large number of children and to their protection, which is why we believe that it is important and important to send them, but to warn them, in order to point out the importance of specific institutions or individuals to adhere to such recommendations. One of them is certainly in the establishment of a database on perpetrators of gender delicacies to the harm of children, then a recommendation for the establishment of a child protection clinic in the Dalmatian region, a recommendation on the introduction of colleges on violence against children and among children to colleges, on the safety of children in school buses and personal cars, on the specialisation of lawyers representing children, on ads of pornography content, on advertising in schools, on the protection of children from alcohol use. I must say here that on several occasions our children themselves wrote that the sale of beer is unlimited and there is no obstacle to it. She's classified as food, but that a lot of beer kids get drunk. Let's read the results in the paper. We are witnessing that the availability of alcohol and the possibility of buying, lack of control, is very damaging to children. Then I will also mention a recommendation on school textbooks, on the introduction of free secondary education, on the protection of children in rail transport, on the recommendation in order to reduce infant mortality, etc., a whole series of recommendations that are systematised, explained in our report. Besides this, in the past year we've been very active in visiting numerous institutions and places where children live. I'll mention it by visiting, but their parents too, I'll mention 12 prisons. We've been in 12 prisons and penitentiary for the past year, 8 welfare institutions, 5 women's and children's victims of domestic violence, 3 hospitals, a series of schools, etc. However, despite our visits to the institutions and to the places where the children are staying, I must point out that in either larger or smaller groups of us in our offices, both in Zagreb and in Split, Osijek and Rijeka, a lot of children in smaller or larger groups visited, depending on the occasion we organised, why we called them or they themselves expressed their desire to come to us, either with a problem or with a proposal for some activity or action. By following children's rights through a five-year period, we can conclude that some positive developments have been achieved in the area of protection and promotion of children's rights, especially in awareness and needs and children's rights. But we continue to worry about the number of children who are deprived of their rights because of the lack of functioning or the lack of functioning of their protection system. In 2007, children's rights were the most endangered in the area of protection against violence and neglect, and family relations. Here I must mention social care as an important link in protecting children and children's rights, to express concern that the welfare system has many weaknesses that cause its ineffectiveness. Social care centres are entrusted with the responsibility of a number of powers and obligations. They are the only place parties are referred to in cases of conflicting family relations, problems in raising children, family violence and other extremely complex situations. Unfortunately, it often comes to the impression that experts in centres are under pressure from a number of obligations and expectations that, due to various objective circumstances, cannot meet insufficiently engaged and uninterested in quality problem-solving. We must also point to an insufficient number of professional workers, an insufficient number of educations and professional support from the competent ministry. And those in a number of cases lead to superficial and misjudged and misjudged. The consequences, unfortunately, also apply to children. Special attention should be paid to the protection of children with behavioural disorders. Homes for children with behavioural disorders are burdened with years of non-investment in spatial capacity, as well as professional staff. The particular problem is increasingly complex difficulties in this area, which are also affected by the situation in society, which requires urgent prevention measures. This situation has been going on for some time without a chance to solve it. We believe that a quality and thorough reform of the system is needed. We expect the Ministry of Health and Social Care to be involved in solving this problem and to protect the system and thus ensure better protection of children's rights. It is necessary to provide an adequate number of experts in social care institutions, continuously educate them and introduce mandatory supervisory, provide professional support and follow-up of external associates, supervisors and develop a network of experts motivated and educated for this form of work. In relation to the health care system, we also believe that under-investment in the health and difficulty of this system must not endanger the achievement of health rights and the protection of children in Croatia. Society needs to focus hastily on prevention activities, on protecting the mental health of children as well as on raising and education of children and professional training of adults in this area. There are insufficient number of pediatricians, especially those of children's psychiatrists, psychologists in the health care system. And it calls for an urgent response if we want all our children to be covered by health care as appropriate to their needs. We are also witnessing many family weaknesses, difficulties in the realization of the parenting role, conflicting family relations, and often endangering the child in the family. Family centers have not yet become a place where children and other family members who are at risk of life’s perils and situations can receive appropriate support, support, advice, concrete assistance. It is necessary to establish family centres in counties where they are not yet available in order to take over tasks defined by the regulations as soon as possible, which are certainly prevention, support for families, counselling and continued care of all family members. We particularly consider the unacceptable slowness and inefficiencies of the judiciary, insensitivity in this area, especially in the procedures in which children's rights have been resolved which we have been warning about for many years. We hope that by reforming the judiciary, the problems of protecting children's rights will be recognised and that their resolution will give appropriate meaning. In the system of education and education, as in previous reports, we are concerned about not a small number of educators, teachers, teachers who do not fulfill their primary role. Sometimes they also seem incompetent or uninterested. There is also the inability to protect children due to lack of insight into all aspects of the work of the system and effective administrative supervision of work and kindergartens and schools and schools, as well as the directors and administrative bodies themselves, which significantly burdens and slows the objective examination of the pattern of problems and their resolution. We are witnessing that unfortunately only when the problems escalate and through the media surface, they become visible system reacts and actively engages. In this way, child protection standards are inconsistencies, subjective to subjective evaluations which are inadmissible in any case. We stress the need for greater integration or better integration of experts from schools, social care centres, primary health care, school medicine, police to prevent and monitor children through better coordination of activities and established chain of responsibility for all of them, including or introducing a supervisory institute or helping all those who work with children. In relation to culture and sport, cultural and sports content must be highlighted, the conditions for the physical activity of each child are not equally available to their children, so the question is whether this constitutional principle of equal opportunities for their children, regardless of where they live, in which environment, city, village or anywhere else. In addition to the availability or inaccessibility of these contents, we cannot exclude either the property status or the ability of parents to include them in these activities in one way or another. I must also mention children with developmental difficulties and ask myself whether they are provided with conditions for cultural content and physical activity because children with these difficulties have the same rights as all others. What we would like to point out is that the role of attorney for children as protectors and promoter of children's rights in society is recognised. At the same time, however, we are concerned that in public it is rarely wrong to perceive the incompetence and possibility of action both by individuals and social entities. There are often situations where the institution of the Ombudsman for children is used as a front for achieving its own interest in adults, to strengthen certain own requirements and personal position of adults, where the interest of the child is neglected. The involvement of the Ombudsman in specific individual cases allows only insight into the way children's protection is achieved but does not affect the independence in the resolution of the competent authorities since it is the basic job of the office to monitor all areas of life and children's rights, to see the whole, to assess whether it can be better handled in the protection of children, to point out irregularities and to encourage the competent authorities to activity as it can and to propose activities arising from a comprehensive view and review of the situation to improve child protection. We are encouraged by the fact that the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the document The Strategic Framework for Development from 2006 to 2013 recognized and pointed out that the attitude of society towards children is images of society itself. In view of such orientation, we hope that it will be drawn up, which is to strengthen the role of the child's lawyer and increase investment and separation for part of the social system that deals with work and families. And I will conclude with a note of an extremely important connection and cooperation between all institutions involved in the protection of children from the position of the Ombudsman for children as places of pooling information and looking at problems with all aspects, there is an insufficient link between the resistors and the insufficient use of expertise and multidisciplinary approach in addressing the problem of child protection. As a company which has clearly defined the number of documents that protection of children's rights is one of the key interests, we must not allow the protection of children's rights for non-implementation of documents or difficulties in practice to be marginalised or neglected. Thank you very much. I'd be happy to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8307	Thank you. Do the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Ms. Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8308	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of the State's Attorney's Office for Children. This seems to me to be the fifth or sixth public defender's report for children in this House, and I have to say that unfortunately most of the problems that are being raised here today have been warned by the problems that have been in the report and over the past years, so it could almost be said that 95% of these problems are exactly the same in all the reports, and that in fact only shows that the issue of the purpose of these reports is that those who should actually act, and these are the executive powers of the ministries and certain bodies in the government, are not actually acting and nothing is happening in improving children's rights, which all these years have been warned about. Still the biggest problems seem to me to be the welfare system, the good part and the health system, and all these years we haven't been able to find solutions to many problems, so from the effective collection of alimony, from the illegal taking away of a child, from the problem of fostering, from the slow adoption, from the rights of children with multiple damages and countless other children's rights. I said that this report actually shows a rather difficult situation in the welfare system that I could say that one of his biggest problems is that he is not available to the citizens. Citizens are often not informed about their rights, most often very difficult to get to their rights because they stumble over certain administrative obstacles set up by the system. On the other hand, World Bank research has shown, for example, that one part of the employees in the welfare system and is not sufficiently informed about the laws they are implementing, so they cannot give good information to citizens. There is a lack of experts at social care centres, a part of them are not educated enough and part of them is not even motivated to work with citizens, work with people who come with family problems, social problems, and it is not an easy job. With education, therefore, there is a need for security and much better education in order to do the job properly. So we still have childcare problems, a large number of parents continue to behave harmfully for their children, so data at the Zagreb Children's Protection Center show that in their treatment there is an increasing number of children due to an unquality divorce. So because we have failed to educate divorce parents that divorce is their thing and that they must continue to be good parents to their children after divorce. So in that part, we couldn't exactly protect our children. I would say that it might reach out to some cases and one perhaps drastic method, which is that a child may be taken away from that parent who manipulates his child because of the fact that the manipulation of one of the parents is very harmful to the development of the child. So, I think if it's in our best interests to protect the child then we have to take care of that child, so I'm also saying that that parent who manipulates his child, who solves property problems through him or any other problems with his partner, simply take away his child in some way and maybe take away that other parent. It is also important to know that every decision that applies to a child is something that can cause permanent trauma in a child and therefore, of course, in all these decisions should be very careful because it is we who grow up to protect or protect a child and provide him with a positive environment or we can really influence him to live with certain traumas. Unfortunately, we still have not been able to solve the effective problem of not paying for the alimony because, under the Law, a family change that may have been changed a little over half a year or a year ago, we have actually received an extension of the deadline. By law, the centre could pay off, unless the alimony is paid for for 3 months, it is now extended to 6 months and therefore there are still no good mechanisms for punishing those who do not pay for the alimony. In the countries of the European Union, these mechanisms are very well worked out and it is simply not possible for you not to pay that alimony or if nothing else is done then, in some ways the state will pay the child, but you will do it and thus return what the state has given for you. These six months have been one number of parents who have had a hard time living for a really long time, and they have been having a hard time living without alimony for six months. In those six months, they often go into debt, so on cards, checks, or I don't know what, and then it's very questionable whether they're going to be able to get that money, so they're going to charge from an irresponsible parent. Thus, we have not yet found good mechanisms to make irresponsible parents pay for their children and care for them. I'd like to say something about foster care. We had a law here where it was visible that the number of foster parents falling for children who are located in an institution is much better if they are located in a foster family, for them it is a much more natural and better environment than the institution. However, the problem is therefore a very small and growing number of foster parents, but on the other hand, very weak and inadequate supervision of foster parents so that we can have control over how children in foster families live. There have been different cases that children also serve as labour, that they do not have good living conditions. Hence, supervision should be much stronger and much better to protect children who go to foster homes. Something about violence in schools that, unfortunately, has recently taken on the scale of a lot of serious injuries that children cause to each other even to murder. So violence among children would be said to be increasingly difficult. That's what's been happening to us since '96. the years when we removed psychologists and mental health experts from education and education systems. So we don't have people, experts who will work with children at the earliest stage, who will recognize the problems that children have and who will, in time, try to work with them, if they don't send them to a specific specialised facility. The same should be said that such institutions do not exist in Croatia. The D.A. warned here that she was, for example, Dalmatia area where another polyclinic for child protection should be formed, so one polyclinic that has multidisciplinary teams that can work with such children and can help them. So here is another appeal to make an effort to form such a thing in the region of Dalmatia. So, the lack of mental health experts is definitely our key problem, and unless we urgently start hiring mental health professionals in schools, we're going to have more and more violence among children, and the latest violence among children is this picture of children with a cell phone and the distribution of those images that most children, when these photographs or some scenes go to the general public, are actually almost destroyed in their environments. Thus, it is a new form of violence among children who have been on the move lately. As far as children's health care is concerned, there's something I'd like to talk about here about the problem of the health care system and something that just as the attorney-in-law has been troubled and alerted by the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare. Unfortunately, they didn't respond in time. They only reacted when it started in the paper. Namely, a full 7 days in one of our daily lists was written about the treatment of children in an institution called "The Thief", where children were treated in a completely inappropriate way, where there are not enough experts, so there are not enough doctors to treat such a large number of patients. But here we should actually warn that we have actually abolished almost all the wards of child psychiatry for the last 10 years, and we have only one psychiatric, child psychiatric hospital left. So it's a hospital in Kukuljevic, which actually works out how much I understand only in crisis situations. Waiting in that hospital for help is therefore a specialist doctor from 4 to 6 months because the pressure is therefore extremely high on a single specialised institution at Croatia level. So it's about having kids with behavioral problems, but they also have associated certain, certain mental disorders. We basically have nowhere to go with those kids. So, then, these are not children who belong to these institutions of social care who care for these children. Often, therefore, children who have mental disorders or some form of illness may need medical treatment. Unfortunately, we have nowhere to go with these kids, and then it happens that those kids are staying in adult wards, which is not good. So this is one of the cases and examples of this "Looper" where children were placed with adults, where children were therefore in completely inappropriate conditions. Not to tell me, for example. We have a problem and child psychiatrists. About 50,000 children come to us in Croatia for a child psychiatrist. So, this is something that the health system would have to deal with, so we would have to open up a little more specialization for child psychiatry, but also provide additional education to people who are already in the health care system to maybe specialize in what we call child psychiatry. On the other hand, the health care system was the same in '96. For years, clinical psychologists have been expelled. They should also be returned to the health care system, as there are simply no specific processes that can therefore be carried out in the health care system with persons who need such assistance. Therefore, the return of clinical psychologists to the health care system is necessary, if we want to open as much space as possible to help children with help, professional assistance is needed. And in the end, I would still just like to say in this "Breaker" that, thanks to the newspaper's writings, but not unfortunately, to the work of the Attorney's Office that it was discovered, however, by the inspection finding that there were violations of children's rights, that the children were still under inadequate conditions, that they were treated in an inadequate manner because they could not contact their nearest family after 200 days. They were tied up, there were a lot of things. So, here's just the Ministry with the inspection found that there were certain irregularities and now the question is just what's the next step, and I think once again it's a step in ensuring a certain and sufficient number of experts to work with such children. And finally, the position of children in the media. In fact, as a Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, we had one thematic debate about how suicides of children are reported. We then warned that there were guidelines from the World Health Organization on how the media needs to be reported. So, without a lot of details, if that's what the public needs to know about, because the question is what is the public informing about another person's accident, about another person's grief that we're telling the public. We definitely don't think there's much interest in citizens here. On the other hand, we also warned on the board that children’s rights are being violated more and more, that when children and children’s problems are being written about their identity often. We are a small country, even when you do not name a child, but if you film his house, school, or any of its surroundings, everyone in that small place will know what child it is. Therefore, our appeal was in front of the board unanimously to invite all the media to take a little more care when reporting about children that sensationalism cannot go over the back of children, that raising the circulation or ratings could not go over the back of children. We just have to protect the kids. You can write about all phenomena. And I think the media has done a lot of over the past few years to sensitize the public. Many problems can be written about, but so that no identity can be given to the child and that it is not further petitized by his stories in his midst. Here, in any case, the SDP club will support this report of yours. We'll vote for him, but I'd like to see this report to another one, so until the second year a lot of these things get out of the report if the government would follow some of your recommendations here and try to protect the children as much as possible. Because as one teacher who worked in school for almost 35 years said, children are our mirror, and this report is actually a report about us and our behavior towards children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8309	Thank you. HNS Club, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8310	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed Ms. Attorney General with her colleagues. I am particularly pleased to say this time that the Croatian People's Party Club will indeed support the Ombudsman's report for children by assessing that it is necessary to really distinguish the work of the office and the Ombudsman herself from the general opportunities that we can judge the poor. But above all, because of our instrumentation, so the infrastructure that is now taking over the regional network makes things more visible than it was before. First of all, I would like to say that the opening of regional offices in Split, Rijeka and Osijek can do much to bring all the mechanisms that exist and are built into the Institute of Defence and Regions in which, due to a whole series of socio-economic above all opportunities, we can assume that the level of child rights violations can be located somewhere above the average. Furthermore, I would like to say that we are very pleased with the visibility of the office's work. The fact is that although the Attorney's Office has to address itself daily with numerous queries, demands, sometimes media pressures to comment on this or that case has indeed made its work open, accessible and that there are almost no cases processing the media, that it will not address the office, or the Ombudsman himself for position, opinion, interpretation. That's good, because that way messages are sent to an increasingly wider circle and to a greater number of potential support stakeholders, the help of the Ombudsman herself. The fact that the number of cases the lawyer and her office are processing has increased by as much as 63% is certainly not about the increase in individual cases of child rights violations, but about increasing their visibility, availability and trust of those to whom this type of assistance should be given by the Ombudsman and her office indeed. I must say, I'm also very pleased with my personal experience that the attorney general is also working with local self-government units. Of course, it must always be a two-way street. Local self-government units must, that is, make their leaders aware of the need for cooperation with institutions such as the Advocate's Office. I also had a chance before I entered the Croatian Assembly to meet with the Ombudsman at least once, and twice a year in my town because he is happy to respond, because he is happy to attend important events and is happy to give his court, he is happy to get to know the public, the interested public with the opportunities provided by the institution of childcare. I can say that we use these experiences, recommendations, advice, because in my city, we now state this as one possible case of childcare, we took it quite seriously, so we got a little naive two and a half years ago to get the status of the city of friends of children thinking it was more or less formic. And it's good that we did it because it proved that this action with which I am an attorney's office has no bearing on, but directly affects the quality of all kinds of help and improvements in the living conditions of children, is actually organised by UNICEF in collaboration with the association of our children, in this process of proving the status of the city of friends of children, we had to face many issues, some of which were unpleasant, and some of us knew nothing, in order to improve all the components of the public sector that care about children or provide any kind of service to the children's population. From preschool education, pediatricians in the local health home, then schools, associations, institutions, to communication unit local self-government with children. We also have our City Council children and this is a great medium through which children can ask and ask the mayor, and he has to report to them every year what he made of what he promised them last year. Also, we have one institution, I now say it as an example because I would like other units of local self-government to understand their level of responsibility, so that they may try to use it on themselves, which is the Center for Children of Youth and Family as a unique institution in all of Croatia through which more than 2.5 thousand users pass through, not necessarily children who have any problem, but children with whom they are actively working through workshops, actively spending their free time, learning, but also support, professional assistance, etc. All of this was directly given to the Ombudsman the opportunity to see, assess and evaluate. What we of the CNS would like to draw more attention to is repeated, I would say to the attorney's appeal that one of the key problems is the lack of expert personnel and that on several levels. And what my colleague Opačić was saying, I want to repeat that the more we get into our ears, the more we miss, the chronic lack of expert frame of profile, pediatrician, child psychiatrists, clinical psychologists. It is a matter that can and must be resolved by the state and regional self-government through the approval of a larger number of specializations. This is where the Ministry of Health and Social Care needs to open up space, and regional government through county health homes also. Furthermore, we have a large deficit of professional staff in preschools and schools. I don't have enough psychologists, educators, defecologists, logos. We have discussed these days, and soon we will bring a new pedagogical standard for preschool education that speaks of it, but imposes an obligation only on local self-government. The local self-government is unable to solve this big problem on its own. If we don't start thinking about increasing the enrollment rate in those studies, about animation of students to turn to these profiles, in 3, 4, 5 years, it's going to be even worse, maybe even catastrophic. I must mention, too, that the modern abolition of the school medicine system has caused enormous damage. I once said that it seems to me that the late Andrija Stamper is spinning like a propeller in a grave when she sees how easily our health was dealt with with with with the basic ideas on which even the World Health Organization was called. The school dispensary system has been completely shut down. Today, a child who comes out of kindergarten immediately goes with his card to a family doctor who is not a pediatrician and his knowledge of this type of medicine is not enough to follow a child at that age when he is still subject to specific illnesses. I hope that what is written in the coalition agreement is the ruling majority, and frankly, I couldn't believe it when I read, which is the return of school medicine, that the Ministry of Health and Social Care will be affected this year. And be assured that the Ombudsman for children will also be happy and welcome in this regard, and we will all likely support everything that leads to the construction of the system of school medicine, which, I repeat, is unjustly and unwisely abolished. The Ombudsman rightly points out that those personnel we have and those resources that we have and those associations, institutions and experts who act are not sufficiently networked, do not exchange enough information and do not cooperate. This is a very important warning because if we were to change it, we would certainly achieve a higher level of usefulness and use of these capacities, eased pro-pulsibility of information, exchange of ideas, that also means constant education. And therefore, we are joining the prosecutor's call for children to take the state seriously to take the warnings that repeat 5 annual reports. I'm also a little admired to the D.A.'s attorney that for five years, her office and this institute have insisted on some problems in which she doesn't even see a move. Few of us would keep that level of enthusiasm as Mrs. Jelavić has. In that sense, I congratulate you and wish you much more success in your work, and let your great heart and all of you in the counsel's office beat even stronger. Cheers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8311	Thank you very much. We have one correction. Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8312	Mr. President, Madam Attorney, colleagues and colleagues. A colleague, Beus Richembergh, incorrectly stated that the knowledge of a family doctor is insufficient to provide care for the health population. In recent times, there has been an up-to-date specialisation of family medicine in the context of which knowledge is acquired from the paediatric field. I'm a particularly family doctor for 28 years and I've been taking care of the children's population in all segments of counselling for children, treatments, etc. In the event of a more complicated matter, of course, I'm consulting a pediatrician, but I'm afraid it can't be generalized. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8313	Thank you. It's an opinion like this, but of course he probably didn't mean you personally, but maybe there are those, right? Good. Okay. Everything. Thank you very much. It is up to HDZ Club and Mrs. Representative Susana Bilić Vardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8314	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Ms. Attorney General for Children with Associates, colleagues and colleagues. The report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2007 the Croatian Democratic Community Club fully considered this fifth annual report since the establishment of the office in 2003, the Croatian Democratic Community Club estimates as a quality and comprehensive document, which in 13 chapters and 263 pages shows the state of respect and the threat to children's rights in all segments of society. Do we know that the basic job of the Ombudsman's Office to monitor all areas of life and children's rights is to look at the whole, assess whether children's protection can be better handled, indicate irregularities and encourages the competent authorities to carry out activities based on full insight, then this report shows that the Office of the Ombudsman for Children, or the Ombudsman, does so well. Because the office is involved in all segments of the life of children from social care, education, preschool, both pre-school and primary school sports, justice, transport, media, and in collaboration with competent authorities, the state administration participates, encourages, initiates, monitors the adoption and implementation of regulations in relation to the protection of children's rights, and the office cooperates well with the non-governmental sector, associations of citizens whose rights and welfare are in the immediate field of work. It is also commendable to pay particular attention to the protection of children with special needs and to the protection of children with behavioural disorders in their work as seen in the report. It is important to highlight and praise the rich international cooperation of the Ombudsman's Office for Children through cooperation with international organisations, bilateral cooperation and participation of office representatives at international conferences, seminars and expert meetings. The visit of children who are staying or are permanently situated with natural and legal persons and other legal entities, and on the basis of the specific regulations and tour of other institutions in which children are present, the law and obligation laid down by the Law on the Ombudsman for children and during the reporting period, the Ombudsman used the visit to the institution of social care, so during 2007, the lawyer and staff of the office visited the House of Physical or Mentally Harmful Persons, four homes for children with behavioural disorders, the Home for children without adequate parental care, but also institutions for the accommodation of children and adult victims of family violence. So it's about shelters for women and children, five of them. Likewise, health institutions, three health institutions: Pediatric clinic Zagreb, Pediatric department of the General Hospital Sibenik and Pediatric department of the General Hospital of Dubrovnik and Pediatric Hospital and the maternity ward of the General Hospital Sibenik as well as criminal institutions, educational institutions, penitentiary facilities and prisons, and on the spot, became convinced of the conditions in which the children are staying, thus pointing and recommending to the competent state authorities the need to improve them for the protection of children's rights in them. When we talk about child rights violations, including the attorney-general in specific individual cases only allows for insight into how children's rights are protected and does not affect independence in the resolution of competent authorities, and it is precisely in the conduct of the competent authorities of the state administration that this report indicates, there are certain problems in the implementation of the protection of children's rights and practices in the interests and the welfare of children. During 2007, the Ombudsman’s Office for Children acted in 1737 new cases, of which 847 were individual applications, violations of children’s rights, and 890 of them were general initiatives initiated by the office. In addition to the 347 individual applications submitted from 2006, the office acted in a total of 1194 individual cases during 2007. The number of individual applications, as well as the number of general office initiatives, increased by 63% compared to 2006 to which one of the recommendations previously made to the Republic of Croatia by the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child, which included making the offices more accessible to the parties, therefore to children, parents and institutions. During last year, three regional offices were opened. The one in Split that worked for 10 months on 1 March 2007. On 18 June in Osijek, he worked for 7 months and on 1 October 2007, a regional office in Rijeka that worked for 3 months. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This report, which also includes a review of the work of regional offices, shows that, regardless of the time of the office opening, all three of these regional ones received almost the same number of reports of child rights violations and that of Split 113, Osijek 105 and Rijeka 108 applications. But the importance of their opening up to the sensitization of the public on promotion and respect and protection of children's rights is therefore unquestioned and commending the results achieved so far in the work within this short period of time we expect them to play an even greater role in achieving the basic tasks of the office. In the area of the monitoring of individual infringements of children's rights, the largest number refers to children's personal rights and 800 applications, 557 from 2007 and 243 from 2006, and then to the educational total of 142, 105 from 2007 and 37 from 2006. When a child's personal rights are violated, you allow me to remind only that he is entitled to live amongst the personal rights of the child, the right to know his own origin, the right to apply for birth, the right to claim citizenship, to preserve his personality, the right to have a child's privacy, to live with parents and parental care, to protect against violence and neglect, the right to protect against law enforcement and non-return of a child, custody, the right to marry, the right to meet and associate with grandparents and other rights, then, this report for the year 2007 as well as the previous years in the majority of relations with respect to the right to life with parents and parental care, 236 applications or 28%. This injury covers 354 children. And the right to protect against violence and neglect of 235 applications exposed to 856 children. In solving injuries and protecting a number of children's rights, the welfare system in this report has highlighted one of the most important features, because it is involved in all the problems of children. With the continued increase in the powers and responsibilities of the social care centre, it is necessary to ensure an adequate number of professional staff, both in social care centres and in social care institutions. In this way, the report would also partially avoid the renewed shortcomings in the work of the Social Care Centre, as well as the evaluation of the Advocates on the causes of such a situation. In fact, during 2006, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and before, has begun to address these problems that are repeated from year to year, i.e. in the 2006 report and for 2007. However, it is obvious that the measures taken by the Government, which is the introduction of professional people into the welfare system, so new people do not immediately show the result that we would all like together. Therefore, it should be gradually, in time, that everything the Government of the Republic of Croatia has done and in the field of education, which the Ombudsman said in her opening presentation, in part, from the right to free textbooks, to a free and mandatory high school that is gradually being introduced. It is to give us time to both the government and these measures to revive, the government to extend its measures, and measures to revive and show the desired results. We also support the need for investment in spatial capacity and professional staff in children's homes with behavioural disorders, estimating that the World Bank's Ministry of Health and Social Welfare has included investment in these institutions of social care, and the welfare of children, home-protectors. There have also been repeated objections to the length of the proceedings before the courts, when they address questions about the rights of children, because by not making a timely decision, and this was also a temporary measure, they cause even greater harm to children. A reform of the judiciary has also been announced in this area, and it is clear in this reform that special attention will be paid and the rights of children who are being violated by such work will be protected. My predecessors have already pointed out that in the protection of children's rights in the field of education and education, it will also contribute significantly to the adoption and application of the National Pedagogical Standards, which this High House has discussed this week, and which enables and foresees in the system to introduce experts relevant for the proper education and education of children, who are currently missing at a large number of educational institutions and make them equally available to all students. The role of the media, which is positive in the dissemination of knowledge of respect and protection of children's rights, the sensitisation of the public for this issue, is also known to be also negative, especially when it comes to the violation of children's rights to privacy in the media involving children, which is often indicated by the Ombudsman, because colleagues and colleagues, often journalists, editors and owners of newspapers and media, more important profits and sensationalism in reporting from the child's well-being and respecting the protection of children's rights. Since the Ombudsman for children is obliged to submit a report on his work to the Croatian Assembly once a year, this report also contains an overview of the work of the office with financial indicators. The report shows that the office had no problems financing its work, since the 2007 budget provided funds of 4 million kuna for this purpose, of which as much as 97.7% or 4 million 082 thousand 59 kuna were made available, even for a million 355 thousand more than achieved in 2006, and it is not to be pointed out here that 5 million kuna was planned in the 2008 budget. The job, along with the lawyer and her two deputies, has been carried out by 12 government employees in the office out of the total necessary and planned to employ 23, and I believe that both in this segment, with the increase in funds and with the opening of regional, so three regional offices, will gradually be employed by a number of employees, or in line with the necessary ones. The spacious offices in Split and Rijeka have been given an adequate space for use. In Rijeka they are hired, and in Zagreb activities were launched to replace the existing space for bigger ones. Therefore, the financial, spatial and humane conditions for the work of the Ombudsman's Office for Children during 2008. And finally, the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club supports the report on the work of the children's counselors for 2007. We support the prosecutor's request for children as well as the position expressed by a number of committees of this House, that there is a need for better coordination of the work of all competent state institutions on which we have a positive position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which has already, in connection with this report, been tasked with taking appropriate measures to remove the irregularities mentioned in the report. We are convinced that the implementation of all measures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia aimed at strengthening the part of the system that deals with children and families established in the budget for this year as well as the continuation of the activities of the Office of Advocates for Children will contribute to even better respect and protection of children's rights in the Republic of Croatia in this 2008 and in all the following years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8315	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Mr. Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8316	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will in my debate, in this report on the fifth in a row, just remind us first of the information the D.A. gave us. A thousand 737 new cases, and in the last year, thousands of 194 of which were 847 applications and 890's of the general initiatives. By the number and importance of the first three places, they put problems related to the right to live with parents, parental care, and protection from violence. If, therefore, these three problems are based on structure in the first place, it shows that our society has obviously suffered from a chronic disease of irresponsible behaviour towards children as parents but obviously also in the system something is wrong. I'd stick to the number of not-so-important 29 cases or medical rights cases but also the right to the privacy of children. And I would ask you and ask you to pay attention and help on a segment relating to health, law and privacy, and the right of patients when our media is electronic and written reporting about accidents that have hit children with a full, photo or film-recorded material, especially when health care personnel come to the camera and recite the injuries the child has sustained. How many broken ribs, fractured spleen, injured internal organs as if they were at a health symposium. So if I can and understand when it happened to some public figures, I can't accept or understand the fact of this greed for capital and profit, even the children are exposed to such traumatic situations, and I'm not saying that we're putting them at risk today-to-morrow when they get better, when they finish rehab, we're preventing both progress and employment. The disability or consequences of an accident, accident, serious illness sometimes, you know that well and are an obstacle to employment. So I ask you to address both you and the Minister of Health and the Croatian Medical Chamber, but also the editors to really understand that there is a Law on the Protection of Patients in this Croatia, that you oversee the part that applies to children and that you will no longer tolerate it. You also mention foster care as a particular problem, so I'm going to ask you, and I'm going to ask you a few cases that I'm personally familiar with, that you're offering the welfare system maybe a little different thinking. For example, when a child is left by a mother of two, three days old is accepted in a foster family and immediately normally enters the list of possible adoptions and when a child turns two, three years of life, the right advantage of adoption is given to someone other than the family in which the child was placed immediately after birth. I probably don't have to prove to you any reason why this really shouldn't happen. Unfortunately, it happened. I also ask you not to wait for an annual report if you consider that in the regulations on legislation in the course of the year anything like us as a Parliament in whose name you exist and act in this responsible business must change something. So, if the rules are the reason for creating a problem, initiate this, ask us to change through legislation the things that will benefit children, but also make it easier for you to work. So use your right initiative. I encourage you and encourage you to make it even clearer, louder, and more frequent public speaking. Use the authority of the institution you have. Don't be afraid to publicly refer to all those institutions, whoever they are, to any person who not only respects the laws of this country but who really crosses all the boundaries of relations, human relations with children. Perhaps not right now, perhaps not for the first time or for the third time, but I assure you that your frequent public statements, criticisms and warnings that something is done beyond the interests of children will be the result. Long-term and patient procedure, but there will be results like you can testify that in these five years and five reports there has been progress. If it hadn't been for public speaking, if you hadn't had the courage and had given up on it, maybe there wouldn't have been such progress. And every time, but really every time you use public speech to influence the change in the relationship of society, individuals, parents to children, you will always have at least mine and I believe the entire Parliament's support. Oh, somebody liked it or not. He was appointed high or low official by name and last name and his function or institution with public authority. And to end the question if you're going to answer me, if it's not enough to nod your head, is it really possible that you as a child lawyer should have asked the Centre for Autism in Zagreb for one application and the subject you were conducting, is one such institution that took care of autistic children not immediately but that you had to send a rush to get the first man on the application of a mother from Split? You probably know what I'm talking about. Because if that is true, if you really are in such institutions, you must seek answers in order to see what it is, then it is indeed a sick system. And my proposal short. In the next report for this year, compare the table by the number of cases of an institution with public authority, social, health and public authorities which did not respond or which you had to send an emergency to get answers. With the name and last name of responsible people, because we need to carry out the individualization of responsibility, not that those who swindle your demands, warnings and recommendations hide behind those institutions. I would like to get a review not only of you, and of the occupiers and all others who are the institutions and who is the name and last name of the head who does not respect the institution of the civil defenders, the lawyers for gender and child equality, the disabled that you should urinate, rush to send, by phone to get any answer. This way in this book, the illustration of the object is hidden in the mass. Let's get them to clean up on one sheet of paper. I assure you that they will behave differently when their institution and the head man responsible for non-response is in front of the Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8317	Thank you very much. We'll interrupt the session now, continue tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. There are a lot of MPs and MPs who have called. The first is Mr Zeljko Jovanovic, then Mrs Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić and so on. So we continue at 9.30 in the morning with the agenda. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs and MPs, we continue with the session and agenda item of the 2007 Ombudsman's work. It is Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8319	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The D.A.'s office is doing a hard and responsible job, and unfortunately, in the report, we can see that children's rights are being violated daily. It's great that the number of cases that the office had last year increased 63%, because it's a message that the attorney's office succeeded in what any institution would have wanted, which is that it's credible and that it has citizens' trust. The next reason for our satisfaction would be if we had information to the extent that the Office's actions had been answered by those who were supposed to be involved in solving these problems. Unfortunately, we cannot see it from the report, so it would be interesting if Mrs Jelavic might tell us to what extent they have feedback from institutions who have been invited to address particularly some key and major issues related to child rights violations. I would absolutely agree here with my colleague, Lesar, who, in his debate yesterday, invited Mrs Jelavic, whenever she felt there was an obstruction, to contact us and to give us, on our part, maximum support to the office on the resolution of all those issues that threaten children's rights. The long-term but kind of covertness in the work can be seen on page 61 where the office pointed to problems with the state's graduation and called on the ministry to intimate activities, harmonize the views that children would not be misinformed during school and inform students, teachers and parents of this quality. Apparently, Minister Primorac didn't read what the Attorney's Office advised him. We've seen this from the events that have been happening in the past few days. The chapter on health rights is very worrying. There are 85 pediatricians missing in Croatia, 25 neonatologists missing. At this point, 30% of children are not included in paediatric care. And if this trend continues, very quickly there will be 50% of children who will not be covered by adequate medical care. 30 children's psychiatrists, 26 clinical psychologists care for the mental health of all children of Croatia. As little as that is, I don't think I should explain it specifically. And it is questionable how ready we are at this point to adequately protect our children's mental health. It is also seen in part of the report on the care, accommodation and treatment of children with behavioral disorders and associated mental disorders. It is amazing, but it is true that we do not have at this time in Croatia any institution that is equipped with equipment, human and other conditions qualified to work with such children. The D.A. points out that, for example, in the Thieves establishment, such treatment was not associated with adequate conditions despite good intentions. And warns the Department of Health that something should be done. Unfortunately, until that case came to the papers, nothing happened. I believe that as Parliament's representatives, perhaps through our committees, the Assembly Committee on Health and Social Care and the Committee on Youth, we must ask the Ministry of Health to urgently come up with an action plan to offer a solution to training professionals in the field of child psychiatry, clinical psychology, because this is the only way that can enable an effective, quality and modern solution to the welfare of children, as the Ombudsman points out in his report. I spoke about the problem of children with autism two days ago, so I'm not going to burden you with it again today. I would like to point out once again that it is amazing how little hearing for children with autism has both ministries, and even more surprising, since the Ombudsman in her report also pointed to the problem. So once again I appeal to this esteemed House, that through our parliamentary committees we are involved in solving the problem of autism in Croatia. It is important that some new problems arise in the report. For example, the problems facing children who are involved in sports, the health care of athletes' children is a very questionable quality in Croatia. The diet of children, a new problem that we face in Croatia, an increasing number of fat children, while not offering quality solutions and these are some new areas that we will certainly have to deal with through our Committee on Health and Youth. Finally, the point of conclusion can be read by quoting the Attorney General's Office which very simply says what has to be done. So, "From the above, once again, there is a need for better integration between systems, primarily social care systems, health care, education and justice. The main problems must be resolved at the ministry level and then resolved to lower levels of centres, homes, schools and hospitals.". Simple, and sometimes the simplest solutions are to be implemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8320	Thank you. It's Madam Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8321	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Attorney, colleagues and colleagues. The principle of comparison with the previous years is seen in this report that the Ombudsman’s Office received, or acted in more than double cases than in the previous year. These were items, either as individual applications, violation of children's rights, or actually a general initiative of the office itself. There are certainly commendable initiatives and the work of the Advocate's Office, but it is necessary to make it as transparent as Mr. Lesar pointed out to more public yesterday, i.e. it should still be clearer to show ways in which help can be obtained from this Office, because it is not listed here, because even false perceptions about the work and jurisdiction of your Office are listed here. I'd like to extend the praise I found in this report. In Croatia, there are many cases where the parent's right to support must be achieved by violent means as you have stated. This assistance is offered by the Office in cooperation with the Croatian Bar Association, in the form of a complaint of free legal assistance in the representation and maintenance procedures independent of family incomes. It is a commendable undertaking in view of the number of cases and in order to essentially avoid the involvement of children and the protection of children from knowledge, essentially, from non-restraint. Then I would single out in the rise of violence in schools The Office launched a commendable initiative in which the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports recommended to refer to schools, to share the text of the protocol on school violence at the beginning of each school year in regular parenting meetings. And it explains basically the reasons for his passing, and the activities that can be taken. Because very often parents do not know how to handle such situations. The Office then pointed out the problem of the content of the television programme because it no longer cares about health, education, child and youth education, it no longer devotes itself to the proper design of the programme, but is increasingly seeking to achieve exclusively profit, including violent, immoral missions that, of course, send false messages to young people. Children are increasingly exposed to such content and, of course, it is inappropriate for their growth and development. Therefore, the office has also proposed certain measures. However, the question arises whether it can really influence the implementation of these proposed measures as an office. It is also a positive initiative and a good idea for children's lawyers, i.e. specialised lawyers who represent those children's rights in criminal proceedings, and also a proposal to grant a license for these people because it has been seen in fact that in most cases they do not meet most of the criteria. It is also commendable to draw attention to the problems facing children with developmental difficulties, to the situation of denying the review until conviction, etc. It is particularly worrying about how you quote a teacher who does not recognize these difficulties, who does not want to be educated because they believe that it is not their duty or responsibility. Allegedly, it affects the development of children with special needs. It also stresses the need to hire expert staff and permanent education supervisory. But the question remains, again, to whom this proposal is addressed. There's a big problem in breaking children's rights in the media. The office also protected its own initiative and external applications, thus warning of the serious abuse of children in the media. Namely, this treatment in the media is mostly sensational and superficial and when we ask ourselves what the picture is like in the children's media today, it can be said that children usually appear in two roles: or the protagonists are “Black Chronicles”, victims of accidents, violence, abuse, diseases, etc. Or they're lovely characters from commercials that actually have to encourage listeners, viewers to buy. This excellent treatment of children in Croatian media is presented, which serves as a tool for raising profits. It doesn't matter their development, their opinion and attitudes about the world. All that matters is profit. Based on office reports, the Press Council issued 5 warnings. We can tell from this that something's still moving. However, it is alarming that some TV editors have not responded at all to the counsel's recommendations, others have denied their responsibility, and the answers to some show that they are not aware of their responsibilities and that they do not recognise them at all, and that they do not know either national or international documents on the protection of children's rights. We're wondering what the consequences are for them? So, the office educated, initiated, called, recommended. But is that enough? Is that the only possibility of an office action? While there are no consequences, there is no change in that attitude, and this is constantly lagging behind in the reports. I would then mention in one item when the office participates in public activities aimed at worsening the situation of children. At the invitation of the Office for Human Rights of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Office took part in the development of the National Programme for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights in the chapter – children and young people. He also proposed the adoption of a special Law on Child Protection against all forms of abuse and follow-up protocol, then ensuring the implementation of the psychosocial treatment of perpetrators of this violence, the implementation of the psychosocial assistance programme and the empowerment of children victims of violence, the assistance of parents, etc. etc. Unfortunately, however, none of the office's proposals were accepted. And if there is a more competent office, that is, a person who can take a look at all the children's problems with this kind of Supervision. I would then highlight the National Plan of Activities for the Rights and Interest of Children was adopted in February 2006. The D.A.'s office also participated in this work. However, it is said that, in meetings with educational and medical professionals and doctors, they have not been informed that they have at all information on the existence of such a quality programme, which is, of course, worrying and so on. Then I would like to highlight the chapter on child protection that my colleague Jovanovic mentioned in sports. The office has given very precise judgments and expressed clear views on what violence is against children, and it is unacceptable to assess the usual belief that the child is wrong because it caused the adult to physically attack him. Well, we know cases where the coach is so pissed off that the kid's flashes off. And that's terrible! And this is a good thing that basically the office locates the problem, or sees this problem. It is worrying, however, that there is no answer to any recommendation and a request for reports from the Croatian Olympic Committee. Then I'd like to mention something about health care. I wouldn't be long, because so did my colleague before me, but I'll point out only one thing I found. The non-implementation of the plan and programme of health care measures from compulsory health insurance at the maternity site in Split, where the failure of hearing aids since the end of 2005 has not been carried out at all. So the difficulties of the system cannot endanger the right to the child’s health care. I can conclude that a good coverage of the problem is seen from this report, that very extensive states are and this psychosocial reference to the problem, and less legal. In many cases, however, the proposals remained as a dead letter on paper. For workers who should protect children's rights in the report, social care centres have not been sufficiently engaged and uninterested, family centres have not yet become a place where children and families can receive adequate support and assistance, education and education not fulfilling their primary role. Sometimes as you say they act incompetent, uninterested, paid, and you suggest modernising, choosing competent professional staff, and really taking responsibility from professions, jobs, or laws. But throughout this report there are often too many parts of the report, which describe the request for a report on some violations of child rights as ending the sentences “not yet manifested, ”“ what we still have no knowledge of. ” None of our recommendations or requests for a report from the Croatian Olympic Committee have responded once. The defense counsel's recommendation for children in this case has been completely ignored. I cite, unfortunately, none of our proposals have been accepted and so on, although the Law on the Ombudsman for Children states in Article 11 that institutions and persons are required immediately and, no later than 15 days, inform the Ombudsman of the measures taken on the occasion of his warning. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8322	Thank you very much. We have one correction, Mrs. Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8323	Well, here I am correcting the inaccuracies of Mrs. Advocacy who says welfare centres are not sufficiently engaged in this issue. I responsibly argue that this is not true, it is an incorrect allegation that the welfare centres have about 150 powers somewhere, and I must also say that there is no such institution that solves all life situations, or problems that arise in each of our ordinary citizens' lives, starting with establishing paternity to exhumation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8324	Thank you. Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8325	Thank you, Mr. President, the esteemed attorney for children with associates, colleagues and colleagues. When I read this report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2007, then I think we'll all agree that it's a very detailed approach, methodologically correct, even in order of problems from the biggest to then perhaps smaller ones, although it seems to me that everything that is related to children is no less important. And, however, that work from year to year is getting better, that exactly thanks to the office, and in our own attorney for children and the public ours has become more sensitive to these problems. But when we read the contents of which all our children are thrown out, then I think we'll agree with those famous words of an even more famous speaker, a scientist who once said that peace in this world will not make any sense while there is no child unhappy in this world. And the unfortunate children are many, unfortunately in Croatia. It even seems to me that children are just suffering this great economic coup, these great economic opportunities better said, the troubles where everything is thrown out of the market, that just such ruthless consequences children suffer the most. And that's why there are more unhappy children in Croatia. That is why in Croatia there are more and more children who unfortunately raise their hands to themselves. These are the earthquakes that we need to imagine together, and something in this society needs to be changed deeply. The issue of community, the issue of solidarity, is something that is the most, so the lack of such fundamental values of a society that can have some economic pulsation and have some benefit for a short time, but if the fundamental values of each society are neglected, then such a society condemns itself sooner or later. The lawyer rightly speaks of the fundamental right, the right of the child and the violation of those rights, the right to privacy. Unfortunately, here we are, almost no session that does not adopt different international conventions, European conventions, on the protection of these human rights, on the protection of children's rights, we are even passing special laws implementing these conventions, but unfortunately, the more these normative ones seem to be, the more these rights are being violated. Right to privacy. The children are undoubtedly the biggest victims of such injuries. And the injury, in fact, as a consequence of something that they had nothing to do with, mostly the elderly, the most common parents and children are there, unable to stand up to in any way. That's why children suffer unbearable psychological pain. And I say, it's hard because of that, and that's one of the reasons why children raise their hands to themselves. The media would certainly be more sensitive and careful, perhaps for a while after that one thirst to the public, which I don't think is even real, that children are protected as much as possible. It was a long time ago when the media was just opening up, that was before the '90s. In the year, a famous case of famous parents who had some kind of, parent one relationship, it was published in the media, the next day they were just based on stories in the media of the boys of that high school, first grade high school, all drinking champagne from that shoe. The boy was later found hanged in the toilet. We need to be careful about these things. The right to know its own origin and the right to apply for birth is one of the new rights on which it is particularly insisted. Unfortunately, here is our government, or the Ministry of Health, persistently refuses to pass the Law on medically assisted insemination, many women, many young couples go abroad for this reason. So there is a pregnancy, so in Croatia there is a birth. The question is whether this child has real information about his parents, about biological parents. Then what will Minister Primorac or someone else investigate Croatian genetics? So often our women go to the Czech Republic to donate egg cells, go to Austria, go to Ukraine, go to other transition countries that have passed us in that area where Croatia has been at the top of Europe for 20 and 30 years in human reproduction. Right to life with parents and parental care. Well, it's not just when parents get divorced. It's just being watched from the spectrum when there's a physical separation of parents. So what society does for both parents to be, together under the same roof, present in child rearing. They are not today because society and encourages such a situation that just society must be correct in correcting the wrong things that then lead to unwanted consequences. How to make both parents more present with a child since birth? The first way is for a parent, a father to be present in raising a child as soon as the child is almost born. After a few months, to stay home, to be on maternity leave. This should be done and I believe in the satisfaction of both these fathers and these families, and it would certainly be, in general, satisfying to raise a child. This is how the question arises only in the divorce of a child, but then those who are less present, and also because of objective facts, due to lack and regulation, suddenly occur actively in the search for a child with whom they spent very little time when divorce occurs. Then they're full and even in, so to speak for the child because then the child becomes a ball. The Ombudsman is very serious and detailed about the manipulations, the child’s right to meet with and associate with the parents with whom the child does not live. But as well as other frustrations and other spouses, the child becomes otherwise disabled because he interferes with seeing and contacting another parent with whom the child does not live. We were here recently a few days ago discussing educational standards here starting with preschool education, elementary school and high school. We all know that in 2019, 2018, 2020, how many squares each child will have even in the school kitchen. All that we know, it's all going to be and let's boast about what it's going to be. But what is it today? Here on page 55, you can't believe you're reading the 2007 Ombudsman's report for children, but you seem to be reading in the registration passage from our primary school "Childhood and Education of Ivica Kicmanović", so let's listen. Sanitary knots are in terrible condition, and part is located next to the school kitchen itself. Because of the rotten pipes, there's a wastewater spill on the walls. In addition to the unpleasant smell and depletion of the shrubs, the result is a threat to children's health due to possible infection. Children say they prefer to suffer or have an emergency in the school yard rather than at school. The additional reason is that only cold water can be used at school, there is no hot water, etc., school building too tight, the youngest students attend school in the nearby Croatian Army home. What are our inspections doing? I guess they were busy and the ministry was in charge, probably busy with the big and thin perspectives that await us in the far future. But we have to do something, and it's a good thing that every government has a vision. But it's not incomprehensible that we know exactly what we're going to do then that we don't know this and that this doesn't sting our eyes, so we're just going to believe it a little bit if today's a situation like this then it's hard to believe that all that people are going to gold out there in 2020 and some. We still see defeating things in education, working on shifts, in three shifts. A little space, a little space. So it's something that's simple, everyone's even convinced that it's a better condition than when we see what our children's educational rights are to their own youngest. Those with medical rights... [[The speakers speak out loud.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8326	All right, all right. Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Ms. Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8327	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ma, my colleague, speaking of what the ministry does, said it's obvious that we don't mind, that the ministry doesn't mind if I don't quote this quote again from the D.A.'s office report. Oh, my colleagues, they're just the opposite. That's exactly what the ministry is eyeing in the state of some of our schools, unfortunately. Well, that's why we're bringing in a pedagogical standard. If you have read the Ombudsman’s report correctly in this segment of education and education, the Ombudsman prays that the teaching standards should be adopted as soon as possible so as to have a basis for calling the local community and, if necessary, the ministry why it did not create those conditions that children should have in the education system.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8328	Ms. Representative Vesna Škulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8329	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The esteemed attorneys, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I'd like to go on with "If the trees walk," I guess they will in 2020 and some. But let me begin my debate by commending the work of the Ombudsman’s Office for Children. My cooperation with that office is extremely good, to mutual satisfaction. In her report last year, the lawyer made a small step towards children with disabilities. All groups of diagnosis groups have been processed and the termology is respected in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Last year, regional offices opened in Split, Rijeka and Osijek, which I welcome and hope will help reduce children's rights. However, the need to open new offices actually means that violations of children’s rights are a serious problem, that there are many cases like this. Many documents have been brought that protect and promote the rights of the child, and each such document places a special emphasis on sick children and children with disabilities. The most important document is certainly the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The preamble to the Charter of the Rights of the Child, which was adopted on 20 November 1959, reads the sentence: "Humanity owes children the best he has, which is that children have the right to equality, to education, to non-violent education, to free expression of opinion, information and to hear, to protect against economic and sexual exploitation, to play and to free time, to parental care and to special care with difficulties, to children with developmental difficulties and to health." It is very difficult to speak in the context of children's rights when the media is full of headlines in violation of children's rights on any basis. The saddest thing is that it's exactly the state that's bringing in all kinds of child protection programs to the greatest child rights offender. As I have already mentioned, children with difficulties are listed separately in the convention and as it stands, have the right to special care. Unfortunately, by reading the report, I see that applications in the office concerning children with disabilities remain numerous. Real children with difficulties are broken almost at all levels. As recently in the debate on pedagogical standards, I spoke most of the problems of segregating such children by the system, I will therefore quote a part of the text that shows that the Office of the Ombudsman also keeps the need to prevent any segregation and accommodation in the institutions of children with disabilities. So, I quote: "There are still a large number of children with developmental difficulties separated from their biological families and located in various social care institutions. This is often explained by the need for professional treatment of such children, i.e. by their education and education in special institutions. Although the state recognized foster care as a better quality and also a cheaper form of accommodation for these children, the number of such children in foster families remains very small. Children with disabilities located outside institutions represent a particularly sensitive group that requires specific support for life in the community, which not only makes it easier to overcome the social barriers they face but also compensate for the loss in personal development. Just moving children from the institution and putting them into a foster home does not mean that they will receive encouraging living conditions especially when it comes to a child with intellectual difficulties. After such a child enters a foster home, adequate support should be provided for both the child and his family in order to adapt to family life more successfully. We see from this text that institutions are not a solution, and new forms of care are too slow and too small. Children with difficulties and their parents face many problems. Late diagnosis, long-term disability procedure, which automatically means we're stealing valuable rehabilitation procedures from these children. This also means that I cannot exercise neither the right to a personal disability nor other social spectrum rights. The parents of these children do not have free time to deal with their children because they have a sick child, for whom there are no living rooms, kindergartens or support systems, they must work and re-imagine every day where with a child during that time. Of the 85 reports of violations of children's rights with disabilities, 33 were from the field of education. This is another proof that the education system is not open to all groups of children. Most schools are not available to children with motor skills, blind children's textbooks are over three thousand kunas, there is no assistant translator for deaf children. In order for the absurd to reach its peak, it happens that parents of children with difficulty rule out their child from the education system before graduation, so as not to get some calling, because the future is uncertain about employment. If the child finishes school despite the Professional Rehabilitation and Employment Fund, the job will mostly never, just 270 kuna benefits for the unemployed. If he doesn't finish school, he'll get 700 kuna at best or at an increased amount of thousands of kuna. But the problem isn't just there. In addition to interrupted education, inability to employ, total social exclusion of children with difficulties, with their fees and financial support of the entire family. Please, buddy, just a little quiet. Furthermore, the systems most infringing children’s rights with disabilities are health care and social care. Social rights are abolished from the area of protection of children with disabilities quietly. And when parents notice it's too late. For example. The compensation for transportation to the hospital was first abolished, so our pressure was restored, that is, to ours, I mean the opposition, but only for one parent companion. We know that it is very difficult for a parent or a companion to take care of himself during the journey of a child with a severe disability. Irony is that these systems should take the most care of children with disabilities, from the onset of disability or disease. It is a shame that children with difficulties can only get most of their specific rights through humanitarian actions. In this way, we expose the children to the public, and once again we express them as a humanitarian problem, not as the obligation of the state to meet all the needs of children to raise their quality of life to the highest level, from expensive medicines, specific orthopedic aids, textbooks on the razor and beyond. Are we really a society that solves everything over 060 phones, and the Ministry of Finance hypocritically disowns VAT in favour of action. So about the state participates in solving problems, not just children, but other categories. According to the report, very few positive changes occurred in relation to these proposals and recommendations to improve children's rights with difficulties in these systems. The report elaborated a violation of the rights of children with difficulties according to the specificities of their difficulties. Because of the inertness of the system, it turns out that the state is creating institutes and opening offices so that our citizens can appeal to whom. Once again, I warn the Government that the state of the right of persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia is at an alarming level, putting a special emphasis on children with disabilities and finally finding a systematic solution for all persons with disabilities regardless of their age, gender and disability. Once again, I would like to thank the D.A.'s attorney for a good and comprehensive report. And we as a society, do we really of all the goods that humanity owes children the best it has, we can offer that endlessly long correspondence with various offices, long-term skills, a state that avoids creating positive and enforceable legislation. No, we're offering a newspaper page on sad children's fates and call centres and please call number 060. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8330	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8331	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Attorney, colleagues and colleagues. I'd just like to brief a few sentences on two things in this report. Otherwise, at first I will immediately say that I am in favour of this report and for the past year as well as the overall work of the office of the attorney-general and her associates. I would like to warn you a few sentences, and it is related to the introduction of a health education programme in primary and secondary schools. In fact, there has been a lot of debate in the last year, including in this Parliament at meetings of various committees on programme implementation, experimental programme of health education and all the obstacles that have arisen, and it is related to the programmes of the two associations that appeared in the competition of the competent ministry, the GROZD Association and the Forum for Freedom of Education. What I would like to warn you about, because that is what the Ombudsman is talking about in this report, and yesterday we also talked about the report by the Advocate General on Gender Equality, which is ignoring the responsible Ministry of Education, the Ombudsman's institution for children when it comes to talking and providing information regarding the introduction of an experimental programme. After the opinion of the Ministry of Health and Social Care of 30 October 2007, the Ombudsman states that they have concluded from the materials that the Ombudsmans for children have been given in the light that most of the recommendations applied in the way the programme was introduced, clarity in the explanation and planning of the human resources and evaluation of this Health Education and Education Programme for the elementary school in January 2007. It is particularly worrying and inadmissible that children and parents of primary school are deprived of the choice because only the "GROZD" programme will be implemented in primary school, resulting in children whose parents do not agree with this programme being denied information on this important topic. I also felt that when we had discussions on this subject and at committee meetings it was unacceptable that it was essentially such an important topic, such an important area of education and education as health education, the government, or the ministry, would leave it to certain associations. It doesn't matter what they're called and how many there are now, because health care is too important to stay outside the domain of the ministry. In early November last year, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports made decisions on the selection of the Association "GROZD" programme for primary schools and the Association "GROZD" and the Forum for Freedom of Education for secondary schools. The Ombudsman states that at the end of 2007 and the Office of Commissioners for Human Rights of the Council of Europe also showed interest in the introduction of these programmes and requested an assessment from the Ombudsman regarding the introduction of these programmes. To this end, the Ombudsman states that the requested meeting with the Minister of Science, Education and Sports, as well as with the Minister of Health and Social Care, has never been achieved. I find it inadmissible, as I said, that this relationship between the Ministry of Education is also inadmissible when it comes to gender equality attorneys because somewhere there is essentially a lot of uncertainty about the final what the programme actually looks like primarily when I talk about the GRUZD association. The second thing I want to say is a few sentences, which is part of which the Ombudsman also states, which is the behavior of young people, i.e. the consumption of alcohol in young people. Somewhere, all the research that has been done in our country and not just in the world shows that from year to year young children are actually starting to consume alcohol. And we can't just observe whether there is a child's violent behavior after this, but I think it's an extremely big problem, which is too little attention in Croatian society and too little attention. In fact, this is my reason to warn myself that all the existing legal provisions that we have regarding the ban on alcohol consumption and the ban on selling alcohol to young people actually do absolutely not work, which means that children can buy alcohol freely in stores because of course traders will never ask them how old they are, or that they will eventually show their identity card or some kind of card. What's the State Inspectorate doing? Of course, I suppose he's also powerless at all because the number of inspectors we have absolutely does not meet the needs of that. Furthermore, in our cafes children when going out will be cheaper to buy them a bottle of beer because, for example, Karlovac or the popular "yellow" half a liter stands 10 or 11 kuna in cafes in Tkalča but one juice will cost 13, 14 or 15 kuna. That's what I'm saying about Coca-Cola, Fanta and stuff without saying that 17 or 18 kunas are gonna cost juices. So the young who go out he'll be easier then and for the sake of saving, so to speak, reach out for a bottle of beer. I'm aware that beer belongs to me as food if I'm not wrong with us, but beer is an alcoholic drink. Beer has alcohol in it, and we beer neatly, beer commercials we watch on all our TVs, we're bombed especially now that the World Cup is coming with these commercials that are often and violent, and then I ask you more in these commercials entries and prayers. Children and youths can only conclude that it is in fact desirable to consume a beer that is alcohol. So it's desirable to consume alcohol because it means community, it means victory, it means sport, etc. Otherwise, I'm horrified against having any kind of alcohol attached to any sport. I believe I'm actually very utopian and, of course, there's no way because of the different interests, because of the money, etc. But I warn that this problem is present, and I think it's getting bigger. So, inadequate or nothing to say to control the children who buy alcohol in our store, the disproportionate price ratio between alcoholic beverages and juices, by saying that they are also hot drinks, a cup of hot drinks is cheaper than a bottle of juice. And this extremely aggressive and violent beer commercial that goes in all those times that children watch neatly. When it comes to selling alcohol in stores, I urge that something be done in that part to coordinate all those who should take care of it, so also traders, both the police and the State Inspectorate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8332	Thank you. And Mrs. Representative Branko Crlenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8333	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Madam Attorney, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Analyzing the Children's Attorney's Office's Report to conclude that some shortcomings in the order of certain institutions are repeated. As noted in previous reports, a large number of problems remain in the work of the social care centre regarding a insufficient number of professional workers, insufficient professional support from the competent authority and, in a number of cases, lead to insufficient engagements and superficial and misjudges. I'd like to point out here what we're all witnessing, which is that social care centres are on call for every social problem in the country. They are guilty even when the center in a certain matter has no authority to act. It is also important to say that expert centre workers are doing a responsible and extremely difficult job, that they are heavily overloaded. I will only give an example of the Social Care Centre of Sibenik, which is missing twelve more professionals under the rule. How this situation has been going on for many years without the prospect of its resolution probably with the right feeling of extraordinary resistance when they are referred to the center as a place where they should find answers to their questions and where they will get help in solving the problem. In my debate, I will refer to certain violations of children's rights which I consider to be the most traumatic of the consequences that leave for the proper development of the child. One of the important segments of child rights violations is the manipulation of the child's right to meet and associate with a parent he does not live with. The divorce of parents to children is a stressful experience most often accompanied by feelings of sadness, fear, uncertainty, and even guilt. By manipulation, we mean making it difficult or making it impossible for the quality of this right to be achieved under various unfounded excuses and influences by the parents with whom the child lives and who the child is exposed and who imposes on him. Better integration and cooperation of all institutions involved in child protection are extremely important. In order to achieve a higher level of child protection in divorce procedures and parental care decisions, the need for more effective judicial procedures with additional sensitisation and education of judges from areas related to psychosocial aspects of divorce and the specificities of psychophysical development of the child as well as their reactions in the particularly stressful situation of divorce of parents is indicated. During 2007, the office received 235 applications concerning violence against children. Every form of violence against a child has its weight and leaves lasting consequences, but sexual violence is far the most severe form of violence against a child. Although traditionally believed to be sexual abusers of children to be unknown, numerous statistics show that a large number of sexual delicacies occur right in the family, in the home of the perpetrator or the victim himself, i.e. in about 80 to even 90% of cases, the victim knows the unsub. In this regard, abusers are people who are close to children, with whom children are emotionally bound, with whom they trust, and with whom the child expects protection. Recognizing the trend of growth, the Office of the Advocate General for Children expressed the view that in the Republic of Croatia a single national registry of perpetrators of sexual violence against children should be established and that the Convention against the Protection of Children against Sexual Abuse and Sexual Abuse provides for the collection and storage of data on perpetrators of sex delicacies to the harm of children. Also one problem that social care centres face daily in their work, this is a problem related to the fact that there is currently no adequate accommodation in Croatia for children with behavioral disorders and associated mental disorders. The psychiatric hospital for children and youth in Kukuljevic provides services in crisis situations but it is the only one so children from all over Croatia are directed to this institution both on diagnostics and on short-term treatment after which they have to be fired and the treatment is not finished. From this point on, once again, the necessity of a better connection between systems arises. First of all, social care, health, education and justice systems. The main problems must be solved at ministerial level and then resolved to lower levels of centres, homes, schools and hospitals. It is also important to say something about protecting against the economic exploitation of children. The D.A.'s office has been self-initiated about a tragic event in which 12 firefighters have lost their lives in the fiery ring by putting out a fire on the great Kornat. Among which are two minors. The Ministry of the Interior asked for a quick review of the circumstances in which children suffered and the determination of the responsibilities of those who did not care about their age sent to death. By membership and active participation in a voluntary fire-fighting society, young people can learn much about the dangers of fire, the implementation of fire protection measures, fire-fighting and the rescue of people and property threatened by fire, and the rescue of people and property during natural and other accidents. In this way, they can grow up to be responsible members of a society that selflessly helps others. But by bringing minors into direct danger, in a way that exposes them to death, they cannot and must not be tolerated. The fact that children took part in the ceasefire voluntarily, wanting to make a courageous contribution to the rescue of property, cannot possibly be an excuse. It is recommended to prevent future similar events from participating in fire-fighting youth, i.e. to prevent child exposure from being killed. The above information from the State Inspectorate for 2007 and information on cases of illegal employment and child labour in the context of the tragic event and the death of children in the fire-extinguishment indicates the need to raise awareness of those who sometimes do not even think illegally of children. The Ombudsman’s office for children during 2007 as well as previous years followed the way media reports on children were reported. Especially his negative aspects. According to reports, I've arrived from the citizens. The most frequently reported violation of the child's right to privacy, disrespecting the dignity of the child, children are vulnerable and inappropriately exposed in the media always further traumatises and negatively affects their development, can stimulate unwanted reactions of the environment, make them intimately available to everyone, expose them to traumatic evaluations, unpleasant comments, and perhaps even endanger their safety. Many institutions are passive and in larger cases act as though they are the release of responsibility for child protection. The failure of the system and the failure to take measures by the competent institutions gives rise to the impression that bodies established at different levels and with more concrete responsibilities and powers in protecting the interests of children expect that someone else solves problems for them. The scope of the existence of a parallel system is opened which, by transferring the responsibility of the participants, promotes legal uncertainty. It is not good for many institutions, organisations, associations and experts to keep quiet about a particular problem. Forgetting it at your own risk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8334	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by Ms. Nedeljka Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8335	Thank you. I am correcting the incorrect quote of Mrs. Crljenko's representative, who says, which speaks of insufficient professional support for social care centres as well as the failure of the system. It's just an incorrect assumption. Because here, the data tells us that over the past two years, the resolution ministry, the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare has employed more than two hundred professionals as well as technical support in terms of getting a vehicle. And the fact is, the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity has also opened up family centres. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8336	Thank you. And the final review of the Ombudsman for children, Mrs. Mila Jelavic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8337	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to thank all of you for all these discussions that we learned yesterday and today, because they are on the trail of what we do, they are on the trail of fulfilling the functions of the Advocate's Office for Children. We experience ourselves, and that's how the law defines us as a measure of authority in favour of children, as someone who warns about shortcomings, asks for corrections, asks for a full solution for children, looks for the best possible solutions. Our demands in this regard are and must be maximum. They will also be in the future. I feel the same as all my associates that if we remain silent, if we do not warn, if we do not seek, if we do not highlight the shortcomings that they may remain silent, they will not be given sufficient attention. I must point out that all this stuff we write, we do, we warn that it's about the problems of the people who are coming to us. I have already pointed out several times that we do not have people who do not have a problem, whose family situation, the condition of a child in school, sports or elsewhere is good, does not seek intervention. We just don't work with it. We know there are such situations, we respect them. But we would like those who appear to us to be in the same position that treatment and these children in the cases where we work actually be at the same level as those who don't have them. Our recommendations here have been mentioned several times. I must point out that recommendations are important and that the report clearly states who respects them, who does not respect them. The report shows who ignores our recommendations and who respects them. Our recommendations always go in a way to protect the best interests of the child in accordance with the regulations that the Republic of Croatia has brought within, but also to those that we have accepted in our legal order of the international ones, so that we must apply according to the Constitution and whose definitions and standards we must also respect. To mention alcohol and in the context of this beer. The problem that we are very often witnessing in the media is emerging in the public, incidents, various events, children's suffering. What I ask you about this is to support that through the Law on Trade, whatever beer is food according to someone's classification, to introduce a ban on selling and beer to minors, or children. Because the commercials we're witnessing are very aggressively calling for purchase, and there's no ban. Of course, at the price and everything else, she's attractive to children, because the kids get drunk from beer. Unfortunately, we read the consequences very often in the media as they are and what this possibility of purchase and consumption actually causes. I will touch the safety of children, i.e. the transport of school buses and conditions in which every day many children are transported to school and back, but not only to school, but also to various activities, excursions and everything they go to. According to the information available to us at this time, Croatia has only 32 buses that meet the prescribed standards, which is about markage, about regularity, about age and about what. As representatives, I am asking you to participate in your local environments in any body where possible to influence the fact that this regulation on child safety and on the provision of proper buses or other means of transport is indeed ensured in accordance with the regulations. Do we really need more children's injuries, and then we'll only react. I think it's not enough and it's not good to react later when accidents happen and when our children get hurt. The terms should be provided before. That is why cooperation and the state is necessary, meaning both local and state levels and the resolution ministry, as well as all those involved in ensuring these conditions that our children are safe and that we know that we have eliminated all the risks and all the dangers that this is not happening. Once again calling and actually recommending the adoption of this report and calling for co-operation I thank you for the debates, and I hope that the recommendations that we make here are repeated several times, that we will come into a situation where they will be more respected, that the proposals we propose will be incorporated into regulations, in laws, sublegal acts more respected than they have been so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8338	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-08-0.u8339	We are moving on to the report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2007. The debate is closed. I am voting on the report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2007. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that most of the votes, 78 votes for and 2 abstentions have been accepted a report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2007.
