ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13927	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. I am really sorry that I had to apply my business law and, through interpretation, try to answer the parliamentary question that I asked the Minister of Finance at the “current morning” at the beginning of this year. Since I did not even get an answer to "the current morning", and I also asked for a written reply to the interpretations by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament was the only opportunity to defend my right to ask questions, but also to fight for the right to answer the question I asked. I remind you that at the “current afternoon” the Minister of Finance asked me to give me information on who of the state officials and other executive officials has the right and benefits of official business cards and how much money was spent using these cards during 2007. The contents of the questions in writing 24 hours earlier, I announced to the minister which I later asked. I didn't get the answer to my question. In an attempt to answer my question, the minister mentioned only two facts, that there is a decision that regulates the issue since 2000 and provided information on how much he himself spent using a business credit card. However, I did not ask a question about the decision or when it was made, or how much he personally spent using a business credit card, and I really had no intention of asking him alone, just for him. So the question was neither personal nor in the context of my suspicion of possible abuse. Because neither in question nor in the light of the question did I insinuate any illegal use, nor expressed my suspicion that only the Minister of Finance, Mr Shucker, used and spent money from the state budget through business credit cards. The Minister of Finance shall be responsible for the current morning, but shall not, later or in writing, be referred to Article 183. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and did not declare himself incompetent to answer my parliamentary question, and he could. Therefore, if indeed the Minister of Finance is not competent to answer my question, if he does not have such information, he could have used his right under Article 183 simply not to answer and give me a guideline, i.e. information or an answer that the data I request is not of his jurisdiction. However, in a written reply, and I have received even two written answers that I consider to be the first against or contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament since 20 March of this year when the Minister of Finance addressed me personally, not through the President of the Croatian Parliament, as ordered by the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, and with that answer, he has provided me with a decision that regulates, among other things, the spending of the state budget by using the 2000 business credit cards, noting that the Government has not changed that decision. I don't know if it's supposed to be praise, self-gratitude, or some important fact in answer to my question. And the third finding of the same answer, that the State audit did not find any irregularities in its work. This was evident from the State Audit report every year when we discussed it. However, I also received a second answer that this time was in line with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament when the minister provided me with a reply through the President of the Croatian Parliament who was sent only a day later from the Ministry of Finance, in which he only writes to re-deliver the 2000 Decision. So the subject of my question was not the content of the decision, nor when it was made, nor which government made it, nor who was then in the government, nor did I even ask why the decision in the meantime was not in line with the laws, and it was supposed to be not only in 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, but also in 2001. So, less than a year after it was brought in. I also received a lot of answers from the finance minister through the media, so one of the answers I found in the paper was "Let Lesar study the 2007 report on the implementation of the 2007 budget and let the answers to his question look up in this Report.". The report came in the meantime. We haven't discussed it yet, maybe we will. However, by examining this vast material, I did not really find an item that would indicate or display the amount of funds spent for those purposes. I may not really know how to read the report, but I may have some other material, but I haven't been able to find it. The government was manifested as to the interpretation submitted on time and in writing. And what did the government write? The government finds that contrary to the text of the interpretation, Finance Minister Ivan Schuker believes, respecting the prescribed procedure in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, has answered the parliamentary question. I was reviewing the phonogram of these sessions and carefully reading the answers that I received in writing, so even two received and indeed neither in the phonogram nor in the written answers to my question. It was also accompanied by a reply to the representative by a decision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the conditions of use of official personal cars, mobile phones, regular airline lines, business credit cards, means of representation and means of official travel by the government of the previous term of office in 2000 and which this Government has not changed for eight years. What is the value of the answer in which it is found that the government has not changed that decision for eight years. Furthermore, in the government's statement, he writes the following. For the legal and proper planning of budget implementation, as well as for the way in which budgets are used through business credit cards, each Head of the Budgetary is responsible, and we know that. But I really thought that at the Ministry of Finance there was data for all the users of the state budget, especially when a report on the implementation of the budget is made and that data or that information can be obtained in one place. By this reply or by this part of the answer, the Government therefore tells me that I ask each minister for the information in person. In my question, I told the officials and officials in the executive office. In addition to the ministries, the agency's bodies, offices and institutions are included under the authority of a particular ministry. So should I ask them for that information directly? The government further finds that the audit carried out has not identified irregularities. The government of the Republic of Croatia allows representatives of the Croatian Parliament twice a year to submit a report on the implementation of the state budget. Again, the government tells me to read again the report on the implementation of a budget in which there is no such data. And the final quote from the government's reply is: "The formal alignment of the name of state officials in the Decision on the rules that have been adopted in the meantime is under way.". So here this sentence the Government points to the fact that the decision really wasn't in line with the amended or newly passed laws from the time this government took power to this day. Indeed, in that decision of 2000 under state officials and officials, and in the sense of this decision the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister of the Government, is listed, so it was one function, one person, and the Deputy Prime Minister. And they're classified in so-called. First rank state officials. The second ranks include the Minister, Deputy Minister, Mayor and Mayor of Zagreb. The post of Vice-President and Deputy Prime Minister was abolished in 2003, immediately after the Croatian Parliament's constitutional session that year. Wasn't that when this decision was supposed to be brought into line? I am now asking the question if the deputy minister writes here and the decision did not comply with the law, does this mean that the secretary of state did not have the right to business credit cards or any other rights that this decision lays down because this decision did not state. There's no State Secretary here. Mayor and Mayor of Zagreb, why were the mayors and mayors of Zagreb the subject of this decision in 2000? Because even in 2000, the mayors, the mayors, who were subjugated here, were otherwise Deputy Mayor and Mayor of Zagreb, were civil servants, because in 2000, according to the Law on Local Self-Government, the county was the body of regional self-government and state administration, which was changed in 2001, in mid-2001, and after the mayors and mayor of Zagreb were deleted from the category of state officials, they were to be excluded from this decision and not. Third rank Deputy Prime Minister, Head of State Administration and Chief State Inspector, Secretary of Ministry, Assistant Minister, Vice-Chair and Deputy Mayor of the City of Zagreb. So this third rank was supposed to be in line with all the laws we've been passing in the meantime. In the fourth rank is Deputy Secretary of Government, Director of the Ministry, Deputy Director of State Administration, Assistant Secretary of Government, Assistant Director in the Ministry System, etc. in the meantime, all of those categories have become civil servants. You remember the amendments to the law at the end of the last term, as well as in this term, but especially in the last term when everything that was in the state officials was moved to state officials. So even then, no one in the government remembered that this decision was in line with the laws we were making in the meantime. This decision provides for the right to business and credit cards, I quote: "The right to use business credit cards is reserved by first and second-ranking state officials." Furthermore, the right to use business credit cards is also given to state officials and civil servants who receive the special written approval of the Prime Minister. Special written approval of the Prime Minister. What state officials have been given the right to use business credit cards since the moment this decision was made? No one can read that out of a decision unless they get specific information. And I remind you that in my question, I have not only asked for government officials but also for the officers who are the subject of this decision. The approval referred to in paragraph 2 of this point shall be deposited with the Secretariat of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So there's documentation. Someone could review the deposited consent and see if there were circumstances in the meantime where a civil servant would lose or in the meantime get that right. What is the purpose of business credit cards? I quote the decision: "business credit cards can be used to pay all costs if these costs are covered by travel orders for travel in the country and abroad as well as for paying other costs for which persons referred to in points 12.1 and 2. are entitled to the provisions of this decision. Therefore, for the purposes of covering official costs or the costs of official travel and other costs to which they are entitled. These other costs are among other costs and representations. Who's to blame that the 8-year decision that regulates this area is not in accordance with the laws? Is there anyone in the government or has there ever been anyone in all governments who should have made sure that decisions that regulate benefits, privileges or material rights are in line with laws that change in the meantime? By asking a question and looking for that information, I had two facts in mind. First, if I have the right to know the right of parliamentary representatives and the Croatian public, it has the right to see the transparency of using the money of the state budget to the last kuna. And since that information in the documents coming to the Parliament didn't have any business law, I asked the finance minister for the information. A few years ago, a member of the government in Sweden resigned because she bought a chocolate, baby diaper, a pack of baby diapers and a pack of cigarettes on her business card. And after two days of returning from the official road the money she spent, deposited or deposited on the budget. However, it had to resign because the government estimated that it had misused the position using a credit card for private purposes for EUR 10, 20. And that was a normal way of acting as a member of the government where they found that someone had used their rights for private purposes. That's Sweden. In contrast, in Croatia, a representative in the Croatian Parliament does not have the right to obtain information on the amount of money spent and the list of persons using these cards. Not opening up a debate about whether it was abuse. Not opening an argument who and why he got it right. And even at that moment without opening a debate on whether anyone who is not listed in the decision had the right to use any benefit that this decision determines. And the very fact that I requested that information was either seen as the position of a personal attack on a minister whose question was asked or politicized. If the answer had come, that data would probably have lasted a minute and the interest of the public satisfied as well as my interest at the moment of asking questions. Another fact that was very important to me is the anti-corruption programme brought by the Parliament in 2006 but also the newly adopted anti-corruption strategy brought back by this same Croatian Parliament. And let me remind you in this strategy as the latest document of the Croatian Parliament there is a chapter: "Right to Access Information". Thus, the anti-corruption strategy, the right to information and access information is treated as one of the anti-corruption measures that must be present in the country. Whether it's a citizen asking for information, a journalist or a parliamentary representative. So if the right to access information is one of the measures that we have written in the fight against corruption is it lawful to say: No, we will not give you that information. And it's no one's fault the decision isn't in line with the law. Because we don't have to follow the laws if we decide. The strategy has another chapter called Public Finance. Also in the objectives of anti-corruption measures in Public Finance, it reads: "To strengthen accountability and transparency in the business of budget users at national and local level". Transparency. We had these days at the debate many laws that the government has explained by limiting so far some of the rights of local and regional self-government that it wants to have insight and transparency in budgeting, use, borrowing and everything else. Whether the information in one item of each user’s budget is a matter of transparency, or in what other way, if not through the parliamentary question, a parliamentary representative may come up with the information he is interested in. I can address any minister and any head of the state body in which this right is used or which I assume is the right to use. But I don't know if anyone's using those business credit cards and out, outside of this decision. But if so, I ask the question why the Ministry of Finance is reporting and submitting to the Parliament a report on the implementation of the state budget and how that all other positions and information is available only to those concerned, i.e. the one in whose answer could be seen by name and last name in the rank of officials and officials who have used and how much money they have spent. By not answering that question, it gives me the right to doubt that something is wrong, it gives me the right to doubt that decisions are used by those who use business credit cards and those who do not have the right to do so and those who are intended to use those who are past the decision. And so long as I don't get the answer, I'll doubt it. The only answer and correct data, the list of all users and the amount of funds spent, can prove to me that everything is legal, legal and fair. And that in Croatia no one who had that card bought chocolates, children's diapers and cigarettes as did a member of the Swedish government who had to resign for that reason. I want to believe that interest in these data exists also with the Croatian public. I am sure that the data is given so that there will be no Croatian public, no taxpayers, no citizens concerned about why the answer is not given. The Rules of Procedure foresee, so when a representative is not satisfied with the response through impelation, he tries to get an answer. In the text of the interpretations submitted other than the finding of the situation, we have also proposed three conclusions that the Croatian Parliament would draw. First. I propose that the Croatian Parliament finds that Mr. Ivan Shuker, by not answering the question of the MPs, violated Articles 182 and 188. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Second. It is up to the Minister of Finance, Mr. Ivan Shuker, to deliver within 15 days to the Croatian Parliament in writing all the data required in the matter of this interpretation. So we repeat the request to finally get that information. And a third. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is tasked with harmonising the decision under the law within 30 days of the date of adoption. In response to the government written on 21 May, it states that the harmonisation of the decision is ongoing. It's July 11th. Is the decision in accordance with the laws? I checked the government's websites this morning. I couldn't find her. So, conditionally I'm saying, maybe I'm just as dumb as I am as I am, and I'm not capable of being on the computer, so I couldn't find it. But I didn't find her. So, conditionally, I claim that the decision to this day is not in line with the laws. In 2000, when the decision was made, the government decided, and the legal possibility that it would not be published in "The People's Newspaper". So the government used legal law and decided that this decision would not be published in “The People’s Newspaper. ” I want to believe that this government will be braver and publish its new decision in the "National Journal" making it accessible to all interested people. But I note, since writing the government's reply, it's been almost two months and new decisions, making decisions, changing and supplementing decisions, I haven't seen or known, and now I'm expressing my suspicion that it's even in sync. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13928	Thank you very much. Does the government's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Mr. Minister, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13929	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. It's very strange that the minister calls for responsibility if he follows the law. I would remind you of the provisions of Article 5. The budget law passed by the coalition government. This coalition government is without any evil intentions or anything, but simply to find out when it was brought and nothing else. Therefore, Article 5 states that the Government, i.e. the Headship, is responsible to its representative bodies for planning and implementing the state budget, which it reports on the manner and regulations of the law. Therefore, in the form in which the state budget was adopted in this High House in exactly the same form with completely identical positions, a report shall be sent to the Croatian Parliament. And if anyone thinks that planning the state budget on level four is not good enough for them to show up more analyticalally, then they know how it's done. However, what is also in this law and this was the intensity and intention of now the coalition government at least as I remember as an opposition representative increased the responsibility of all the users of the state budget. Because neither the Prime Minister nor the Vice-Presidents of the Government nor the Minister of Finance can know about the spending of money, the way money is spent in certain ministries because the services and individual ministers determine and their responsibility is regulated in Article 122. Paragraph 1 states that the Head of the Budgetary is responsible, responsible for the planning and execution of a part of the budget. This is clearly defined by law. The second thing, material rights as well as us in politics, and so on the material rights that the leaders have, the employees of companies are regulated again by the laws passed by this High House, this is the Tax on Income and Profit Tax and these material rights as regards both official travel and virtually identical. What I answered in this High House was because the question was whether there was a decision and how much money was spent. What I answered here and I said how much I, as head of the Ministry of Finance, spent money on a business card, how much was spent by the secretary of state because at the time there were only two state officials at the Ministry of Finance, with the emphasis that my business card costs were exclusively hotel accommodation costs. Because when you come out, any hotel you can't get a room, you can't register if you don't give a credit card. So it's an elemental business matter. And maybe somebody got in the way because I knew in lipo how much money I spent on my business card, I knew in lipo, because I didn't spend a dime beyond what I had to. And it is clear exactly what regular trips the finance minister and delegation are going to each year depending on which moment it is connected. These are two annual congregations in Washington or autumn is usually every second year, other World Banks of the IMF, which is the annual EBRD assembly in 2004, 05, 06, were still negotiations with the IMF, and so I said I spent 47,000 and 295 kuna and 93 June on my business card. Is that my sin? The decision, I also said at that session of the Croatian Parliament that the decision was inherited by the former government. I didn't say it was published in the National Journal, because at that point I didn't know it, because I couldn't know, I didn't know it was going to be such a question about how it was conceived by Agent Lesar. Why that decision was not then published in the National Journal, nor can I wish, nor would it be correct of me to comment on it. But the decision was made as an official document at the coalition government in 2000. It was known exactly when the names of individual heads of state changed that the deputy minister had become in principle a State Secretary. But also, Mr. Lesar, I can show you in my ministry when I became a minister that I had passed a rule on using exactly what you were talking about both business cards and cell phones and all the other expenses who had the right to do so. And if you asked me to, I'd give it to you as Minister of Finance. However, even when there was a debate on amending the budget law the other day, unfortunately, many good things were not noticed in that budget because we were discussing one benign thing that you would see, now that the budget was voted upon, it was not necessary at all because there was in principle only one provision concerning the borrowing of units of local self-government. However, what is good in the amendments to this Budget Act and about three years of planning and about a far more responsible relationship with taxpayers' funds in the Republic of Croatia is not written. As far as the media is concerned, my only answer to you, Mr. Lesar, was at the moment, because you first claimed there was no decision, that's what you said here in the Parliament speaker. When you were clearly told there was a decision, you said that after you didn't get the answer on time. And then you were also told that the decision was delivered in time according to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. But what I would also like to say, you were talking about corruption, you were talking about transparency, this Ministry of Finance is the first government to make one brochure available to all Croatian citizens, who can see, is written in a very simple language, where all Croatian citizens can see in principle what their money is spent on. And this brochure was not intended to issue any make-up of us from the Ministry of Finance, but here, there is also the head of the local self-government units from both the ruling and opposition parties, so they will be able to see that all their leaders, therefore, the mayors, the mayors got these.... And that's the same thing that says about the openness of the state budget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You said you didn't see any information on how much was spent on the cards. Well, you couldn't even see it because that cost is not even planned as such separately, but is planned for material costs, the cost of official travel, as already defined by the cost of political spending, in the spending of funds. When we talk about corruption, this government had political power I wouldn't want anyone to get hurt again, I wouldn't want to say that my colleagues before me had no desire to bring something similar, a personal identification number, no matter what they call it, it ended up like that, but this government had the political power to bring something like that. I'm saying, I don't want to criticize the previous governments at all, because there was a law that unfortunately didn't pass in this House in 2003. And that's something that wasn't controversial and that I never slowed down. You see, Mr. Lesar, when I came to the Ministry of Finance, I didn't do anything about being my predecessors and how they spent money or you'll ever hear it from me. For the simple reason why, if we have passed the State Audit Act and we have said that the state audit is that state institution, independent, which controls the spending of the state budget funds. And if you don't find any objections to what you're saying, then I don't know which institutions in this country are supposed to be controlling anymore. And for your information, the Ministry of Finance has received an unconditional opinion on the spending of budget funds directly in the jurisdiction of me as Minister of Finance. So these are attempts without any intention of de-polemising, but simply to defend the profession and defense of the position of the finance minister and also the responsibility of anyone to whom this High House has given taxpayers money to manage. Nothing else. For all those who were in the executive power know well how public competitions were carried out, how the money was spent with them. And if you'd take a closer look at those legal provisions then you'd understand why my answer was the way it was. I'll say here, the Ministry of Finance isn't accounting. When you look at the structure of the state administration, then you will see that every body, starting with the ministry through the agency, has a special office to run financial affairs. But we did make a big step, and there was supposed to be one big political force for that, which is the structure of the state treasury. Therefore, the Ministry of Finance cannot pay a single expenditure of the budgetary user until it is entered into the system by the budgetary user. But also today, all budget users practically know when their obligations will be paid. Not just a date and a day, but an hour and that's the result of the Treasury. Also, Mr. Lesar should know when planning the budget every budgetary user enters their positions in the treasury and some also overstep what they are entitled to, but I as Minister of Finance or my people in planning and preparing the budget and the Treasury cannot change any of that item, so the budgetary user who entered it must change it. And if you saw in the new Budget Law, what do we want to achieve? We want to achieve greater flexibility in the ability to spend funds, budget funds with budget users, we want their greater responsibility, but also, regardless of what is proposed to adopt a third-level budget, we said that all reports that will go towards this higher house, and also towards the Croatian public, must be on the fourth level. The third level is because of greater flexibility that we finally all run away from what no one likes. Here, there are colleagues who were in the last government and will admit, just as I'm going to say none of us are happy when at the end of the year he has to redistribute from position to position. And from the findings of the State Audit, you'll see that this was done and passed by the coalition and governments before that and this government. So these are some of the reasons why they asked us to go to such a change in the state budget. Something else, too. If you look at the report from Brussels, if you look at the reports from Washington, then you will see that Croatia has received recognition for the regulation of its public finances. It's a confession you gentlemen can dispute as much as you want, but you can't erase it because it's official documents that came to both the Prime Minister and me as Minister of Finance. And what I stand for, which I have stood for as an opposition representative, and for what I have stood for in all these 4.5 years as Minister of Finance and I will stand for in the future, and that was also my position while I was mayor of a city, Croatian citizens have the right to know what their money and structure and state and finances of local self-government have to be on right now. And I don't want to mention things right now, but if you could look a little bit better at one ministry headed by your former party, I don't think you'd have any argument about what you said together. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13930	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13931	Thank you. First correction, first I'm correcting the minister's allegations that there is no decision. I've been quoting a phonogram since that day, "a similar decision exists in the government, but I haven't been able to find it." Secondly, did I ask if there was a decision? I quote ministers, "I ask the question, Mr. Minister, which of the officials and other executive officials has the right and benefit of the official business card and how much money they spent using" and I only asked that. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13932	Thank you. We don't have to yell at each other at all. We all do. I'm opening a debate. And she's the first Mrs. Brankica Crlenko on behalf of the SDP club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13933	I thank Mr. President, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. There are a number of reasons why the SDP club supported this interpretation. We believe that Minister Shuker, ignoring the issue of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, has shown his disdain for the institution of parliament. It also showed how much this government cares about the transparency and availability of information that the public has the right to know about. Given the haughtiness of this government in spending taxpayers' money, it is no wonder that such data is hidden from the public. Just remember Verona. We have bills, we don't have bills, we've lost accounts, we've shown accounts, and none of us have seen accounts. Citizens pay high energy prices, food, they get worse every day. The purchasing power of Croatian workers, and the pensioners that we don't even speak every day is getting smaller. Inflation is growing, and the socially insensitive HDZ-led government considers it irrelevant and unnecessary to answer a simple question. Which of the officials and executive officials has the right to use official credit cards and how much money did they spend using them in 2007. It's a simple question. It does not belong to the domain of national security, it is not and must not be official or state secret, and certainly not military. Then what's the haughtiness for? Is this transparency in spending the budget you swear on in front of European officials? Transparency and openness to the citizens who pay you. Before the 2005 presidential elections on all bells in the expensive big poster campaign, you promoted a website that still exists today and is called www.open door.hr. Who are they open to? Ministers for spending money without a bill? But of course for you is propaganda One you think, the other you speak, the third you do. And on this simple question, you show all the haughtiness towards your own citizens, according to the Parliament you are obliged to account for. I will repeat what Mr. Lesar has already said, and I consider it important. I remind you of all the well-known story that the Swedish minister has resigned from her post in time, because she paid the chocolate with her official card even though the money was returned neatly. In Croatia, citizens are denied credit card usage data from government officials, and resignations do not even occur to anyone. They do not think, however, of much higher amounts of suspiciously spent taxpayers' money, nor when they have to have a informed conversation in the USKOK after four years, but this is another topic finally being cared for by law enforcement authorities. Every time this government has no response or when members of the government are aware of their mistakes, they regularly call for a coalition government and decisions made during the government's term of office. It's no different this time. You are referring to the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the conditions of use of official passenger cars, mobile phones, regular airline lines, business credit cards, means of representation and means of official travel adopted on 9 March 2000. We are pleased that this government is being called upon and acting according to a decision made by the coalition government, but in that decision, gentlemen do not say, for example, that the prime minister can drive on an official plane when he leaves for Vukovar after the party's parliament for a private birthday celebration of one of his ministers. On the other hand, gentlemen dear, compared to Racan's Government, there are 50 state secretaries who did not even exist at the time, so there are at least 50 new officials who, for example, have the right to drive in official cars and that is something the public has the right to know. But even that, you're hiding it from the public. Journalists sought an official response to the number of new officials in this government compared to the first Sanader government, so you didn't give that answer either. After all, if there was a political will here you could change the decision of the previous government, correct, adapt to the new circumstances within 24 hours. Even though you've been in power for five years today, you're looking for an excuse for your incompetence in the coalition government. Does this mean that there is no real answer and that you recognize your own failures? The SDP advocates' club expects this interpretation that ministers finally start acting differently towards the spending of taxpayers' money. That decisions by the Government and the executive authorities are made and implemented transparently. That the data is made available to the Croatian public and to the parliamentary representatives. To finally accept the fact that the economic situation in the country is difficult, that citizens are living harder, that they are getting poorer and that a savings programme is needed at the disposal of taxpayers' money. Insisting on these principles is not a policy as the Minister Schucker assessed but a reflection of the need to strengthen citizens' confidence in the work of elected officials and in the final concentration of confidence in the political system, in the institutions of the system. It is no secret that the trust of Croatian citizens in the state institutions is quite low. This is what the SDP club warned about and clearly needs to be warned about. This should also be changed and it is a task for us here in the Croatian Parliament and for all actors on the political and public scene. Presumption of development, the assumption of any change in this country is the existence of political will. The previous Sanader government had no political will, no knowledge, and no courage to step up in the field of judicial reform, nor in the public administration, and especially in the fight against corruption. Since even in this Sanader government, what would be said from a second attempt is largely the same people who have sat down and in the past with willingness, it is clear that there will be no real shifts in these fields in this mandate other than the stories that have been released. When and if all information on officials is made available to the public, when their conduct is in the right sense subject to that word to the court of the public, responsible or at least more responsible behaviour of the public office-holder may be expected. If the Minister of Finance is acting so irresponsiblely and arrogantly outside the Croatian Parliament, then what can I hope for Croatian citizens? It is no wonder that citizens' confidence in the institutions of government is becoming increasingly weak, and the authority of authoritarian individuals is being strengthened. The government must be based on trust, not blackmail, trade, closed doors, not open doors. That's not how modern democracy works. They're resting on the public's right to know. With us, these rights as well as many laws that regulate them, including the one about access to information, are a dead letter on paper. With orderly systems, passing money from state to private pockets can't go unpunished. The regulated systems of moral and political responsibility have their meaning and weight. An official who mixes personal and public interests or personal assumptions can only count on serious problems with his own political credibility. We need to learn a lot more about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13934	We have one correction to an incorrect quote, Mr. Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13935	Thank you very much. Well, here's a colleague of mine's a few incorrect allegations, so I'll just have three. First of all, Minister Schuker said he was demeaning the Parliament. I don't think that's true, and I'm sure that's not true. Minister Shuker admits this Parliament, respects it, sits here for hours on all topics concerning his ministry late at night, often times, and he could send his secretary of state. So he respects this Parliament to prove it by his presence and by his activity in the debates. Second, what the colleague said incorrectly, that the minister didn't answer who had the right to the card. The minister replied, because whoever has the right to a card is defined in the 2000 decision, it's the first and second rank officers. And thirdly, Sanader's government, I quote, has not made a step in the fight against corruption. This is incorrect, because at the time of Sanader's government's mandate we have achieved the best score in history since Croatia was led to the Transparency International ranking, which is just past year. The best rating cannot come in itself but only if the government is working against corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13936	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13937	Mr. President, Article 211(2), I answered the word and asked for a word on behalf of the motionary. The Rules of Procedure in Article 211(2) give me the right to give interpretations in the course of the debate. Please, I'm asking for a word on behalf of the motionary.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13938	The promoter is 24 MPs, and the article on interpretation says: "The representative of the representatives who launched the interpretation has the right to explain the interpretation at the session." You've explained the interpretation, and he also has the right to have a government representative look back at the interpretation. And it's done. Now there is, this is about interpretation, this is how you have called for other institutes, but if we apply that institute everywhere and in every agenda point in the same way that you have the right to possibly address it multiple times, so does the government. We are preparing these points of the agenda agreed to minimise the debate and to bring it down to representatives of clubs, with you as a representative independent to get the word when at every item of the agenda which is or any other independent representative will get the word about each item of the agenda. If we apply such a thing, then I think it is correct that at the end of the debate, the motionary's representative should refer to the debate, as the government's representative will look back. And then it would be within what we agreed. However, if we want these discussions indefinitely, and we've tried to make arrangements for it to be within clubs, then it's another situation. That's why I'm asking you to give up. I'll give you my word whenever you get up, but to give up on it, to have clubs held up, to look eventually at club representatives and representatives of the government and also to the government's representatives. That way, we'll take one normal regular route into this debate. Here, then. Here you go, Mr. Lesar. We can do it by morning. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13939	Mr. President, the deal you just mentioned and quoted may have been made first without me and the second, if the opposite of Article 211 was made. The Rules of Procedure have now said this because of the future when someone is negotiating something with someone, clubs cannot agree on behalf of independent representatives and take their business rights. ... of these ten minutes I've been looking for, and in the closing word, I'll say everything. [[You can't hear the speaker away from the microphone.]] And I'm showing a co-operation that wasn't when you made the arrangements for today's debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13940	We also show co-operation because I just said that every item of the agenda if you want you can get as an independent advocate a word, as can be obtained by independent other advocates, but the clubs agreed. So, of course, I respected that agreement, but also your right to not agree with the clubs as an independent representative, you are not a representative of any club, so what I said is correct. I think so. Thank you very much. Let's move on. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13941	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, Okay, I don't think anyone would mind Mr. Lesar asking or any other minister how much he spends that state apparatus on both the team and the cards and on official cars and on hotels and journals, etc. It's absolutely legitimate, but God forbid it's all about that. I am also interested in how much these contents are spent in public enterprises from Croatian broadcasters to Croatian insurance, from one INA to the Croatian electricity industry, from Croatian Waters, Croatian Roads, hospital administrations, schools, not to mention further. However, on these issues, especially when it comes to the media in this country, no one in this assembly, unfortunately, has the courage. I'd also be grateful to Mr. Lesar if he'd set up an interpretation in the direction of, say, why, for example. MPs don't have a card, a cell phone, why we have a 0 kuna team, cars that don't talk, etc. Everyone thinks we have the right to do that, and we don't have any of that, and I just heard from Mr. Hebrang that we have the first and second-row officials. And now I would ask Mr. Hebrang or the Minister of Finance... Ranga, okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What rank are we in? Looks like a reaper. Here I am yesterday... Thirst, the harvest order is a representative. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yesterday I said the only real MPs were minorities and I was attacked immediately. I said when the media goes to some village, the man takes the kids 20, 30 chocolates, women 20, 30 candy, with the husbands get out of the bunker, bakes the lamb, and the rest of us just can't do anything about it. And now, absolutely, this question of Mr. Lesar is legitimate. I will not say that it is the easiest way to move forward, but in some ways it is disabling the credibility of this Parliament. If the Parliament wants to be a real Parliament and MPs should at least have the status of state secretaries or editors in Croatian broadcasting. And don't forget that on television today, about 300 people are getting far more pay than our ministers. And that's true. And so let's not waste too much of that demagogue just by it. Let's raise this Parliament to at least one of Slovakia's levels. Let's not let Parliament be the last hole in the play. My brother works in the Istrian plumbing and his company pays him 100, 200, 300 kuna for the phone. And it's normal for everyone and none of it represents any problem. For example, MPs don't have the right to do that. Every journalist has a right to do that in his own line of work. Okay, someone's gonna say private, let them do whatever they want. I don't mind, but we're often referred to as something we don't just participate in. It calls us for the price of food in the restaurant, and I claim that our restaurant is a representative, rudely expensive, and that food is also miserable. Under 250 kuna, the four of us can't eat anything, drink anything without talking about that quality of food. It's the same truth, whether someone's gonna talk about it or not, about it another time. Now let's look at this government decision on the use of official cars. It says here, so first rank, Prime Minister, Vice President, Deputy Prime Minister, and Vice President, Deputy Prime Minister. Second rank, Deputy Minister, Mayor, Mayor of Zagreb. Why are the mayors above counsel now? I don't know. Third rank, Deputy Prime Minister, Director of State Administration, Chief State Inspector, Secretary of Ministry, Assistant Minister, Vice-Chair, Deputy Mayor of the City of Zagreb. So we have a fourth rank, deputy secretary of government, head of system, ministry. I haven't read any MPs around here. There's no MP anywhere. Let's talk about it the same way, and let's just stop beinglittled. I'm going to say one more time, this interpretation is legitimate. I have nothing against it, although I believe Mr. Shucker should be asked far more direct and far more important questions, for example about the state of shipbuilding, of an external debt that reached 35.9 billion euros last month, it exceeded the external debt of 36 billion euros earlier this month. The issue of inflation, the price of gasoline, VAT on food should be asked, individence exceeded certainly 14.15 billion kuna, 23.24 thousand enterprises are simply indivisible in the Republic of Croatia, about twenty thousand over a year, why there is a lack of foreign investment, excise duties, etc., and not as much as the minister spends on the official card. Somewhere I heard, I mean from the minister himself here when he answered Mr. Lesar's question, that it was about some forty thousand kunas. And I'm really gonna say it's nothing. What minister on the card can't spend more than 40,000 kuna? Sometimes things may need to lead to absurdity. Of course he can't spend more, because everyone else is paying him, but the cost of the Minister of Finance on the night card, for the team, for the trip, etc. Of 40 thousand kuna is indeed nothing. That's not even 450 euros a month. I know someone will say or my mother who's looking at me so it's far more than my pension per month, but I'm also sure that all European finance ministers are on the moon for those trips, stays somewhere, etc. spent more than 450 euros on a card, I don't know, on a team and something like that. And instead of calling the minister why he doesn't spend more, because not spending with the minister can be corruption, we honor him for a cost of 450 euros. And I claim that not paying sometimes can also be corruption. As we also know, as a rule, it is not spent on these official government cards, but it is spent around those cards, those companies with ministers, state secretaries, etc. the supervisory, means in those supervisory committees of those undertakings which issue them certain cards. I mean, this can be understood as anyone will, but I think I'm also telling the truth. This interpretation, I'm going to say is legitimate, absolutely no one can dispute it, but I don't think that we're going to solve much or anything. In addition to disabling the institutions of the state, first of all this Parliament and in this way, we are disabling our own position in some way. Where the problem in this country is far greater than whether the Minister on the official ticket per month for travel and all the rest spends 450 euros, so the problem is if, in one move, as it will probably happen this month, "Liburni" is transferred into the hands of an individual and, by the way, by the court, let's put Mr. Ostoj on hold, that's the problem. Not the minister's representation or that 450-euro card per month. The problem is if we drown INA in MOL and then transfer it to MOL because all of our oil resources, not when some official spends 200 or 300 euros on the team. The problem is, if it's not transparent, the problem is if we give up the shipyard, not 200 or 300 euros on one of our ministers' cards. So let's be serious, let's not be full of ourselves, because sometimes it's no use. I say corruption isn't in cards. That's where the gentlemen can see everything. The state audit can, on this basis, very simply determine who is for what and what he spent some kuna or euro on. Corruption doesn't know her there in miles of asphalt, whether that asphalt is 20 or 18 centimeters thick. In large procurements, I don't know about these external programs of individual media, I don't know about privatisation, for example, and Liburnia, which will be privatized as I said, most likely this month, when we're all on vacation and stuff like that. Once again for the end, I agree that everything Mr. Lesar says about should be published, I agree that, as Mr. Shucker says, it is clear that every representative can ask a question, it is legitimate and legitimate that every citizen has rights and insights into every bat spent by a state official, it must not be disputed, as every citizen must also be allowed, if he wants to clearly have insight into every square meter of an official, as he has acquired that square meter, in every move I do not know, his wife or husband, however, in every yacht that any official uses, and how much I do not know gas for one cruise spending, which his friend owns, etc. But I'm afraid that sometimes these questions simply draw attention from life's issues, and I think that ultimately, this interpretation might most possibly suit Mr. Ivan Schooker himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13942	Thank you. We have one correction for Mr. Danesh Shaw. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13943	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I have to make a little correction here, given that my colleague Memedi was mentioned here in this context of chocolate, etc. Since we're in a similar position, and I can say that I would eventually since I could have them in the vineyard area with some wine charts and not chocolate. However, as far as I know, by that decision, each agent shall bear its own party if the party has a fixed amount. Therefore, you should see how these political parties spend that money, perhaps they buy chocolate too. Now, yet another note in good faith and in a joke to tell my colleague Cain that we are often exposed to listening to his discussions during the forest hour by road and then it happens when he enters the woods that the beautiful trees don't see that beautiful forest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13944	Thank you. That's a comment. On behalf of the HSS, Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13945	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Representatives who have submitted the interpretation of the work of Mr Ivan Shuker's Minister of Finance believe it is necessary to open the debate on the work of Mr Ivan Shuker's Minister of Finance in the light of the dissatisfaction of Representative Dragutin Lesar with the subsequent written reply of the minister to the asked parliamentary question, undermining the minister's relationship with the Croatian Parliament and the harsh violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Namely, the representative Dragutin Lesar asked him: "Who of the officials and other executive officials has the right to use official and business credit cards and how much money did they spend using them in 2007?". The Minister of Finance, Mr Shuker, provided a written reply in accordance with the request of the MPs. The written reply states that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which also took part in the Croatian People's Party on 9 March 2000, adopted a Decision on the terms of use of official passenger cars, mobile phones, regular airline lines, business credit cards, means of representation and means of official travel. There are no known reasons why the government did not issue a decision in the People's Newspaper at the time. Indeed, it is not clear why the esteemed representative is not satisfied with the response given that the decision on the terms of use of official passenger cars, mobile phones, regular airline lines, business credit cards and means of representation and means of official travel has existed since 2000, and it is likely to date familiar with its content, with the fact that the decision was taken by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in which the Croatian People's Party took part. Even if he is not familiar with the content of that decision, it was delivered to him in a written reply by Mr Shuker's Finance Minister. The counsel's intention is unclear since he first claimed that such a decision does not exist. He then claimed that such a decision should be published in "The People's Newspaper" to finally establish that no answer to his question by officials and other executive officials is given to the use of official business cards in a decision that regulates the terms of credit card use. Furthermore, the demeaning attitude of Mr Shuker's finance minister towards the Croatian Parliament, according to the MP, is indeed his subjective impression rather than the objective fact on which this interpretation would be based. It is important to note that the State audit carried out under the State Audit Act carried out an audit of the operations of the Ministry and that it had no objections to their costs or identified irregularities related to the use of official business credit cards. In addition, each individual ministry is responsible for its spending of budgetary resources under the Budget Law as well as the budgetary user, not the Ministry of Finance. As regards the infringement of Article 188, the Commission considers that the measures The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, which reads: The Government, or the Minister, sends a written reply to the MP on the parliamentary issue by intervening the President of the Parliament. The President of the Parliament sends a written reply to all MPs quoted by the MP as saying in an interpretation that on 26 March 2008, in the Croatian Parliament, the received response from Minister Suker was dated from 21 March 2008. That reply shall be addressed to the President of the Assembly, as shall the Rules of Procedure and, respectively, Article 188. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and orders. The decision on the conditions of use of official passenger cars, mobile phones, regular airline lines, business credit cards, means of representation and means of official travel by the Government in 2000 clearly regulate the questions of the use of official business credit cards or who and how can use official business cards. Furthermore, the State audit carried out under the State Audit Act determines the use of budgetary resources, determines whether there are irregularities in the use of budgetary resources and, accordingly, the use and irregularities of official business credit cards and each individual ministry, since the budgetary user under the Budget Act is responsible for the stated use of budgetary resources within that ministry. Therefore, the Ministry of Finance should not deal with other ministries in this regard more because the State audit has not identified any irregularities in the use of budgets by the ministry, or more specifically in the case of official business cards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13946	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13947	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's an interpretation that will take us a lot of time in the phase of the adoption of European laws, but certainly we should discuss this interpretation, even though we at the club don't understand the question of our colleagues, Lesar. In fact, three questions were asked in that interpretation. First, who's the card user. Secondly, how much of these cards have been spent on their cargo. And thirdly, the text reads that Minister Schuker is belittled by the Parliament and how rudely, the government blatantly violates Parliament's Rules of Procedure, so we will try to answer these questions on behalf of the club. The first question is who is the business card user referred to the wrong address because it is not decided by Minister Schuker. Who's the user? It reads in the government's decision six, seven years ago, which clearly states who the users are and is said to be first and second-class business card users, which is what the first and second-ranking officers say in the document. I agree with my colleague Cain. We MPs belong to some last rank or back row, especially Mr. Cain. I see you sitting in the back row, then justifiably wake up to your status. As for who spends, so it's clearly written here even though the names of some functions have changed in the meantime. But it is quite clear that the secretary of state is responding to the deputy, category of deputy minister. Therefore, he has the right to that card. The second question is, how much has been spent? As much as it's spent, the head of every ministry and every other state-owned body knows it because it's responsible. How much has been spent is the State Audit, and so did counterpart Lesar when he asked the question, because in his own question he wrote the next sentence. “Because I” he said in the first person of the single “because in the State Audit findings I saw it often mentioned when the decision on use was not respected.” That means if the State Audit for 2007 did not mention it, that the decision was respected. Because if the decision hadn't been respected, the State Audit would have led to it because it said every time it didn't respect itself. Well, out of respect for us for the State Audit, we have to trust her because we authorized her to do a very responsible job. The Minister of Finance is not responsible, so all that the State Audit has written is that there is an irregularity. Because then he assumes, as we know by law, the responsibility of the State Attorney's Office to which the State's audit teaches its findings. So, from that point of view, the Minister of Finance can't be blamed or questioned for this kind of spending. Technically, if they asked the finance minister how many pens were spent in all ministries, he wouldn't know the same thing. And I assure you that pens in the ministries have been spent much more than business cards. Whoever doesn't believe should check it out. That is why we believe that these questions were raised even though the answers to the one who asked the question were well - known. But of course, it's the right of every MP to ask, even what I know. What bothers us especially here is that this issue, and the subject of corruption has been put into question in the light of the issues, in fact, once again dumped on a part of the politicians. With questions like this, we throw black light at ourselves the way it doesn't exist in reality. I claim that the vast majority and state officials and users of business cards at lower levels use these cards responsible, to have the state or county money entrusted to them very consciously and quality, and to throw a shadow at all together with such discussions. Those who are not regulated in spending this people's money are called by the one responsible for the audit and then followed by criminal proceedings and sanctions, and that is what should be respected. This is how we do our own debates now, just like he said, and we're actually throwing mud at ourselves. And then we're surprised when the echoes in some media about the profession of politicians are very negative, so now I'm not surprised at Mr. Journalist to some Tomic who wrote about the same restaurant in this House that my colleague Cain talked about. Writing in his column in a circulational, high-printed journal, Mr. Tomic spoke about politicians who eat food in this restaurant and said one sentence that we are partly guilty of because we are giving him materials, such materials against ourselves, incorrect materials. The sentence reads: “I’m surprised at the cook in the Assembly restaurant how he doesn’t get cut into the soup of politicians!” I don’t do it in connection with this question, of course, Mr. Lesar, but in the context of throwing falsely negative shadows at politicians, and what has become the most popular sport in this country and these issues contribute at least to the negative result that we achieve in relation to the untruths. That's why I think this should be answered very specifically. Mr. Shuker is one of those who has just introduced order in the management of state finances and I am therefore sorry that this arrow is directed at him personally, because on the team of Prime Minister Sanader whose strategic goals are to bring state finances in line, which means operating with state money by law on that team is for a good result and a good success of this definitely the Minister Schuker. 'Cause let me remind you, and that's why it hurts to have an arrow pointed at him personally. Minister Schuker is the government budget deficit from 6% to 2%, of course with the entire government. But he was that goalie. Everyone played on that team, but he scored goals and he took the biggest hits on himself because of all the unpopular measures he had to take. Minister Shuker has abolished hundreds of bills that were used to fund the state budget to cover his tracks. Minister Shuker has also received great international recognitions for that. Minister Schuker established co-operation with international institutions just to improve business with state money. Minister Schuker introduced an internal audit into the ministry. We had the honor of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Agriculture several years ago to be highlighted by the Council of Europe as an example of the introduction of such internal control to monitor the flow of money in the ministries. Minister Shuker is one of the most responsible that just as strictly managed finances had a great result on the overall development of the economy, because one of the macro-financial indicators, the future of a single country is precisely a strictness in running a state-run new and Minister Schuker is exactly one of those which we stand on these prognostic tables today better than any country of the former Socialist Lager. Here I will only quote the last table and forecasts of the Vienna Economic Institute, which in its own description says that the main criterion is the assessment of the people who will lead at that time of state finances. According to the Vienna Institute in 2010, Croatia will have the lowest inflation rate of all newly admitted members of the European Union. The rate of inflation of Croatia will be 3.5, and they say in a sentence that is because Croatia has proven its ability to control the management of state finances. At the same time as we will have an inflation rate of 3 and a half in Vienna, Lithuania will have 10, Latvia 10, Estonia 7, and Croatia's gross national income will be at that time plus 5%, the highest of all newly admitted members of the European Union. So it will be bigger than in Latvia, Romania, Bulgaria. It will be bigger than the Slovenian increase in gross national income, Polish, Hungarian and Czech. These forecasts of the Vienna Institute are based as they say I repeat three times primarily on what this government has proven to be able to control strictly the proper spending of state money, and the leader of the raid on that part of Sanader's team is playing exactly Mr. Schucker. And that's why I'm sorry that he has to defend himself here today against questions that are not of his jurisdiction, nor is he guilty if some of them broke out in that area and some irregularities occurred. The comparisons for the mandate of Minister Shuker and the mandate of his predecessor and his predecessors will only quote part of the 2002 state audit relating to the Ministry of Finance. I quote: «2002. A year. The Ministry of Finance does not keep records on the balance of foreign exchange accounts and interest income that, income from interest, is not recorded anywhere." 2002. State audit. Since the first phase of HT privatisation, there are 13.9 million kuna missing and the sale of a state aircraft of $350,000. There is no record of interest income on the account "Chas Manhattan Bank" 3.1 million dollars and no interest of EUR 298 thousand at one of the more foreign exchange accounts at Reifeisen Bank. 2001. The audit, the State Audit for the Ministry of Finance, says: "The Ministry of Finance did not have a set-up book of public debt. He didn't have a set-up book of property. The Ministry of Finance did not even record any foreign exchange assets that were coming in. 2001. The finance ministry did not record all privatisation revenues for 2001. There is no record of any time when these revenues were made in total amounting to 4 million kunas and so on. It's the state of public finances before Minister Shuker. And look at the latest State Audit report, in which there is, of course, always an objection because it is a huge portfolio and a large number of income and expenditure items, there is not one single remark that would refer to irrational business, to income unrecorded, to non-reportation of expenditure, to illegal state money operations. Not a single remark like that. So it's that minister who changed the picture of public finances running here that's being targeted. I think the chosen target is wrong. I think it's the wrong arrow. And I think we're wasting our time on something we can't solve here. I think our conclusion here should be that every responsible leader of the portfolio will report on the result of the business card spending. Is that in accordance with not only the law but also the morals of politicians? I often throw morale in front of the law because there are holes in the law. There are no holes in morale. I'll bring just one more piece of evidence to support that most politicians are knowingly spending money. So let me say my own example because I answer for it. I've been a minister for 10 years. I used the card nine times. Every time I had to spend the night at a hotel abroad because otherwise you couldn't pay the ticket. I've never ordered a car more expensive than the upper middle class. And I've never completed that section of the resor team I've been responsible for. And in the last term of office of the Deputy Prime Minister, I didn't even get to pick up my business card because I was doing this year and a half, and I managed to do it without a business card by paying an account in advance or backwards. In other words, the vast majority of politicians behave in this way, and let's not throw a shadow at us ourselves. There are enough midwives who do this to blacken us among our voters. It's final. I think the Minister of Finance, Mr. Schucker, in his 5 years of performing and certainly the most difficult duties in Croatian state resources, has shown that they are being brought into the order of state finances and that is why our club will vote against this interpretation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13948	Thank you. We have one correction. Mr. Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13949	I am correcting my colleagues, Hebrang, that the decision in question lists the first and second rank officers. The decision in question lists first and second rank officials and mentions to officials in the context that, by special decision, they too exercise that right. And the subject of my question was precisely these officials not only.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13950	Thank you. And final consideration Mr. Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13951	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. First, in his reply, Minister Shuker said he was accused of breaking the law. I didn't say or write. It says and I was talking about violating the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament because I didn't get an answer. Not the law, the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. And the question of responsibility for unanimity decisions within the government when it comes to financial nature, I assume, is the primary task of the finance minister. Furthermore, it is said that the Minister of Finance cannot know how much who spends on what? But why did the government, in its response, then instructed me to ask for an answer to my question in the 2007 report and budget implementation drawn up by the Ministry of Finance. What was the question? Is there a decision? No, I don't. I didn't ask if there was a decision. I said there was a decision. It hasn't been published, though. I couldn't find it at the time. So I haven't determined that the government has no decision. It's that she exists. Why isn't the decision published in the People's Newspaper? Why is the amendment and addition of the decision announced not published in the National Journal? If it wasn't brought, why wasn't it brought? That's what I asked in my introduction. If the State Audit doesn't determine any illegality, then who has the right to question? The Croatian Parliament. Or any MP, I assume you'll agree with me has the right to ask questions. But I've made no claim either in terms of interpretation of any suspicion of illegality. I was just looking for information and nothing else. I've been given an unconditional opinion by the State Audit for the Ministry of Finance, and I know that, and I'm glad and that's good. But what difference does it make now? So was anyone looking for any information just for the Ministry of Finance or for Minister Shuker? I don't remember that. And the fact that an unconditional opinion is given is good. The Ministry of Finance isn't accounting, and that's true, but I was hoping he could collect data if a parliamentary agent asked for it. It's exactly the kind of nature that are exclusively of financial nature. It has been announced that the future report will be on level four. I quote what's been said. Brussels and Washington, which gave or gave recognition for the financial arrangement, were mentioned. I have to remind myself then if we're going to admit that Charlie Chaplin got Oscar, too, but not to take care of the financials, but to act. And what does that have to do with my question now, I don't understand. And I wasn't in Brussels or Washington, and I wasn't questioning the financial arrangements, I wasn't questioning the finance minister's responsibility, I was looking for data and nothing else. And since I didn't get them, the Rules of Procedure gives me the opportunity to question why I didn't get the answer. And in the end, Minister Schuker couldn't resist speaking to me and mentioning my former party. I guess it's in the context of my co-responsibility for someone who's been doing something. In that context, Minister Schuker also mentioned yesterday or yesterday the budgetary supervision of a county as proof of suspicion that something was cloudy. But he didn't say when that budget surveillance in that county was made. How, how many months has he already had the results of budgetary surveillance and never mentioned it so far, he has now started to mention it, and it seems to me 13 months since that budgetary surveillance. It's current now. It's not up until now. If we're going to go into political reckonings, but I tried not to mention it at all, or question anything else. My colleague Cain, in his kind of vehemently style, has always claimed that he is interested in, say, state-owned data as well, so it would be good for a colleague who asks them such questions, to say the same thing, but it bothers me that in this House and in this State, it doesn't matter what anyone else asks, except what he thinks is important. All other matters in this country are irrelevant so long as they are declared important by counterpart Cain. My colleague Hebrang said he didn't understand the interpretation, and I expected that he wouldn't understand it, but he also claimed that we were throwing such questions black light at politicians. I think we're throwing black light at politicians by refusing to answer questions like this. Especially if everything is legal and clean. How by question can we shed black light that applies exclusively to data, without insinuation, without claims or politicizing. The black light is cast when a transparently clear and understandable question refuses to answer. That's about the message don't ask anything, because if you don't ask anything, there won't be any black light thrown at politicians. And neither the interpretation nor the question has been addressed nor sent against Minister Shuker, but against behaviour in the sense that the answer is not to be given. But it's very acceptable to me that on behalf of the club he put it out, his proposal and he said that instead of today, we would have to conclude that every beneficiary of the state budget reports on the spending of funds on business credit cards. Well, that's exactly what I was looking for, so that's what I want all the time, so I want to get that information, so none of them has to come in here, but just give an answer to all the users of the state budget of the leaders to give a report on who owns the business credit card and how much money was spent with the finding that there's no irregularities. I accept this proposal as a conclusion if the club offers a representative in the sense that instead of accepting the conclusions from the text, the interpretations are made this conclusion. And if that was an interpretation, it wouldn't have happened. And finally, and I repeat. The Croatian public has the right to know who and how much they spend on budget money and on what. And I'll always insist on that. They have the right to know which government officials, which civil servants use and for what purposes and how much they spent on credit cards. But it turns out from the government's written reply and today's debate that no one in the Croatian government knows who has business credit cards or who has business credit cards, or how much he spent, or for which purposes they are used. So it can happen that the burden of the state budget is also used by Professor Balthazar, and perhaps by Mr. Zagorec in Austria. And this is ultimately my insistence and struggle for principles, transparency of public finances, but especially respect for the prescribed relationship between the Government and the Parliament. We would miss this time to determine anyone's responsibility for not answering the parliamentary question that awaits you in the future all. And every time you ask any minister anything, you have to count on it if you succumb to such an attitude this time that you will never get answers, or you will get answers that you will not understand, or what you have not asked will be answered. And final. Will the Government of the Republic of Croatia still give this information to the Croatian public? That's not what we're talking about so far. Will anyone on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, if it is not the Minister of Finance, then let Prime Minister Sanader do it, give data not only for 2007 but regularly that data outside to remove any suspicion that there are persons in the Croatian executive authority such as the Swedish member of the Government who has misused business credit cards. Only apparently, unlike Croatia and Sweden, it is sanctioned there, and in Croatia it is declared to be a forbidden topic irrelevant to Parliament's functioning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13952	Thank you. We have one correction, the distinguished representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13953	Thank you very much. My colleague Lesar said a few things wrong, and I'll fix the two most important things. First, he said by refusing to answer, we were throwing black light at politicians. First, the answer wasn't rejected, he was given. In response, it clearly says who spends the cards, spends whoever is covered by the decision and whether there was an irregularity, is not, because the State Audit said so. So we don't throw red light if we don't give an answer, because we gave the answer. The second thing is incorrect, he says that I suggested on behalf of the club that we refer the same question to other resorts. No, I'm just saying on behalf of the club, that you wanted to know the truth rather than politicize then you would have referred the question to those responsible for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13954	Thank you. And now respected Ivan Shuker, Minister of Finance in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13955	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Not once I was in a position as a finance minister that I had complemented the answers several times because the area which the Ministry of Finance covers very broadly and perhaps sometimes the MPs themselves expect to get something, but given the analytical development of certain data, they often see that they did not get what they wanted, so there are several additional questions and I think that no MP will get out of the opposition, whether or not the ruling one can submit that it has not received data from the Ministry of Finance. Whether he was satisfied with him and whether that answer was what he expected, it was another pair of shoes. So we're just facts. We at the Ministry of Finance can't play, answer one way or another. The number's a number and it's controlled several times. So here, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot say that I repeat that my predecessors from the coalition government have not advocated it. So one public and transparent public finances for the sake of making it easier for all of us to live if we have it that way. So you have the provision of Article 112. The budget law that was passed in 2003, and you will see that in this new law... with clear workings. [[You don't understand.]] And why is that? So if you lower the responsibility of spending on whoever's responsible, so if this High House adopts the budget and if one ministry gets so much and so much money, you'll see in those positions, I'll now quote six items in Article 112. The budget law, then you'll see what the responsibilities are. And my answer here and here at this High House on the current morning, and all the answers afterwards were based on Article 112, without the intention of any MPs and of demeaning and not sending my answer. But what is a logical thing, as we want ministers to propose their programme and be responsible for the implementation of that programme, so the Ministry of Finance proposes so much and so much money to the government and if this House adopts it then the logical thing is that they bear responsibility. Well, I said in the beginning that as soon as I got to my ministry, one of the first things was just to write and sign a decision that was just treating this area to say so. To make it clear who has the right to do what. Why? Because sometimes the public is far more interested in whether someone spent on the phone 200, 300 kuna more than if someone on a project spent 10 or 20 million more. That's right, we live in a world like that, and it should be respected. But let us look at the provisions of the law that we make. And the other thing, and the State Audit and Budgetary Control and Internal Control and Audit, which was founded not to control the ministers after the event but to warn earlier. Because if something wrong was done before the event itself, you can only say it, but you can't fix it. And the point of keeping public finances and us at the Ministry of Finance is to help our colleagues through such institutions, because look, you can't if someone's a doctor, if someone's a professor, etc. Well, he can't know all about finances. So the meaning of these institutions that were established in the term of this government was precisely in this direction, not in any other direction. I'm not going to say that everything is ideal, but if we're going to be honest with ourselves as politicians first, so let's look at the state's audits 10 years ago, so let's look at the findings today, no matter what political option we belong to, we can't say that there's not been a certain step, and that's exactly what Croatian citizens expect of us. If they already have to pay taxes that we who are in a position to spend that money, to worry about how we spend that money, and that's how I'm experiencing leadership and how I'm experiencing my position as finance minister. My answer went exclusively to the ladies and gentlemen to honor the Article 112 you voted in this House of Commons. Because if I had given any other answer, I would have broken Article 112 because Article 112 knows who's responsible. I, as finance minister, if I don't send budgetary surveillance, can't see details of the cost of what this budget has adopted. So I think we've done a lot in the form of international finances and I'm glad Mr. Lesar's one prize is compared to one of the top masters in his work. I think Charlie Chaplin was a genius, and yet I modestly think I'm nowhere near it, but I'm glad he compared me. But that also best shows this debate that we've had a little fun at all this together. But I'm also glad when I heard the discussion of representatives of the SDP club who spoke in principle about certain things. That's what the HDZ club might say if it was a question of some SDP minister. But what is personal and my ministry's work was not an objection, I sincerely thank the SDP club for that, and I think that communication between colleagues, between the SDP and the Ministry of Finance, should be stronger and better, above all. Why? And forgive me for taking this opportunity to say it. For the simple reason we all need to use official documents. We could not get out before, because such an agreement with the representatives of the European Commission, perhaps today or early next week, will come out with the European Commission's evaluations of pre-accession funds and you will see that the picture is quite different. But what I would like to say is that any statement by any Croatian politician sometimes does not benefit the Republic of Croatia, because those who want to stop us from doing something can stop us. Any information anyone wants about pre-accession funds, we will be very happy to give to the Ministry of Finance for the simple reason that everyone together, whether at the local level or at the state level, is in a position to withdraw far more of the money we have to withdraw, because I think it is the desire of all regardless of any political option. But if we're going to charge each other, and at the same time we have to determine whether we agree to it or not that we don't have administrative capacity from simply what neither the people of the SDP nor the HDZ nor those who are not in any political party have had the opportunity to meet with such jobs. That is why the agency is established, and therefore the European Commission is asked to give us some training to make efficiency as good as possible and as classy as possible. So here, forgive me for one small crackdown at the end, but I think pre-accession funds are common concerns for both HDZ and SDP and other political parties, but these are the two biggest parties, with HDZ's responsibility far greater. And if we don't get some money neither the citizens who voted for HDZ nor the citizens who voted for the SDP, nor the others who voted for other political options or have no political option. She didn't get Croatia, and I think we all have Croatia on our minds first. Here's one request, any information you can get at the end, and you saw the other day about the Budget Law that we very, very much agreed on some things that were unclear. Here. All the clubs thank you for the discussion and for the suggestion, and my colleague Lesar, I think he's got the answer to the question. He insisted on some things, but I say thank you very much anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13956	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the voting conditions are met. I'm still just here to let you know that we're going to be working without a break today to bring this in as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13957	We're moving on to the Interpol on the work of Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker. Carrier: 34 representatives of the Croatian Parliament. The debate is closed. The government proposed the next conclusion to the Croatian Parliament. Interpelation is denied on the work of Finance Minister Ivan Shuker. I'm voting on the government's conclusion. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? So, the government has proposed refusing to interpret. We're voting on the government's conclusion. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The conclusion was accepted by most votes, 82 votes in favour, one abstention and 48 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13958	Moving to point 16. - Interpletion on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the field of energy supply, and regarding their prices and impact on the economy and standard of living of citizens Carriers: members of the SDP Club of Representatives. Representatives of the Croatian Parliament on the basis of Article 190 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament submitted this interpretation. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. Do the proposing representatives want to show themselves? Yeah. Dear Representative Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13959	Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Dom. I'm going to start off with a depression or it's not a depression because I didn't even start talking, so I can't get a crack at the words of the Honorable Minister Schuker. It is a touching call to national unity, yet some such situations in our ears are responding, and we always advocate it, but we must not be well-intentioned and constructive criticism of bad work in the best national interest to show Maltas not as a diversion against the interests of the Republic of Croatia. Because it turns out that the words and criticisms of competent people from the SDP and other parties in the opposition to harm Croatia, that they are telling the truth. Either the people in Brussels don't know what the real situation is or don't have any insight into what's going on. I don't believe that's true. So we will continue to be constructive, critical, not to undermine Croatian interests because we have never done it, quite the contrary, but to do what is the job of the opposition in every democratic state. And don't get it wrong. In addition, we are available for continued cooperation. This interpretation of government work and the role of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to reduce the impact of energy prices on living standards can begin in this way. A week ago, at a meeting of Socialists in Athens, I had the opportunity to speak with European Commission member Laszlo Kovacs, otherwise the former Hungarian prime minister, president of the Socialist Party of Hungary. And by the way he said since it was his portfolio, that his finances were the portfolio, that he was on that day on, a day later at the beginning of the French session in Paris etc., etc. What the European Union or the European Commission, as a proponent, as a guardian of the Treaties, intends to do as part of its ability to protect the standards of the European Union's inhabitants through tax policy. People of the European Union who, we know this well, are richer than the Croatian average. And so yesterday, the European Commission leaves the Proposal for a Directive on changes to the value added tax rate, with a proposal for a whole series of rates that decrease from 10 to 5%, so let's say children's food and equipment and a whole series of other services to facilitate the situation of the poor people of the European Union as a result of an increase in energy prices and disturbances on the world market. They happen, they guess the strong ones that deal with it we see in what way. They hit those who aren't strong enough, which we belong to, and we deal with it in another way. It is an impression and I believe that the impression will be corrected, but I have the right to the wrong impression that things are taking place in a cryptic way, that they are not the result of a thought-out policy, that we are exactly where we are and that too much is left behind in the work of this government by the inspiration of certain people or just one man. That's how the state can be run, but that leadership doesn't go much further than inert. So, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished MPs. Energy prices in Croatia compared to the purchasing power of the population today are among the higher in Europe and absolutely, and especially relatively, if the low wage average in Croatia is taken into account. Gases have reached a price of 10 kuna per litre, diesel fuel also, electricity has accumulated 24% per fall will accumulate gas etc. All of this, in view of the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with EU legislation, should also be added to the recent changes in the excise tax system, related to electricity and gas, which can result only in further purchases. This is all referred to as a very simple name in the Government of Croatia programme, the introduction of the energy market price. And this introduction of the energy market price is something that, according to the Croatian government, all citizens should understand and accept, paying high bills of electricity, gasoline, gas and other energy. However, there is a problem that we want to talk about in this interpretation, which is the real problem of the fall of standards and the poverty of Croatian citizens. And that's dear colleagues and fellow facts. That's not the reason for the revolution, that's not the reason for the drama, but that's the fact. Croatia is finding it increasingly difficult to live from month to month, and this is a country of great potential, a great bright future, if we work well, but it may vary left and right both in Croatia and in the rest of the world. The right hand sees its patriotism through honoring the past, and the left hand adds to it the fight for a better future and for a fairer society. So, the fact that citizens are living harder and harder is the fact that we want to talk here today. Someone will say that they barely make ends meet, but that the price impact on people's standards is increasing and that the largest number of people who receive some average salary most affected by these purchases is also a fact and for them inflation is not 6% or over 6% as much as it is according to the latest surveys in Croatia, but it is higher. We've done it a hundred times. What collects the most affects those who earn the least. In their cost structure, their energy and food price baskets take up not 6%, but 40%, 50%, and that's the key problem. And when you look at the statistical average salary in Croatia is almost 5,000 kuna, but the salary received by the largest number of people medium salmony, to use that term is 3,000 kuna. That's what most people get. For them inflation is much bigger or it's two and nine hundred or three and five hundred, there's no big difference. Recent research suggests that nearly a fifth of Croatian citizens in this year have already felt a significant deterioration in the financial situation of their own household. More than a third of citizens claim their financial situation from month to month is worse, and the fall in standards is the most felt on daily spending. Furthermore, the same survey adds that three-quarters of citizens will spend all their earnings on daily needs in the follow-up year. Unfortunately, the picture of Croatia as drawn under the government's mandate. This image is a reality that cannot be embellished by the verbal exhibition of the government, the Prime Minister and his ministers and the desire to deal with and deal with together, not the illusion that there is no problem. It's a reality that requires government activity, a reality that requires concrete moves from this government. Less ad hoc measures, more politics, more elaborate programs of action, less fire extinguishing, more prevention. And as much as we try to show reality differently, the facts are these. In the last four months, food prices have increased by 11% this year and official inflation has reached over 6%. It's not exactly in line with the forecasts of the Vienna Institute. And that is the highest inflation rate in Croatia in the last 8 years. Unfortunately with this government without an economic programme, or without a clear programme, because the programme formally exists, without a clear programme and will to implement it, but since yesterday, the further growth of inflation seems to be a reality. This also contributes to the adopted rebalance of the state budget, which instead of rationalising, curbing and reducing, further increases state spending, which is directly related to our problems. That reminds us somewhat of some of the situations we had in the late 1990s. Although we agree today, the conjuncture is better, as a consequence of some external factors, today state finances are also due to the work of several conflicting governments, I will not say better, but different in accordance with some other standards, but the fact that the rise of the state budget of centralised money available to Zagreb is one of the main Croatian problems, and not enough municipalities, cities and counties. And that in this we should look for the causes of what is happening to us and that in healthy economies, the growth of the budget is and must be based on all public consumption and economy theories in the 20th century related to productivity and real economic growth. This is not the case in Croatia, it is too much to ignore and the Croatian state is too expensive and the last things that happen do not move us from this direction. Now it's the price of gasoline and diesel used by most commercial vehicles 10 kuna. Since HDZ took over and most of the responsibility for the direction Croatia is going, Eurosuper 95 has accumulated 50%, diesel has raised 80% since 2003 and blue diesel by as much as 140%. At the beginning of this year, the price of unleaded gasoline and Eurosuper was below 8 kuna, now more expensive by 20%, euro diesel by 25%. Every week, citizens look forward to new information from the INA. Control nothing. Citizens with anxiety, but the government and Mr. Sanader without fear. They obviously don't care too much. In a recent debate on the rebalancing of the state budget, the prime minister told citizens not to worry, as it is not better in other countries, forgetting that there are much more in other countries or salaries or active tax policy measures that I spoke about at the beginning of this presentation. The European Commission proposes them. It creates a new framework and has adopted a directive under the correct number. That's what I need you to look at. That happened yesterday. The government's decision increased electricity prices by 24%, indicating that the demands were 50%, and it was found that they were never 50% to calm people down, with very few people who would not feel the increase because they were spending less than 2,000 kilowatt hours a year. Once again, a measure that has obviously been brought forward, perhaps with the best intentions, perhaps truly with the desire to help someone because I don't believe that they've been brought in with the desire to help someone, to get rid of the whole category of people, but to kill by clearly only one person's inspiration. These days, citizens are being informed of the collection and the consumption class in which they are in relation to the collection. If some have also believed that 50% of the citizens will not feel the collection of electricity from the government session, these days they will obviously follow the sobering, and the cold shower only follows when they arrive with new figures and after a new calculation. The collection will be avoided only by people who are not home all day and do not spend their electricity, and most will be paid by multi-member families who spend more than 3,000 kilowatt hours a year in the vast majority. Dear gentlemen, this has been completely unnecessary and I hope you will understand the failure of this measure, the understatement, the thoughtlessness. So, most of all, those who are still the most vulnerable will pay. The government will show this, in our court by a completely wrong measure, that there is no social sensitivity and that it does not know or wants to protect those who are the poorest and who live exclusively from their work. On the other hand, another important, equally important, far-reaching measure and the problem is an energy system that is completely devoid, and we know what energy, not only means today, but also what is said to mean in the future and what it has always meant and how important it is for what we call sovereignty and whose protection we constantly swear, but we do not take enough. In the case of energy, almost nothing, because it is completely abandoned, infrastructure inadequate, very little or nothing is invested in it for years, and this should be the strategic commitment of the Republic of Croatia, such as the strategic commitment of most of the countries that are being placed in the developed world to which we seek. The Croatian government has not found a way to neutralize or at least mitigate the shocks caused by the rise in energy prices while on international exchanges we have been at the worst since 1999. In Croatia, there is a particularly worrying lack of production capacity and an increasing dependence on the import of primary energy, oil and gas. We think it's clear to everyone. When the Government does not do enough on these issues, even though energy companies are making significant revenues and significant profits. When we are in this House in April, so nearly 3 months ago we proposed this interpretation to open a debate about Croatia's need for an energy strategy, then we heard from the HDZ Club that we are proposing irrelevant topics to obstruct the adoption of European laws. The lack of energy strategy pays citizens a very high price for electricity, oil, gas and, of course, the fall of standards. One who believes that the standard of citizens and their increasingly difficult life is a side topic, it just shows how much he keeps up with the citizens. Any delay in this important topic delays and resolves this important issue, thereby prolonging the problem we must face. But the government seems to be deliberately delaying this because it does not have solutions as there is no solution to any other important issues. On 24 April, the Prime Minister said at a price monitoring committee meeting, "The most important thing is that people are fed up and energy prices are available to everyone." People in Croatia are long ago not literally hungry, and in an increasing number of countries in the world are literally hungry, but energy prices are not available. However, it is shown that the HDZ government is not working enough here either, and given all the above mentioned SDP MPs' club proposes to the Croatian Parliament to draw the following conclusions after the discussion. First, the government of the Republic of Croatia is tasked with using the possibility of using a floating excise duty and protecting the price of a euro diesel at 8 kuna per litre. Secondly, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is tasked with delivering to the Croatian Parliament the following: amendments and additions to the Value Added Tax Act in such a way that the value added tax is charged at the purchase price rather than on excise duties. The amendments to the Agricultural Aid Act will also take into account the drastic increase in reproductive material and energy in a way that increases the subsidies of agricultural products. State aid programme for socially endangered population categories for subsidising part of energy costs. An analysis of the tax burden on labour prices including contributions and measures for discharging it and the necessary amendments to the law. Programme of availability of all energy in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia under the same or similar conditions. The phasing-in programme of electricity and natural gas market prices. And last but not least, the energy capacity development programme in Croatia. All MPs, in particular representatives of the ruling coalition, representatives of HSS, HSS, HSU and others, are invited to support these conclusions in the interest of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia and thus contribute to the resolution of this very important issue. Two days ago, we almost unanimously passed the Anti-discrimination Act. This is an opportunity for us, by accepting this proposal together, to show that we care not to discriminate, but to protect those most needed in our society most affected by the chain of purchases that is now causing the continued rise in energy price. So this is what we call for something that we see as a national and social community as working in the interests of those who need it most, as social sensitivity as much as we both talk about it is in the programme of both parties and we believe it's in the programme of both parties for a reason. Dear colleagues and colleagues, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13960	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative of Andri Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13961	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague incorrectly said it was a well-intentioned policy of poor work. It's about unnecessarily critical of good work, and it's called politicizing good results. He also incorrectly said that the Vienna Institute is wrong when it talks about inflation in Croatia. The Vienna Institute of counterparts is right because he says that in 2008, inflation in Croatia will be 5.5%, much less than in the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Slovenia, Bulgaria, Romania, Estonia, Lithuania, etc. The third incorrect allegation, the rebalance of the state budget, increased state costs. No, I don't. In the rebalancing, we have determined 600 million kunas to improve the standards of the poorest layers through subsidies, 1.4 billion kunas for health care, again to improve human health, the biggest incentives in the economy, etc. So it's not about increasing state costs, it's about increasing standards and encouraging economies. And the last incorrect quote I've been able to say since HDZ was at its own price for fuel has been collected several times. Not since HDZ is in power, but since the price on the world market has risen from $40 to $140 barrel, and this is not the fault of the HDZ Government in Croatia, this is the fault of the producer countries, there HDZ is not yet in power.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13962	Thank you. Does the Government's representative want to further explain his report? Yeah. Dear Ivan Shuker Minister of Finance in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13963	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I listened very carefully to what Mr Milanovic said on behalf of the SDP club. And I'm going to say something right now that I've been saying for a few months about the basis for the VAT calculation. Well, gentlemen, read the European Union directives. Read the European Union Directives. How do you expect the basis for calculating VAT to be contrary to what is prescribed in these directives? The law cannot pass in Brussels. So let's not keep playing with things that are not based on legislation where we want to go. It is clear there that the basis for calculating VAT is. I've said it several times, but from the SDP club it keeps repeating it. I don't mind it, it's your political right but let me be the representative of the government here in front of the Croatian public, in front of this House of the High I say it. So it is precisely prescribed that it is the basis for calculating VAT and no one else can do it differently and there is clearly saying that everything but taxes is included inside. So, and excise duties, and customs and everything. Also, to say this in this House that European Union countries are proposing a reduction of VAT is simply a proposal. At the moment when they come to this, you will see whether this government will react or not, but at the same time you forgot to say something else, that Croatia has a zero VAT rate on basic living foods, which has no member of the European Union. You also know, given that you have your representatives on the National Committee that at this point we are fighting a battle in the negotiating positions when it comes to the fact that the zero VAT rate remains for a few years. But we also said that if this zero VAT rate has to be raised to a minimum of 5% as prescribed by the European Union directives that the VAT rate cannot be less that the government will offer counter measures to mitigate it. That's just as clearly said. Tell me at the moment when the price of the elevator is 9 kuna and 80, that the excise duty is held at 8 kuna, forgive me for the expression by Mr Milanovic and the SDP club is an essential ignorance of Croatian laws. The excise on diesel fuel is one kuna. Thus, how to bring fuel to the price of 8 kuna by abolishing excise duties. The excise charge is one kuna. And you still have a kuna and 20 on the freeways. It was common here in the Parliament when we discussed that these are the funds from which Croatian highways will be built and roads maintained. It was a club of SDP proposals before, and I listen to it every time we make a budget to introduce 60 lira excise duties on the construction of railways. Now one elemental question is being asked. If that had been introduced, then what would the excise duties be today and what the fuel price would be today. But also, ladies and gentlemen, don't forget that Croatia's highways and Croatian roads were signed by the Croatian government's decision to pay them 60 liras of excise duties. You cannot change the terms of the contract when you remember because you now tell these banks that Croatia is removing 60 lips for Croatian highways and that there is no substitute for that you are violating the basic conditions of a financial contract. Are we going to get to the financial world telling us that we're unreliable, that we don't carry out our duties properly? But it's just some things about taxes. If I had heard here today any concrete proposal from the SDP Club that something needs to be done but not just something to do but to say how much it costs and from which funds it will be settled I would have taken off my hat. However, to list the conclusions and not to say how much it costs and not to say from which funds it will settle, I do not see how to draw up a budget, especially a budget such as Croatia where 72% of the budget, 73 years in advance, practically a given one. It's pension costs, it's salary costs, and it's health costs. So you already have 72% of the budget in question. Whether it is a message to Croatian citizens we will have to introduce new taxes or we will have to raise the deficit. The deficit costs. All the deficits of the Republic of Croatia, therefore the budget deficit in all previous years in this year cost 5 billion kuna. That's how much interest costs we're paying in the end, all of us. Also, to say that the price of fuel during the HDZ government went so much and so much and not to say how much the price of barrels was at that moment, what price today will you say that it is only a Croatian problem, that it is not a global problem. Because look, in early 2004 or late 2003, the price of barrels was somewhere around $36. Today she's $148. The price of super was about 6 kuna 45, 6 kuna 50 and today it's 9 kuna and something else. Is the ratio between the raw materials and this. Also, when we talk about the current account of the balance of payments let's do it a little analytically, let's see three or four years ago, or five years ago how much in the current balance of payments's current energy imports were, in fact, in the total imports of energy imports and how much energy imports are now. Croatia does not spend a thousand barrels of oil, Croatia spends dozens, hundreds of millions of barrels of oil. And add that just this increase of a few dozen dollars, so you'll see how much is going on there. With this, don't think that in any way I want to justify the situation of export coverage by import. To talk about that this measure proposed for electricity is like this or something, I'd like to say, I'd like to hear what it is, which is the reference size based on which some kind of social assistance would be given to citizens? The only thing we really have consumption at this point is that, I said it when we rebalance the budget, and I'm going to do it again here. If I base the analysis after the first or second month it turns out that those 900 and so many thousands of numbers or some 47% is a lot of weekends and all that together, that there are few citizens... Well, it's not two thousand, two thousand 500 sacred letters so it can't be changed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's very easy to change. However, there is something that unfortunately all of us in previous years have failed to do for a variety of political reasons, and therefore I say this government had the political power to pass such a law, which is a personal identification number. If we had him today, we could have no problem proposing any social measure because we would have a clear indication of whether someone like this, someone like that. Because looking behind the salary of two or three thousand kunas can hide someone who has a large agricultural holding owned by his parents at home. But they live in a joint household. And that's something we discussed with the social partners and the status of that household to see the full income of people living together. So keeping social policy is not easy because it is not an invention of us in Croatia but something and what we are talking to international experts who have far more experience than we are. But I repeat the personal identification number is something that will bring us better. The price of gasoline is definitely not the highest in Croatia, it is not the lowest. But we cannot say that the price of electricity in Croatia is not the lowest of all countries. Far, far the lowest. The price of electricity. But also when we talk about social sensitivity. I wouldn't want to go back to a period of 6, 7 or 8 years when social rights were fucked. And even when the agreement with the IMF was signed that all government employees would be paid 10%, that they wouldn't get a Christmas card, that they wouldn't get a regress, and on behalf of that we had to pay over a billion and a half court costs. But look like today is a global crisis, and at that point I have a lot of understanding for the government. It just couldn't have been arranged for some kind of agreement if it wasn't put in. So this government was brought to the wall so that it could base certain documents and tell the international community here you see, we'll do it. Maybe at that point it was a painful, maybe more painful step than today's global crisis. To say that this government has no strategy and we, in parallel, secure 600 million in the state budget precisely for these interventions. The Ministry of Agriculture guarantees fishermen and farmers the price of blue Disel at 5 kuna. The rest will be covered by the budget subsidy. The Ministry of the Sea, Tourism and Transport and Development of Small Shipers also provides the price of Disel at 5 kuna then you can't say that in certain branches it doesn't work. To talk about it today will be the price of gas, what will you do? What we said we were going to do to secure 600 million in the budget is what we did. Although you didn't vote for that budget. When the price of gas comes up, then you'll see what the reaction is. The important thing is that you have the money because if you don't have the money, there's nothing you can do. I won't say it's enough, but we should also look at the fiscal opportunities of Croatian citizens and Croatian economies. Are we going to jump to the 7.8% deficit again? We want to send a message to all the international financial institutions that are now praising us for our policy-making policy-making. People aren't able to. We have to spend it and that. 'Cause look at all that costs. And if you want to pay for something and if you suggest something, write down how much it costs. And tell me where you're gonna pay for it. That you're in our position. We said ours. We made the budget rebalance clear. 600 million for this. 200 million incentives. You can't say 140 million to the wood, textile and leather industry isn't helping that branch. You can't say that a minimum wage increase isn't something that helps. You can't claim that if you propose in the law an increase in the untaxable part to 1900 kuna that it's a terrible social move, and at the same time when we propose 1800 kuna, it's not worth anything. Also something about a constant story about centralised and decentralisation. At this point, the only tax revenue that is linked to the region, which is linked to the place of residence of those who pay it, is income tax. At this point, the total income belongs to local self-government units. We're gonna give part of the profit tax, we're gonna give part of the VAT to local self-government units? Let's say it's the position. But whom we'll take that money to reroute to local self-government units. And do we wonder if units of local self-government are charging their incomes that they can collect? Don't tell a story about the capital gains tax anymore. Which tax would now be paid by stockholders whose shares dropped 40.50%. Do not be fooled that one transaction like this or such will happen again in Croatia. So no one has ever calculated what revenue would be from that basis? But look, gentlemen dear, without increasing the tax... with a 10% reduction in VAT rates for tourism, with an increase in the non-taxable part, with various income tax reliefs as an investment boost, we have increased the budget from 80 to 120 billion kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And if you try to find an excuse this year for something that is the work of thousands of people above all in the Tax and Customs Administration and colleagues at the State Inspectorate because it's the result of their work because we have set up a different concept of functioning. At the time when it is clearly stated in Zagreb that 200 of the largest taxpayers, in Osijek, Split and Rijeka, the result is seen. For a great one can hide more than tens of thousands of little ones on which he rode before. So the result. We can't get away from the fact that we don't have a gray economy. It was all countries that entered the European Union. You cannot say that Slovenia, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland, Hungary, Lithuania, Estonia did not correct the amount of their gross domestic product for the share of the grey economy. You can't say that. That's what they did. When we do, you will see that certain macroeconomic indicators in Croatia will look different. Or something else. We were offered two or three years ago as a model for Lithuania and Estonia. You have to do this, you have to do this. See today when it comes to external vulnerability, when it comes to inflation and some other things that Lithuania and Estonia are at the beginning. And why is that? Because they didn't run one continuous policy. And we can fight today any way we want, but the top institution of the community we want to enter, EUROSTAT told us clearly how much the Croatian deficit is. This is proof that we have seduced the order, that we have reformed certain consumption on the one hand, and that on the other hand we have also channeled the fight against the grey economy part of the money that used to go into private pockets to direct the state budget. So he brings in what the government did. You're talking about energy development. My colleague Linic and I can fight to the unconsciousness of who he was when he was supposed to make the refinery, modernize the Sisak and Rijeka refinery, and he can convince me as much as I want him, but unfortunately we both have the same result today, that modernization is not over. God forbid it could have started in 2001 when it started, today it might have been a situation that our fuel price wouldn't have been like this because today the world's biggest gold mines are modern refineries because demand is what it is. Invest in that energy? Okay. How? What model, in what way? It's just a hint of anything that comes from a knife. Velite, there was no infrastructure. You can't say that you built a pipeline from Fažana to Karlovac and that you rerouted it to Split and that you connected the pipeline from Lucko to Ivanjo Rijeka. You can't say that. It was done during this government. So aware of the fact that we do not want the gas extracted in our Adriatic to go across Rijeka and Slovenia and coming to Croatia, thus increasing costs, we made this pipeline with the ultimate goal of reaching Split. Of course, these days, a month ago, Split and Zagreb signed a joint agreement on the establishment of a joint gasification company Split and a wider region. Well, you can't say it has nothing to do with energy. If one energy that is currently number 1 in the world puts it in a position to be used by 80, 90% of Croatian citizens or you say there is no energy investment, and you simply can't say that. You forgot that we are the only country in the area of the former Yugoslavia that has completed an agreement with Russia on the clinical debt of the former Yugoslavia and the former Soviet Union and that two energy facilities are agreed there, among other things. One is a gas pipeline to the Croatian border, and the other is equipment for one thermal power plant. You can't say it's nothing either. That's 105 million dollars just that thermal power plant. I remember the announcement before. The price of food and the amount of pay. The height of the pay is the result of the work. Any growth in wages above that is, by all economic theories, the biggest generator of inflation. That's what all economists say. But look, now the wages are growing. We, for example, have secured the state administration this year, and last year and next year, growth pays 6%, it gets a regression, it gets Christmas cards and everything. And we don't worry about the standard, let the government cut from 10 to 40% of my customs and tax collectors 40% of their salaries and they're socially sensitive. I just don't feel right about that. But not to compare some things anymore, I think we are all aware of the fact that this is all expensive happening to the impact of Croatian citizens. But I, and while I was an opposition representative, never criticized that I hadn't suggested what to do and how much it cost. And if this interpretation had such indicators, then I would try to build on such indicators to make the budget of the Republic of Croatia and see if it is a new tax burden on citizens, so you, with this interpretation, are proposing a 7.8% deficit or are proposing a new burden on Croatian citizens, but ladies and gentlemen HDZ cannot accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13964	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13965	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is incorrect that Croatia is not there, it is not among the countries with the highest price of gasoline because there is a lower price of gasoline in its surroundings of 12 countries. It is incorrect that the measure proposed by the Government, which applies around electricity as social energy, I will say on a personal example. Yesterday I received a letter, or notice from Elektra that I am in the group that won't raise the price of electricity by a single lip because I'm occasionally in Zagreb. I'll probably get that in Chakovec. Surely, no such social measure and a third thing would be necessary for the parliamentary representative or parliamentary representative not to have any effect on the capital gains tax due to the shares, but in this year a dividend tax would be collected. Croatian companies pay 4 billion and 600 million kuna dividends in this year, on which they will not pay a cent of the tax.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13966	Thank you. We move to a debate by clubs and is the first club of the Croatian Democratic Community, the distinguished representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13967	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. On 24 April of this year, the SDP representative club in the Croatian Parliament sent the President of the Croatian Parliament an interpretation of the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the subject of the role of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the reduction of the impact of energy prices, on the standard of living of citizens and suggested that after the debate, it should be concluded that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is in charge of using the possibility of using the floating excise duty and protecting the price of euro diesel up to 8 kuna per litre and delivering for discussion and acceptance of several laws and programmes. In an explanation of the interpretation of the SDP club, it states that in the Government of the Republic of Croatia the problem of energy does not have a key place of development of the Republic of Croatia and that the Government does not, for the time being, take any measures to address the negative consequences of inflation on the living standard of the most vulnerable groups of citizens, employees and pensioners. It is indisputable that energy has long since become the most important factor in both national and global economic activities and national and world economies. It is also undeniable that the level of energy prices directly affects the prices of many products and services, but also the general level of prices. In order to understand this problem, it is important to emphasise the indisputable nature of the fact that the demand for oil and oil derivatives is inescapable at the price and that there is a lack of sufficient substituting effect in the field of energy. It is also important to stress that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is paying particular attention to the energy problem and that, as a fundamental starting point of its energy policy, it has made the security and quality of supply absolutely aware that energy is not only an important condition for further economic growth and development, but also a fundamental prerequisite for the functioning of the Croatian economy. The government is particularly focused on adapting the energy sector legislation with the acquis of the European Union and creating an incentive legislative framework for the area of renewable energy sources, and so far more than 220 investment requirements for wind power plants, solar power plants and small hydropower plants have been imposed. The goal is to make the share of renewable energy sources in total electricity consumption 5.5 by 2010 and 20% by 2020. The harmonisation of legislation is also carried out in terms of excise duties, and so the excise duty on energy is one of the compliance segments of taxed excise duty on energy and reaching minimum levels of taxation. Accordingly, the levels of energy taxation in the Republic of Croatia were presented to the European Commission during the screening for Chapter 16, and the European Commission noted in its report that in its compliance with the acquis, Croatia still has not reached a minimum level of taxation of excise duties prescribed by the directive in some segments. In this regard, it should be borne in mind that in July 2007, the amount of excise duty on unleaded gasoline was higher than it is now and that on diesel fuel we are just reaching the excise duty minimum prescribed by the directive. Therefore, further reduction of energy excise duties would not be in line with our compliance with the European Union's acquis, which at this time could cause us additional difficulties in the negotiations. We should stress what fiscal effects we would get by realising the SDP proposal to apply the floating excise duty spotfully and protect the price of euro diesel up to 8 kuna per litre. In order to maintain the price of euro diesel at a level of 8 kuna per litre at this point, it is necessary to lower the amount of excise duty from one kuna to 0.43 kuna per litre. It would be necessary to reduce the current excise duty level by 0.57 kuna. Given the estimated amount of euro diesel for 2008, reducing excise duties by 57% of the state budget would result in an annual loss of around 960 million kuna. If, on the same basis, the price of eurosuper at 8 kuna level would be maintained, the calculations show that the current excise duty from 1.65 lira would have to be reduced by 0.45 kuna or to 1.2 kuna per litre, resulting in an additional loss of excise duty revenue of around 460 million kuna at an annual level. This would have left the budget with no budget planned and the price would have increased anyway because, for example, at the time of the world market price impelation of oil prices, it was $100 per barrel and today only 2.5 months later, as much as $140 per barrel and 40% higher. It is not necessary to ignore the fact that the rise in oil derivatives prices is the result of the global energy crisis. It should neither be ignored nor the fact that at the time this government received its first mandate of world market oil prices, it was $40 and that today it is increasing by a frightening 3.5 times and that the simultaneous price of euro diesel in Croatia has increased significantly less than cca. 80%. Of course, one can say that this is partly because in the meantime the dollar has dropped, but by valorising that increase in world market oil prices in the last five years is more than twice as fast as the simultaneous increase in euro diesel prices or Eurosuper prices in Croatia. We should be aware of the fact that the Republic of Croatia has no effect on the level of world prices or on the world price of oil in its national economy at all. At least 500 European companies have a greater impact on global economic movements with their economic activity, have a greater impact on global supply and demand and thus on prices than the Republic of Croatia with its entire economy. This fact most credible confirms that the Republic of Croatia, for example, spent an average of 30 million barrels of oil annually, and that daily worldwide consumption is on average three times higher, or greater than 90 million barrels, which makes Croatia participate in total global consumption with negligible 0.09%. The abovementioned facts in the HDZ Club are sufficient to consider an unfounded interpretational conclusion of the SPD to be in charge of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to make a spotful use of the possibility of using a floating excise duty and to protect the price of euro diesel at 8 kuna per litre. With regard to the second conclusion of the proposed interpretation, which is required by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to produce and to submit to the Croatian Parliament for discussion and adoption of a whole series of laws and programmes, it should be stressed that it does not comply with Article 190 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, which allows the interpretation at the session of the Parliament to open a debate on the work of the Government, on the whole, in whole or in certain decisions of the Government or of the Ministry, if they deviate from the general position of the Government or the Ministry in the implementation of the law or established policy. Given the fact that on 12 January this year, the Croatian Parliament expressed confidence in the Government of the Republic of Croatia and then presented its programme for its term of office in 2008 to 2011, and since the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not deviate from the presented programme, the HDZ Club also considers this conclusion unfounded. The HDZ Club is an unacceptable interpellation claim that the government is currently not taking any measures to address the negative consequences of inflation on the life standard of the most vulnerable groups of employees and pensioners. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is aware of the increasing impact of market conditions of price management and market formation but is aware that the constant increase in world oil prices has the greatest impact on the standard of the most vulnerable part of the population and has therefore taken and adopted a series of measures to confirm its social sensitivity. Thus, a minimum wage law was adopted on the Government's proposal, which improved the material status of more than 115 thousand employees with minimum income. At the same time, an untaxable share of income was increased from 1600 to 1800 kuna. The budget rebalances the surplus revenue over planned revenue will be used in several areas with specific objectives and should in particular highlight the introduction of structural support to the population and the economy in order to reduce the impact of energy prices on which 600 million kuna is allocated and 250 million kuna subsidies and 350 million kuna of compensation to citizens and households. Of course, the government continuously monitors the movements of all economic factors and prepares and new programmes and measures of economic and fiscal policy which will create assumptions for the retention and growth of the standards of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. However, we need to be aware of the fact that the energy problem has a global feature and that it can become one of the main inflation generators at the world level, but also the fact that there is no more cheap energy and that it will have to rationalise the relationship to its consumption and that economic experts on both sides of this pay phone and the public conference have already spoken. In view of the above, the HZD club will vote against the proposed conclusions set out in the interpretation of the SDP Representatives Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13968	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Davor Bernardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13969	Dear Mr. Vice President, my colleague Maric has said a whole series of false allegations, and I will try to concentrate on four. The first is that the government is doing everything to increase the share of renewable energy sources, so to 5.8% in 2010 and 2020. 20%. This is simply not true because, in that case, funds in the state budget should be higher compared to last year, and they are smaller. I've given the amendment to it, unfortunately it's not accepted. Another incorrect allegation by counterpart Maric is that the minimum wage law improves the status of employees and pensioners. This simply cannot be true because the salary of this law has increased between 20 and 30 kuna, so we cannot say that 20 and 30 kuna is an improvement in the status of pensioners and employees. The third incorrect quote by counterpart Maric said the government allowed an increase in personal deduction from 1.600,00 to 1,800. It's only partially correct because...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13970	Thank you very much. You're out of time. We have an announcement. The 26th session of the Committee on Legislatives, which was scheduled for today on 11 July at 13:30, is postponed for Monday 14 July 2008 at 9.00 a.m. in the hall "Stepan Radic" number 133. We're still going to discuss clubs. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13971	Honorable Vice President, the minister is gone, Your Honor, Mr. MPs. The IDS stands for something else, to remove excise duties on oil derivatives. Now, that would be one concrete suggestion. That would certainly mean a little less money in the budget, but let us tax the extra profit of our monopolies, let us simply charge the fee on tourist land and so on. I am aware that the world rules rule with energy, but also what we have heard many times, let us not forget that Croatia has no world salary. Which would mean, in particular, if these excise duties were abolished, that is one kuna less on oil derivatives, that would be 1.65 kuna less on Eurosuper 95. Can that happen? It's probably not gonna happen. The minister says about this, he'll defend the price of electricity, but he won't defend the price of oil. But when that's the case, at least these little boaters who drive people around now in the season should treat them the same as fishermen. How great is the euro in Croatia? On today, what I've checked is 9.65 kuna or 1.33 euros. Eurodizell in Croatia today is 9.93 kuna or 1.37 euros per average exchange rate. Now what's it like in Europe? One Austria, for example, has an even cheaper europer than us in Croatia, the euro diesel is more expensive for them. Belgium is more expensive, Bosnia is clearly cheaper, not much but it is. Bulgaria is cheaper, not much, but it's for 008 of those cents. Eurodizell is more expensive in the Czech Republic than in Croatia. The Eurosuper is cheaper. Denmark is more expensive, France is more expensive. In Greece, Eurosuper is cheaper than in Croatia for some 7 limes, and euro diesel is more expensive for them. Italy is clearly more expensive. The Netherlands is more expensive, Germany more expensive, Poland more expensive, Portugal is cheaper in Slovakia than in Croatia by 0.01 means those cents. They're more expensive with Euroditters. Slovenia is much cheaper than Croatia. In Serbia, the euro is more expensive than in Croatia while diesel is cheaper. Sweden collects and now I don't list all the other countries. That's where we are. But what's important is whether these oil harvests will be further, further. Will it come I don't know about the impact of Israel on Iran if it doesn't happen God the oil will be over 200 euros overnight and it will be within the time limit immediately. We are already financing today with these prices de facto American presence in Iraq and perhaps some preventive shocks. What has recently proved to be one of the first-class national topics, it is the privatisation of INA. Whether it will come to that, what will happen will we see. This country certainly needs money. Yesterday I read in some newspaper that, say, this month, people who work on May 3 have no salary. I have the impression that when this information about the merger of the privatisation of the INA, the government somehow played with the opposition. I don't know about the INA merger with Mol, we all started talking about the sale, and it's probably going to come to the sale of the INA stock, which I think is just as bad as the merger. How Croatia can build an energy future without INA and tomorrow without Croatian electricity because the privatisation of the part of HEP is announced. Without INA, without HEP there is no energy self-esteem, independence of the Republic of Croatia. But after what I said, INA's privatisation will probably come through and HEP should be afraid of it. INA privatisation has ruined INA, and HEP privatisation will ruin HEP. Without INA, without HEP, the state will be, the state of Croatia, I dare say one limited sovereignty, and that is why it is now necessary to say no further privatisation of INA, not privatisation of Croatian electricity. It is clear that INA will be privatised by some leg of the Privatisation Act that will come here before the Parliament. I personally think it was a cardinal mistake to go there in 2002 or 2003 to sell those 25+1 shares of INA with 50% management rights when we transferred it to Mola. Just as the cardinal errors were all future privatisations of the INA with the aim of gaining first of all some electoral favors for citizens or for individual categories, for example. A defense attorney and something like that. In the '90s, one INA could buy both OMV and MOL together, not once, but maybe two, three times. Today, our INA has become hunted thanks to the supervisory committees in which ministers sit or have sat thanks to the administration that pushes this privatisation to probably protect itself in those places. I'm holding that oil crisis whether someone wants to admit it or not, they're still escalating, and we're depriving ourselves of the INA's influence on the oil reserves and reserves that are beneath the submersibles, below the Slavonian plains and so on. We are the very fact that we controlled what is in 100% state ownership, so we managed to control the Croatian electricity industry for three years to control the price of electricity. If this HEP had been privatized 3, 10 or 15 years ago, I'm telling you that price and electricity would have been as wild as the price of oil. INA clearly succeeds, and this is already a political perversion to control the price just before the elections, and it should also be discussed elsewhere. Back in '99. years INA and MOL were able to share or share shares of 1:1. Today this ratio is 1:3, we know in 4.5 years it's going to be worse. In the meantime, we also sold white nights which is a tragedy. The new sources of gas, oil were not found and the question is whether we will ever be able to sell it to the INA to find them or whether others via the INA will do so on our behalf on the ground of the Republic of Croatia. I personally hold that those who run the INA are responsible among other things for this condition, but also for sucking up that company from the inside. We see that somewhere early this year or late last year, MOL bought Chermakov Tifon for 1 billion and 80 million kuna. On the other hand, at the annual INA level, there is a net profit after taxation of about 2 billion or more kunas. Why didn't she enter such a privatization? And it would be good for someone to take an interpretation of this Tiffon, the sale and everything else, because we see that from the state salary, not as in the case of some generals, it can be very rich overnight and reach up to 1 billion or more kunas. If it goes to merger means INA, MOL, OMV, it doesn't matter what, it's sure it has to be public tender, it's going to happen fast, if it goes to merger means shareholders will definitely start losing from the MOL, they will lose the state budget. According to some estimates seven days ago, that loss would have been 880 million kuna, today it's certainly more. What we need at this point is especially afraid, which will happen if the price of oil continues to wild, if it reaches 200 euros soon. There will be inflation, there will be an external debt growth, there may be a reduction, perhaps a couple-nepar, which will say that the Milke Planinc debt may once again fly over Croatia, there will be a fall in wages, unemployment, etc., etc. In one word, all those who led the INA, all those who made those privatisations from the '90s to 2008 are responsible for the collapse of a company that was largely declared by the Homeland War. For the end, what do you say? We need to put clear heads together, we have heard this so many times today, we need to reach some consensus, we don't need to play too much with people's emotions because it always comes back, we need to offer solutions, we clearly need to find them, but we also need to recognise that Croatia is in a difficult economic crisis. The last time I spoke to the minister, we introduced VAT into customs that should be paid in eight days. It's a huge blow to small entrepreneurs. Inflation, oil, electricity, food, impact on the citizens. I hope this amendment to the Budget Law is a blow to local self-government. Foreign debt galloping, we've crossed 36 billion euros today and not counting any further. I know that it is not much better even in our environment, but the problem is not solved by ignoring, the problem is not solved by marginalising the opposition and therefore the IDS club supports this interpretation to simply discuss the energy future of the Republic of Croatia. Is there a solution? I don't know. There are no major solutions in our neighbouring Slovenia, not in Austria, not in Italy, not in France, not in Great Britain, let alone in Croatia, but then let the suspension of excise duties be considered. And it may also have to be said that this country still lives beyond its means. How do you solve this problem? Of course, I do. But when you tell someone you need to work more in the Republic of Croatia with that password, you can't go clearly into elections. For last, another little detail so I don't skip it. Working on Sundays in the context of energy policy. We're selling INA now, and on Sundays, it's only going to be able to run pumps that will be owned by foreign companies. So the foreigners will be able to work in Croatia, though at pumps, 50 weeks or 52 weeks longer than Croatian merchants. So it wasn't enough that we gave them a 25% plus 1 share of 50% management rights there in 2002, 2003, and now it's coming in 2008 and now we're going to give it to the Hungarians or the Austrians that 365 days a year can run trade and be unfair to these small traders, etc. The fact that, HDZ gentlemen, the HDZ wanted to ease this "attack" coming from Kaptola, there is no dilemma, but this Law on the Work of Trade is simply harmful and I am glad that Mr. Economy Minister, Vice-President of the Government, is here, and I would be interested in whether the Libyan Liburnia will be sold by the end of this month. For the end, what to say, let's train Croatia, but even so almost in this country will not come. And this interpretation of the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as a contribution to the debate on an energy future of the IDS club supports.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13972	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, distinguished representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13973	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The motto of this interpretation is the impact of energy prices on citizens' standards, something that we have been discussing very intensively in the last few weeks, and especially through budget rebalance, something that we are discussing completely justified, because the pain and weight of the problem, our citizens feel practically daily, and the irony of support or mitigation of the increase in electricity prices mentioned by my colleague Zgrebec, and I was welcomed yesterday by this letter at home, to pay for the current as usual. Therefore, there must be more of us, colleague Zgrebec and I have the guts to say it, I believe that others will have the strength to say it, but surely there are a lot of those in this assembly, and they confirm our words that we have spoken, and that these measures and measures are about to affect the impact on the increase in electricity prices and that minimum wage we have said that they will be focused, first of all our citizens of medium purchasing power, even more, even the lowest ones. During today's debate, however, it is crucial that Croatia, that the Croatian state fully welcomed the energy crisis, the crisis of rising food prices and that in the whole story with its work it brought about, in fact, sacrificed the standards of its citizens, that key sectors of energy, agriculture all these years have been completely neglected and that we do not have there. We probably have a declaration, we probably have a form on paper, but if it were effective and useful, it's safe that today this topic wouldn't open, and certainly not to talk about it today. Minister Shuker asked a small question one very logical question, how much it costs and where the money came from. So I will, through my debate, try to talk about a segment that definitely has connections and that will eventually definitely get involved in our energy strategy, but in terms of implementation, not declaratively, and these are substitutable sources of energy. In fact, it is well known that according to the 2003 Council of Europe Directive of the European Union, and there is already an obligation for us, in 2010, there must be a representation of 5.75%, or when we convert to tons of oil, that is, for Croatia, 104 thousand tonnes of oil, we must replace it with renewable energy sources. 2020. 180 thousand tons, 2030. 452 thousand tons. Bioenergy is only possible from nature, and I didn't say anything smart and something that isn't known, but I'll mention that somewhere around 52% of the country's agricultural areas, somewhere around 3 million is processed, that we have so many agricultural areas, that it's 70% of that, that's 2 million 100, that it's processed million and 200, and that we don't have a million acres of solutions yet. For a million hectares of farmland, we still have no solutions, and according to the standards of agricultural cultures that are normally planted in these areas, we have about 800 hectares of unfavourable land for agricultural production, but we have 800 hectares of cca 800 hectares of talk in rough, agricultural areas on which it is possible to plant high-energy trees. That we have and that can be and that's potential, that's for sure. And when we collect, not much longer, when we collect possible biomass with a non-processing agricultural area, when we collect what could be done, it's these 800 hectares for standard agricultural production that are not suitable, when we collect what we have and in livestock production, I'm talking about biogas, it's all carrying the savings calculated into tons of oil of 673 thousand tons. He's carrying 673 thousand tons all together. Another vast area that's a little bit spoken of, but it's definitely untapped, and there's around us, there's a forest mass. Of the 2 million 700, this country has 2 million hectares of forest and forest land with a special story in the forest land there today I really don't need to open it, but no one opens it, and it's going to be quite a problem like this agricultural land today. And not to be a longer, annual growth, so in this space it grows somewhere around 400 million cc's of wood mass, that the annual growth of that wood mass is 10 million, that the annual cutting is 6.5 million, but what's key, and that's what the profession says, the profession of the forest college, which is that it's suitable for bioenergy, is available somewhere around 3 million cc's. And when it's converted into an oil equivalent, it's a new 600 thousand tons of oil a year. When it's converted into the price of barrels of oil, it's $535 million of savings or 2 billion and 400 in kunas. When we make everything summa summarum, so we have at our disposal the sum around us, the agricultural land of the forest, we have about a million and 273 thousand, 530 to be precise, equivalent or minor oil imports. A million 273,000. When we recalculate it into money, it's about a billion and 200 million euros or 5.2 billion kuna. So he's got money. He's got money. 5 billion 200 is not small money, huge money, certainly not enough but to use this potential. Mr. Minister, make sure if there's no other budget deficit, it's the one that can put it into operation, but those are the things that need to be run and that you need to know and what to say. By the way, I'm using the opportunity to believe that someone knows what I'm reading is something I read from the Faculty of Works from a scientific gathering organised by the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts and the title is "Agriculture and Forestry as producers of renewable energy sources". I would very much like the Government and every minister to take that book in their hands and to make sure that those potentials inside are very good and wonderful, and the core and clear dictionaries mentioned, to mention them because when we enter the European Union one day, you can be sure that these potentials will be used by someone else, definitely, will be used by someone else. Therefore, if I don't have much longer definitely in this segment of potential we also have in the Croatian People's Party club that is the biggest reserve of our country and I said that the other day, I will repeat that our country's largest reserve is in the ability to manage the state, so change the way the government works. And I believe and believe that this interpretation today that we are discussing is not one but more of them in the function of changing the way the government works because these changes and new changes can be addressed not only by energy and food, the economic development strategy, the regional development strategy, but also by driving the potentials that it certainly has in this country. However, they are blocked. And this potential when we talk about bioenergy is blocked. There were mentions of INA. The INA will certainly still be debated a lot more definitely. I simply don't want to believe that our prime minister was advised by someone to replace the shares as presented in Cavtat. I just don't want to believe that something that our energy independence is even furry, but it's still, that we're offering it for some kind of membership fee because all that's below 25% is a membership fee somewhere and someone. I just don't want to believe that one of our prime minister's advisors advised us to exchange shares instead of trying to make sure we're ready, whether we have the options, whether we have the strength, whether we want to fight to take 25 plus one share of the MOL. And I'm afraid it's going to go through the stock exchange, and it's definitely going to happen through the stock exchange, which is that everyone who has INA shares takes a one-time profit from selling our energy independence. That's the key. We in the Croatian People's Party fully support the interpretation submitted by colleagues from the SDP and I am convinced and I hope that the government will get the strength and the ways, we will certainly not hear it today after this speaker, but that it will get the strength and means to those potentials, and I have tried to say a few words about them that it will also use in time before our citizens, to carry out its commitment to our citizens that it has taken over, although supported by a coalition agreement. And the fact is that we have also recently seen in the Agricultural Support Act that it is now deviating itself from the coalition agreement and not encouraging those things that have been defined and which have been said in the way they were said and in the coalition agreement. Therefore, we support this and we still hope that the government will have the strength to launch concrete and quality moves in favour of our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13974	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13975	My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the government. When the SDP referred this interpretation to the parliamentary procedure, then we heard a public statement from the SDP club, which is that the SDP proposes irrelevant topics such as these interpretations because it simply wants to act destructively in this Parliament and does not want all European laws to be passed, so it proposes some topics around which parliament will waste time and nothing in principle will happen. Today, also one member of the HDZ Club spoke as the SDP president as a proposer of this interpretation said this was all a big demagogy. I have to admit that it's hard for me to accept that this is an irrelevant topic and that demagogue is when it comes to citizens who are getting harder and harder to live every day, about citizens who really can hardly make ends meet, at least the vast majority of them. It's hard for me to accept that this is an unimportant topic when every day, so little by little, they grow interest on housing loans and less people and they take home loans because they don't know what they're getting into, what uncertainty and uncertainty they're in. So, when they don't know how we're going to meet the fall, at what standard, at what prices, since even in the autumn, we're announcing an increase in prices and food and gas and how much we see these other energys. Just out of these last ones, I think seven or eight days when we were discussing the state budget, so I was talking about the price of gasoline and diesel at the time. So, in just these few days, we've experienced another accumulation of oil derivatives, so we can only expect that the oil prices will continue to go up. I would also like to say that, unfortunately, in his presentation, Minister Schuker spoke very little about our citizens, he said very little about how our citizens live. He talked a lot more about his problems, about the budget, how to draw up the budget, how to make some decisions. He also talked about, about the deficit, what reputation Croatia will then have outside with such or such deficits. I would be as happy as all of us at the SDP club if Mr. Minister here had talked a little bit more about the citizens and how they live and what he and the entire HDZ government are going to do to make this blow to the standard easier for citizens. We've suggested solutions, this isn't the first time. We've had several legal projects that we've proposed what the government should do to help citizens ease the fall of standards. However, will you as Government enter some budget savings, will you increase the deficit, will you go to greater burden on the rich, gentlemen, it is your responsibility. We can't get into that part. We can give certain solutions, but, well, yes, but that's what you have to say. Mr Ministers, if you look forward to colleagues in the European Union, therefore, here, primarily to this European Commission guideline, where they are recommending, because of the impact on the standard of citizens in the European Union, that the VAT rate is reduced by 5%, they here say, in these guidelines, how many products and services to which the energy products should be reduced to and to which the VAT rate should be reduced, to make life easier for their citizens, but do not say whether they will do so by increasing the deficit, saving, better taxation and the richer ones do not speak. So it's something that's their decision, but this just shows that they care about their citizens, about the standard of their citizens, and that solutions to fill the budget will find quite certain in their policies. So I think that here, primarily, all of us should be in the best interest of our citizens, and the solutions so here we have offered. You must say the rest because you are in power. It cannot also be said that this is a demagogue topic because unfortunately all research shows that our citizens feel that they are getting worse. In fact, 34% of our citizens claim that the financial situation from month to month is getting worse and that they feel at their daily consumption that they can buy less or better say that three-quarters of the citizens spend all their money on daily needs. In all, all indicators indicate that the largest number of our citizens spend their wages on directing, on nutrition, and on schooling children. So everything else has been a luxury to them lately. Likewise, it should be said that even after the GFK survey, we fell in purchasing power for two places. So that shows the decline of our citizens' standards lately. The fact is also that it has been trying to adapt a little bit lately to not being a real indicator in Croatia, but despite all this, indicators are that prices have increased, food prices have soared by 11% in the last 4 months, and inflation has officially reached 6.4% which is the highest inflation in the last 8 years. In fact, economic analysts say that this is the result and product of a single government policy that has neither an economic strategy nor an economic programme nor an energy strategy. The fact is that recently, however, or better said since Mr. Sanader's government president since 2003, Eurosuper has raised 50%, diesel by 80% and blue diesel by as much as 140%. So much for that promise that the gas will stick to 8 kuna. So much for what was promised to the citizens in the election campaign, and it was quickly forgotten when it came to power. As for the increase in electricity prices, it therefore increased to citizens, the largest number of citizens by 24%. We also came to the data, so that only 20% of the citizens will not feel this accumulation, and here our two colleagues have confirmed that maybe the highest number of people who can pay more expensive, so more expensive kilowatts of electricity, but that because they either live alone or do a lot of work are simply a category that will be covered by this one social measure, which we think is completely unfair. So if it was to help those who were socially at risk, then it certainly should have looked very different. Mr. Sanader, when the measure was brought to the government about the collection of electricity, then he said that the electricity for almost 50% of households would not be collected and that it was not such a big blow to the citizens, and even here today it was trying to say that it was not so bad. But you know, citizens see it completely differently. Here's how the citizens figured out how to collect electricity. That Mr. Sanader only told them that the electricity wouldn't collect if they didn't spend it. And that's obviously the only correct and accurate explanation. The electricity will not be collected except for those who will not spend. Everyone else will pay for that electricity. I asked one question here last time on behalf of the club, and I didn't get an answer on that question, so I hope I might get an answer today. Is it true that the unpaid electricity of private businessmen pays citizens out of their pockets? And is it true that we are importing electricity at twice as much price as we are exporting to some companies in Herzegovina? It's a question that the citizens of this country must have an answer to. So do we pay the price for someone else or do we really pay for what we've spent? The fact is, therefore, that in this country we are passing a number of laws here in Parliament, but unfortunately there are no real reforms that can in certain systems mitigate this fall of standards, or all that in some way comes to us from Europe and our environment. There is no reform of the state administration, no health reform, no reform of the energy system and no investment in the energy sector. There is no restructuring in agriculture or shipbuilding. There is no decentralisation, so all that could have contributed to Croatia's making some structural changes in the last 4 or 5 years, which would have certainly helped us not to experience such a blow to citizens' standards at this point. All of this, unfortunately, has been missing for the last five years. All that remains is the laws that have been passed, but nothing in this country has happened since the real reforms. The fact is that perhaps the most endangered category of citizens in all these gatherings is those who live on the lowest income during the month. For example, it is about 115 thousand people who are users of social assistance. So people who live on, for example, a four-member family of a thousand 360 kunas. Try living out of 1360 kunas a month and you'll see what you can do with it, you can certainly survive somewhere, you may not be hungry, but you certainly lose some of the things they do, let's say the dignified life of our citizens. Unfortunately for this category, we did not raise the amount of social compensation in 2001, it was promised at the end of this year, but because of this impact on citizens' standards, I think we should have intervened much earlier, and that we should have had a little more social sensitivity in this budget and that category of citizens who are quite certainly below the poverty line also provide a slightly larger social compensation and that means a little more funding for life during the month. The fact is also that 900 thousand pensioners, somewhere around 1,000 and something kuna, are, is the same as a number of categories in this country that are equally unjustly living on the edge of poverty. When you count on the days of the month, about that category of pensioners has about 44 kuna a day, so they may be able to buy half a loaf of bread, a liter of milk, a half a kilo of some vegetables or fruit, and meat can only really look at the butcher’s window. That someone else, therefore, meets human needs and we don't talk. So, 900 thousand pensioners in this country really live on the poverty line, we can't tell that category anything else, unfortunately the budget rebalance has passed in a way that they haven't been increased by funds but therefore, there is no, therefore it can be seen that this category will not be better in the coming period and we think that we need to take care of exactly those who are the most threatened. Therefore, some of the measures that the Government is trying to present as measures that will help the most socially vulnerable categories are now already being seen as measures that will affect the least socially endangered, therefore, these measures should then be reviewed and adapted so that we really intervene where this is most necessary. And finally in this interpretation, so there are some conclusions, maybe you should just add another conclusion, which is that you're going to reduce the VAT rate. I asked you last time around the budget, if you'd do anything about it, if you'd lower your VAT rate, then you said you wouldn't because that reduction would go into the pockets of traders and not feel it. I am only interested in how, therefore, in the European Union, this proposal to reduce VAT rates will contribute to their rise in standards. And they're just worried about the distortion of competition. And on the other hand, when we gave it, three years ago it seemed to me in the legal procedure of a proposal to cut VAT on children's clothes, equipment and Hana and some other foods, so, which are the basics of our citizens' lives, then we received from the Government a response that this was not in line with European Union standards. So, if the European Commission now proposes to reduce VAT in order to help mitigate the decline of the standards of its citizens, I see no reason not to do so in Croatia, as well as a number of other measures that we have proposed here in this interpretation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13976	Thank you. And on behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Josip Friscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13977	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Surely the topic that has been opened through this interpretation is the topic that more or less, through this or that point of the agenda of the debate in this House, we are constantly discussing, we are going back to it, we are looking for solutions, we are asking the Government to give a certain solution, because it is actually a topic that all institutions today, not only at the level of Europe, but also at the level of the world, are discussing because it is a question of energy and food. It's a question of life's survival. And then we're certainly right and we're wondering where we are today, what we've been doing, whether or not we've missed. But more importantly, what's waiting for us tomorrow, where we're going and how we're going to adapt to it. And if we're looking at the state of energy then the numerous indicators that are presented here say that of the three most significant energys, we have some and we don't have some. Yes, and some of us expect to have more and more, and for some there are forecasts and assumptions that we will depend on the world market. And surely it is important and important then to see how we treat it. Because not yesterday, not today, not last month, we didn't become smarter because the world's analysts and those who follow the relationship on the market said the barrel of oil would cross over, first it was the first prognosis of $100, then we were horrified by what would be to the standard, then some said 140, and it passed, and now some say 200. The closer it gets to heights, the less I'm disgusted. But we wonder how it affects us and our standard. Whether we're going to be able to figure me out at some point, or not to keep the fuel price going, when it comes to gasoline, whether it was for this or that purpose, believe me, it can be very short-term. Because the moment that prices rise by 20, 30, 40% and some say that it is possible, raw oil, then it must be installed in the price. And the one at the pump and the one at the... The second thing is, when we follow how this government is and in fact from this interpretation it is possible to read how the government acted and how it could behave, because it says that gas households are allowed at as much as 60% less price for heating than that gas was exported to our neighbours in Slovenia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then financial and economic might say, look at the good result, there it is achieved, it's a greater effect, believe me, and more protection. The only question is, is that our commitment? Is that why she should be attacked that she had to accept that difference from 40% of Russian gas because it was the price on the market, and at the end of the 1,07 kuna she gave it throughout the year through her decisions to our households and our citizens. I think it's something to commend them for. So we exported our profession, not supplying our market, we could achieve a 30% higher price, but then the question is how would we function. And now in the context of where the examinations and observations from the study of others are and there's where we're going to agree, they wanted to, they didn't want to. Europe today has an energy study of its needs by 2030 and they say, if something epochal doesn't happen, I guess, expecting the energy of the sun or something... 60% of the energy Europe will need with the planned growth of 4%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We've given ourselves much faster growth and what they're proposing, which is what's waiting for us, and this government is waiting for us here, too. They say those who plan to develop, who are planning new energy consumption, will have to secure the source of that energy, and it must be the state that will allow them to have transport routes to reach them. That's the direction. We can close our eyes over it, but that's what's going to welcome us very soon and what we're going to have to do together. Are there measures taken in this section of protection of citizens' standards by looking through food? Surely it is done, that it is possible more and better, it is always possible and better, but I want to say first of all that is done in this segment where this food is produced in the area of our agriculture. If it hadn't been for this Parliament's adopted budget with those sizes that we proposed for 2008, but not just fixed budget items, but from the Ministry of Finance, the promotional service of the Ministry of Agriculture, because in the first 5 months 2 billion and 250 million were paid off as an incentive, which is capital support. A spring crop would be threatened because these farmers would not have the capital to launch that sowing. Next, that's what I need, and I believe it will be constantly monitored. And a day ago, one of the measures proposed in the conclusion, we raised our hands here to bring new aids and new incentives to advance relations and increase production volumes and I believe that it will give its effects, that it will produce results because we can only influence there, or have a more significant impact on what we are creating. Where we depend on others, the other will determine the relationship. Is it possible, and how do we view relationships now related to the standard? Here, today, as we sit here in Slavonia, the last cuts fall, the wheat, those who buy it offer 1.5 kuna. Two months ago, they all knocked on the door of the Minister of Agriculture, let us join and many have imported it, and I also have customs declarations from 2.30 kuna to 2.5 kuna. And they built it all into the price of grain and the price of bread. If that measure was an intervention to ensure, what we say about bread all the time, then surely now with this state of relationship on the market, and the grain will be sufficient, there is the possibility that what is said about this half a loaf of bread, that half a loaf of bread is 20.30%, some say even 40% cheaper. And if that's the case, then it's a contribution to contributing to the standard of citizens. If it all ends up again in the pockets of any merchant, any one who will use those relationships in that chain from field to table, then they will again wonder what the government is doing. And did the government do anything to protect you from a price attack? It is, as many ministers as 10 days ago, a decision has been made that by the end of the year, blue oil will be held at 5 kuna per litre. It is also a guarantee for what is now, then it is also a guarantee for the calculation of the autumn seed because what we will do in September and sow, from this to 2010 we will eat bread. It's for me and the shifts and the contributions I'm talking about. I can be bigger and bigger, and I need to talk about it, but with what's done, if something's right, I need to point it out and underline it. One more sentence, on behalf of the HSS club, about the tax. We've been running out of tax debates in the pre-election campaign, and there's almost every debate about tax policy, but we'll talk about it, but I don't think it's primarily about social standards, social and fuel prices, because trust me, the one who has 1400 kuna or 1500 kuna income and has a four-member family, that doesn't care because a liter of euro is a diesel, that's riding on bikes, you know? So we don't hide behind them because we live among them and see how many of those liters of euro elevators are spent daily or monthly. But what we're all going to have to fight together, that where we're told that we're keeping our citizens in a privileged position, these are those foods where we have a zero rate, and through our guidelines, we're saying that as long as possible, we're left with a zero rate of bread, milk and what our daily needs are, and that's where we're going to, I believe after that, and we agree. If we have to, and one day we're going to have to comply with the tax, so it's not an additional burden but a redistribution through a reduction in another element, but surely if we are to negotiate in this segment then we will only discuss it for a certain period of time and with a lot of deviations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13978	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13979	Mr. Vice President, I'd like to correct the Vice President of the Parliament who said that low-income poor people don't care about the price of fuel. The SDP throughout this interpretation indicates that diesel is very important, because one who is poor is driven by city transport. He who is poor eats bread, and transports bread is too expensive because diesel is expensive. So we're talking about transport costs that are so high that they affect every segment of life, especially the poor.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13980	Thank you. Since the esteemed representative Dragutin Lesar is not a member of any club, we will allow him to discuss it individually. Here you are, Your Honor, Agent Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13981	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First, a few data that I believe no one will dispute, and yet they illustrate the moment and the time in which we are discussing this topic. According to the latest data that I have a four-member family basket at the level of 6.5 thousand kuna per month. But if two students are added to that basket in that family, one high school student and a student, then the cost of such a four-member family by minimum standards should be 7 thousand 359 kuna. At the same time, the average salary made in the Republic of Croatia is at the level of 5 thousand. So it's obvious from this that employees who make an average salary can't cover expenses either. So if there are two salaries in the family of four members, covering the total costs is almost impossible. If we go from this to the debate to what extent the trend in energy prices affects the growth or fall of standards or the rise in costs, and by looking at the measures the government has taken over the past few months, then we come specifically when it comes to electricity, the measures in which the burden of the state budget subsidises the increase in electricity to all households that spend up to 2,000 kilowatts. I don't really know, because I don't remember being from anyone in the government, and I specifically asked Minister Shuker to subsidize me with an increase in electricity prices, because every day in this garage in Zagreb and for lunch and dinner, I couldn't spend two thousand kilowatts. And now I'm going to be subsidized, and the four-member family with two small children won't because they objectively have to spend more than 2.5 and over 3,000 pounds a month. So on the one hand, we have a situation that citizens who neither need nor deserve, nor have asked, will have god-awful social intervention from the state to their standard, but those who have sought, who need and by the justice of the social one, will not get it. And this measure is shown as a social measure. If it were shown in the context of stimulating consumption reduction, then you would understand it, but I cannot accept it as a social measure. These days I read the information that the Italian oil company one of them paid 200m euros to the government's budget to help the poor. So in Europe, those who are engaged in energy sales are paying into the government's Fund for Helping the poor, in Croatia, in the budget of those who deal with energy production and distribution, we subsidize, or we pay as if they are poor. Whether Croatia's approach and Croatia's entry into the European Union will change and I don't believe it because it's not a coincidence. The second thing I'm wondering and I can't understand is this. These measures, presented as rescue measures, the government adopted on 12 June this year, and the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency HERA approved the opinion on a proposal to change the amount of tariff items to HEP on 6 June. And it would be no dispute if it did not say in that opinion that HEP had asked HERA for an opinion on December 28th 2007. And I am now asking why, for which reasons an independent regulatory agency did not give an opinion, the mandatory opinion at the request of HEP on an increase in the price of electricity submitted on 28 December 2007 but, behold, wonders, they give an opinion on 16 June 2008 that the Government would give this programme of favourable social intervention and help the poor through subsidising part of the increase in the price of electricity. What were the reasons that HERA kept silent for six months? What elements were present? Or the HERA isn't independent of being in cahoots with the Ban Courts and the Government and waiting for some sort of resolution package. And finally next. Croatia's electricity industry, and based on all expert opinions in 2004, has established that Croatia needs capacity, new capacity for electricity production around 1054 megawatts by 2008. That is correct, and the team agreed all those who understand electricity in electricity production, but at the same time said that right up to 2012. Croatia must plan capacity building for the next 2,000 megawatts. According to this expert assessment, the Croatian electricity industry led by Mr. Mravko has adopted a medium-term development programme and has planned to prepare the design or start of 11 electricity production facilities and these are... Zagreb of 100 megawatts and others also of 100, Sisak 250 Osijek 250, Lesce 40, Subsused 43, Kršić 7.8, Drjenje 39, Kosinj 25, Novo Virje 137 and Ombla 63 megawatt. [[You don't understand.]] Of these 11 power-generating facilities in that period, I hope one power of 40 megawatts is completed and that's Lesce. So, of the planned and rated necessary 1054 we made 40 with great uncertainty which will be in the next four years. In the days of the fiercest debate on the increase in electricity prices, Prime Minister Sanader said there is also a need to discuss the construction of a nuclear power plant, and the files of Adria were extracted from the waste paper container. When the public calmed down and was no longer so afraid of that price of electricity because the football championship started, then it was said that we didn't really mean to build a nuke. And who are we serious about from these 10 remaining and when? Why do I mention these facilities and facilities and the necessary magawate? Because precisely in the amount of our own resources, in the amount of electricity produced in Croatia, we can also discuss sovereignty, but also control the price of energy in Croatia. Because if we are not going to produce new capacities, we will be even more dependent on electricity imports, and the largest importer in a year or so will be Kosovo because of the huge investment of the intellectuals in the area, so that instead of power plants in Croatia we will buy electricity from international organisations and investors from Kosovo. And this irresponsibility against energy policy and the production facilities of a single energy such as electricity shows that we are not doing long-term thinking but in the short term when we are jumped by the wildness of prices from the European or world market, we are trying to patch up, patch up and calm down the public. Therefore, it will not be possible to affect further price developments, nor will it guarantee citizens that new energy price shocks in Croatia will not be, especially where they could produce enough energy from their own capacities such as electricity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13982	Thank you. I have an announcement. The 13th session of the Committee on Economy will be held on Monday (July 14th) at 9:00 in the "Janko Draskovica" 202 hall, which is the second floor, Committee President Dragan Kovacevic. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Yeah. Here you go. Dear Representative Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13983	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I listened carefully to the presentation of the distinguished representative of the government, the finance minister, and I listened to the analyst. I listened to a man explain the reasons why something couldn't be done, but no reason, no solution how to do anything. Very little or nothing about what this interpretation, social problems, the fall of living standards, man. Someone's gonna throw it away now that it's a demagogue, but that's the theme of this interpretation. People's problems. Not the government's problems, not the fiscal problems, not the government's budget constraints. The government's hardenings best illustrate the two news published on the same day, May 14th, this year when they refer to the same issue at a distance of a thousand and a halfkm, the Prime Minister and finance minister. So in Great Trade, the Prime Minister answers the question of what will be done and how the active measures of fiscal and economic policy will address the problems facing the country, which the citizens are facing and the government sees, says, quotes: "We will soon intervene, and most likely it will be in the operating part of the cost and swimming excise duties," he stressed at the end of his statement by the Prime Minister. However, on the same day in Brussels, the Minister of Finance of Croatia spoke about the same theme, and after meeting and talking with a member of the European Commission, Commissioner for Economic and Monetary Affairs Almunio, I cannot say that this is impossible under the European Union directives, this should still be checked, but I do not think it applies anywhere. So it continues, we talked about it with Almunia, and it does not provide any example that a European country is trying to influence oil products prices by potentially reducing excise duties and calculating VAT differently. You cannot use the European Union as a cover once, and you cannot use it as an excuse. And these words testify that they do not understand or want to understand how the European Union works at all and that is not only relevant today but also during the time that is coming. So somewhere, just because a measure isn't applied anywhere doesn't mean it's not allowed. On the contrary, this is exactly the way of interpreting the principle of subsidiarity that the Prime Minister often mentions. Here's an example in practice. The European Union acts where only common measures can achieve the objectives of the common policy and the European market. Where not, that's where the Member States operate. If that's not prohibited, it's allowed. The golden principle of civil and criminal law applicable here. Therefore, it is not prohibited, as well as any other measures that you lightly reject here at this time are not prohibited under the rules of the European Union. Maybe it will be. One example is this announced and more definitive directive proposed by the European Commission and the Commissioner, Commissioner Laszlo Kovacs, which refers to the reduction, the possibility of reduction, therefore not imperative, but the possibility of reducing the value added tax rate for a whole range of products that the European Commission considers relevant to the standard of citizens. Wise enough. We need to look and see what we can get out of it for ourselves. But this example of disparity in the statements of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance is best said to wander, not to know what would be desired. Let's try to get on the right track, let's see what permanent stories of state's success in deficit control are. Well, of course anyone reasonable can't say that a small deficit or surplus is better than a deficit and a major deficit. But that's not the goal, that's the means. I'll draw you a parallel that may be drastic, but you should always keep in mind. Do you know what inflation rates and deficits were during the great economic depression of the '30s? Nothing. There was no inflation, there was no deficit. The finance ministers were the most successful people. However, the problem of 35% unemployment, from economic downturn, stagnation, interruptions in commodity flows and other exchanges. It's not the Secretary of Finance. And that's why we expected more in your address in this House on the subject that is crucial here, that's the standard of people. Well done if it's a deficit, if it's and how much further it's down. That's not bad, but that's not the gentlemen's goal, that's the means. The state exists for the sake of people. You were talking about a zero VAT rate on certain products. We know who introduced her and when. She was introduced by the SDP government. ... It was introduced to some categories of SDP products by the government as well as...... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Gentlemen, these are benches, but they're not trenches. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Do not throw It's not right, is it? [[No, I'm sorry.]] When the vice president didn't want to warn me, I had to say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13984	The vice president has warned and proceed with the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13985	Like other measures, let's say the 2003 award of athletes published in "The People's Newspaper" just so much as enters the record. The attitude of the SDP towards athletes and their contribution to Croatia's reputation in the world. You've got it in the People's Newspaper, gentlemen. It's a message to those who used the media these days to send their messages. So, the financial contract Croatia signed to build highways and the obligation to isolate so much and so much at the price of gasoline, it is possible to change. Financers are not interested in what means to be provided, but to be provided. That's where it came from, that's a question that needs to be answered by a capable government. We haven't heard from him, and we probably won't. So I repeat the European Commission's directive, and you know that the proposals for such directives are not passed overnight and across their knees that they are prior to that, in detail, in line with all the capitals and governments, because they do not want to bring the matter to ruin. The European Union Directive, i.e. the proposal for a Directive of the European Commission, best testifies how the European Union does so. That should be an example, which can be done, so to talk, maybe it's not possible. Perhaps the Croatian budget is overstretched, there may be too much fixed costs, perhaps the country is too decentralised, maybe 10% of the consumption at a local level is twice as much as there is in the European Union, maybe it's time to change it rootly, maybe it's time to be like in Finland, like in Sweden, maybe the war is behind us for years, and the reason for that kind of centralization is gone. They're all dilemmas. Questions, no answers. And all these measures the government has been talking about have resulted, statistics say with a real drop in salary of 0.8% in May. It's a reality. What happens next? Not us. We'll probably ask the Vienna Institute. Any minute now, but Croatia must have a government. Or let's say, the constant need for a completely wrong and incorrect way of methodologically, someone to show us, the idea of introducing a tax on capital gains or dividends. It turns out that all the countries that have it, which are cradles of liberal democracy and economy, are modern political economies that have that tax that don't know what they're doing, that they're unfair, that they're putting impossible burdens on shareholders. Shareholdership is like entrepreneurship, entrepreneurship and kind of risk, the one whose shares fall 40 to 50%, I'm saying this because it was a possible source of income and that tax is present and normal and fair. The one who loses the stock at 50%, he won't pay anything, he'll wait for the stock price to rise. If he sells it, he'll pay his taxes on what he earned. Let's get an analogy with private entrepreneurship. You want to pay back taxes to companies that did business with losses, and a year earlier, they made profits? You won't. The company will continue to operate and will also perform a socially useful function, job creation. Let's not do such comparisons, they're incorrect, that tax exists in a series of the richest and most successful states and is not defended by economic prosperity, and it's not a dam for shareholders, it's what it needs. As for the refinery, one very important thing, I thank you for your contribution to the distinguished representative Lesar, who spoke about the hydrocentrals and energy potential of this kind, again the fact, with all the good wishes and mention of former Deputy Prime Minister Slavko Linic, that this government has done nothing in the 5-year term with the refineries. There's no excuse. I agree they were gold mines, they could be ours. We don't have them. And I am also glad that he cares very much about the employees of the state administration, and especially in his portfolio, and that this will now not try to abuse anyone again as it has tried with athletes, that the SDP does not care how the Croatian State Administration is paid, it is very important and it is important that it is well educated quality, that it is competitive, competitive and that it is worth it. Like Austria so many years ago, like France, like the British, but it's not the only segment that worries us, we can't Czechy look at these things. Croatia exists outside the state administration, it is all Croatia and there live people who go on bicycle jobs, as counterpart Friscic says or do not go to work. All in all, respected colleagues, I call once again on this esteemed House to realize that these measures we propose and the conclusions we propose are not any escibation or political whim, but necessity. This is a clear picture of where we are going, the measures we want to achieve, and the measures are neither a budget deficit, it is a means to manage the desired goal. The same goes for the European Union. Let us take what is good and let us not get away with making excuses that we cannot do something, because it is not given by the European Union, because examples do not show that it is not true. At the end of the line on this European Union, unfortunately, because of objective but mainly subjective problems and weaknesses, we will wait another year. Well, when we go in for something, we can get a transitional period, and we can't do something, but there can't be an excuse that something is banned today when we're not members of the European Union. That can't be an excuse. Air-conditioning excise duties and to say that this is forbidden because the European Commissioner did not see that being used anywhere. That just means it's not forbidden, etc. It's the logic of European law, he didn't tell you that it's forbidden, and you decide, you run the government, you have to find space of funds and money. We're proposing a framework, you know the details. Dear colleagues and colleagues, once again I call for the adoption of this conclusion proposal and although I do not have too many illusions, I am glad that we have at least exchanged opinions on this. We'll see what the vote says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13986	Thank you. Does a government official want to take a word for it? Yeah. Dear Ivan Shuker Minister of Finance in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13987	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. As Mr. Milanovic said from my speech, he didn't see how he would get rid of it, so I didn't see what they wanted with his speech. However, to you, Mr Milanovic, for information, given that taxes are not your topic. Zero VAT rate, Mr. Borislav Škegro Minister of Finance, 99th year, bread, milk and other supplies. The SDP only completed that decision. That's one thing. The other thing, Mr. Milanovic, I have so much legal and economic knowledge that I have never said this is elemental. ... That's when there's no arguments. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you very much. Bye.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13988	Okay. Set up the ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13989	Excuse me. Mr. Milanovic, I didn't think it was personal but you would also react if you were here. ... Mrs. Anticevic, this is my house. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13990	No throwing each other away. We're going to have a discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13991	I don't know what right this isn't the minister's house. Well, the minister has been elected by these representatives and this is the House of Ministers, Mrs Anticevic, who advocates a known right. But good.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13992	Minister, here's the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13993	Mr. Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13994	Sime, so do you? Come on, please nice. Let's keep going. ... Please, the minister will continue the debate. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Give him a chance and please refrain. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13995	Look, I'm also sorry that SDP colleagues do not know that floating excise duties in Croatia exist for a year and three, four months. If I am not mistaken, this House has made a decision by amending the Law on Special Taxes that the Government can change the level of excise duties by its regulation or by translated dear gentlemen, these are the floating excise duties. If it's not let me prove it's the opposite. Secondly, I have never said that either the Commissioner of the European Union or the European Union prohibits the reduction of excise duties. But I said something else, something else that supports Croatian citizens, which is that one of the most indisputable measures is the reduction of linear excise duty. And why is that? If you say 20 or 30, or 50 lips reduce excise duty to diesel then someone comes with a yacht of 3.4 million, in addition 2.5, 3,000 diesels that average Croat not the poor but the average one can't spend for a year. Therefore, cutting excise duties would benefit who? The rich. But let's just ignore it. In moments when prices and price increases far exceed excise fees it's just throwing money out of the budget without effect. But look, it's very interesting. The government has allocated 600 million. With 440 million in 2007, the government encouraged meat producers and dairy producers 280 and 160 million in removal of the effects of drought. It was one of the encouraging measures not to increase food prices. Unfortunately, however, what happened happened. The clearance debt of 130 million was directly invested in energy capacities, so one hydropower plant and one gas pipeline to reach the Hungarian-Croatian border. 300 million continued support on behalf of the blue diesel is not charged with excise duties, and now that what the esteemed Vice-President of Parliament Friscic said is subsidising the price of blue diesel to 5 kunas to all farmers and fishermen, that is an additional 70, 80 million kuna. The third thing, increasing the base from 400 to 500 kuna is the cost of about 400 million kuna a year. So these are the measures. To say that the European Union has made its own directives a decision to reduce VAT rates is simply not true. President Sarkozy spoke a month ago about tax cuts in France, so as I can see in France, no excise duties have been reduced. But I repeat, Croatia on the most important food products are bread and milk already has a zero VAT rate. Croatia if we ignore these kunas and 20 for highways has the lowest excise duty. And it is not true what Mr Milanovic said would only easily change these 60 June in internationally signed contracts. If we wanted to change that contract then we would have to rebalance the budget and say in that position a billion 600 or a billion 700 for Croatian highways and Croatian roads, it is all expensive somewhere around 3 billion kuna and these are the money. Now, gentlemen, what resources do you get these 3 billion kunas from? The capital gains tax certainly doesn't. It means an increase in some taxes. That's when we talk about excise duties. Well, when we get to the VAT phase, then we're all talking about reducing VAT rates. All right, let's cut it down. But tell me what and how much it costs. And then, at the end of the day, tell the Croatian citizens, gentlemen of the state this year, they're going to have to owe 5 billion kuna more to cover this all together at an interest rate that is over 6% because unfortunately, this situation is on the financial market, and that's 300 million dollars a year for you next ten years more interest or nearly 3 billion kuna. That's it, that's what people need to know. Why hide behind what's true? Speaking of how much real wages have grown. True, inflation was not great from 2000 to 2004. She was somewhere from two, three to three percent, and the pay didn't grow anything. Then real wages fell 3%. ... By your math. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And now wages rise 6%, inflation is somewhere around 6%, and now someone's talking about real growth or real... Pay. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But that's just a few answers to what Mr. Milanovic was saying. This government has clear and concrete measures. This interpretation is without any concrete measure but clearly tells Croatian citizens that the SDP came to power would pay higher taxes and have a higher deficit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13996	Thank you. One correction to an incorrect quote by the esteemed representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13997	Well, in a minute, as far as I can make it right. It's incorrect that we don't know that there's a law on floating excise duties and that's what we're proposing. Our first conclusion refers to the use of the possibility given by the swimming excise law, not to do so only once as the Government did so after the law was passed and before the elections. And as for wages, they grew 7% real annually in that period, and now here in the last month is 0.8%, and that decline has already been continued for 5.6 months.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13998	Thank you. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when we get the necessary conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u13999	20. Interpletion on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the field of energy supply and their prices and impact on the economy and the standard of living of citizens. Transporters: members of the SDP Representatives Club. The debate is closed. The government proposed to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion: Interpelation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the field of energy supply and their prices and impact on the economy and standard of living. I'm voting on the government's conclusion. Please, let's get involved and vote. You got it. The result? This conclusion of the government was accepted by, the government's proposal for a conclusion was accepted by 79 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 46 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14000	Moving to point 17. - Interpletion on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in connection with the role of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the process of rehabilitation and restructuring of the Croatian shipbuilding industry Carriers: members of the SDP Representatives of the Croatian Parliament pursuant to Article 190. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament submitted this interpretation. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. Do the proposing representatives want to show themselves about the proposal? Yeah. Dear Representative Ljubo Jurcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14001	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Vice-President of the Croatian Government, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. The SDP club gave an interpretation of the role of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the process of rehabilitating and restructureing Croatia's shipbuilding industry. As we know, Croatian shipbuilding has a long and largely successful history. Today, it's ahead of the most uncertain period. All the accumulated problems that have resulted in the huge losses of the shipyard have reached its peak today. The feeling of uncertainty is strengthened, among other things, because of Croatia's proximity to the European Union, or full membership in the European Union, or because of the necessary adjustments that Croatia needs to make in this approximation and full membership. The requirements of the European Union are not small and are significant and can be said about shipbuilding. The shipbuilding story is related to two chapters in negotiations with the European Union. The first chapter is about freedom of competition and the state aid status that the Croatian state gives to Croatian shipbuilders. The second chapter deals with industrial policy and the necessity to adapt Croatian shipbuilding in the coming years to the efficiency and efficiency criteria that exist today on the single European market. This interpretation is further encouraged by the Government of the Republic of Croatia's decision of 21 May 2008 on the purpose of privatisation and the principles of privatisation of 5 of our largest shipyards. We believe that such decisions have far-reaching consequences for the survival and future of Croatian shipbuilding and therefore in connection with the preservation of a large number of direct and indirect jobs related to the sector and then the overall social consequences that are at the heart of the Croatian public's interest. Given the expected far-reaching consequences of such a decision, and given the numerous concerns about the reasons and arguments that would lead the government directly at the moment, we are fully convinced that it is necessary to open a debate before the Croatian Parliament on the entire government's policy on the future of Croatian shipbuilding. We are all witnessing negative privatisation results from the 1990s when unstructured and privatised unprepared companies are privatised. The result, as we know, was over 400 thousand unemployed, a drop in domestic production, a drop in exports, an increase in imports, an increase in external debt. The aim of the restructuring is to preserve social interest, i.e. to increase the social benefits, i.e. that companies that intend to privatise themselves are brought into such a position that the social benefits of privatisation are greater than the social costs or damages that such privatisation can do. Private interests are legitimate and legal, but they must not be achieved at the expense of social interests. It is also important to say that the whole process for restructuring plans and negotiations with the European Union has taken place over the past few years with a veil of secrets. There is very little information in the public, and it is similar with informing the highest Croatian institutions such as the Croatian Parliament and that is one of the reasons why we have submitted this interpretation. About the importance of Croatian shipbuilding, we all have an opinion. I'm gonna take this opportunity to get some data. The main objective of each economic activity is to increase gross domestic product and Croatian shipbuilding in the gross domestic product is around 1%, sometimes less 0.9 and sometimes 1.4%. And that increase in gross domestic product would solve all these problems that we talked about in the previous interpretation. Shipbuilding in 2007 exported 22 ships, large Croatian shipbuilding, total value somewhere around $760m, which significantly improved the major deficit in the foreign trade balance, which is also one of the major problems of Croatian economic policy. Shipyards directly employ about 12,000 employees and additionally with 5 thousand cooperative workers who are constantly employed in the shipyard account for some 17,000 employees while 1500 manufacturers and suppliers of various products and services employ another 26 thousand people, totalling about 40,000 employees, people related to shipbuilding activities or the shipbuilding industry. This fact results in high multiplier effects on other sectors and other activities in the Croatian economy. Thus, the last or the last analyses that were made came to a multiplier coefficient of 2.83, which means 100 million shipments of the shipbuilding industry resulting in total production in the Croatian economy of about $283 million. Let's say this one in 2007, if it was $2.73, $760 million. So total production in Croatia resulted in total production in Croatia of about two billion and 150 million dollars. As part of production workers in the Republic of Croatia in shipbuilding, around 8% of employees are being shipbuilding. Share of shipbuilding in net wages 1.8. Directly about 5% when these multipliers are taken to other domestic sectors. The contribution rate is 2% with a multiplier of about 5.6%. The share of domestic components in the ship, domestic material, services and work in the total cost of construction, I say the total cost of construction of the ship ranges between 60% and 65% of cost. And at the end of all this data we all know very well that the very high importance of shipbuilding for the regional economy is because this, five of these large shipyards are located in the coast of Croatia. Now, why are we in favour of preserving shipbuilding and quality restructuring, etc.? What is the power of Croatian shipbuilding? The power of Croatian shipbuilding among other things is reflected in the following facts. The ship is the largest mobile facility a man can make, and Croatia belongs to a small number of countries that can do it and that is one of our advantages. The ship is an object that should function in the most aggressive atmosphere, and Croatia belongs to a small number of countries that can do so. The ship is a product in which high technology should be used and Croatia belongs to a small number of countries that know how to use them. The ship belongs to a group of most complex products to be designed and constructed, manufactured, etc., and Croatia belongs to a small number of countries that know it. It is often said of Croatia that we should bring in the automotive industry as some transition countries did. But in these transition countries these cars are not manufactured, they are mounted, they are not designed, they are only mounted there, and people in these installation halls are sometimes less paid than our textile workers in the construction work in Croatia. And here we have an industry that has actually no idea what it means. That we can construct one object that is very complex, which has over 100,000 components and that we can construct and design and put it into one whole, while the car has about 20 to 30 thousand parts. The only more complex product than the ship is a plane that has over six million parts somewhere, but we're still a long way from that. And why not preserve now such an industry whose complexity actually creates opportunities to create greater added value in that production because the higher added value, or gross domestic product, is the result of the complexity of the products being produced. Simple products do not have high added value, and as the product is increasingly lagging, thus increasing added value on that product. The Croatian ship is a brand on the world market, it is one of the few Croatian brands, and how much to invest in creating a brand, money, time, people, education, how many risks we have in the Croatian ship. In the last 25 years, 22 Croatian ships have been declared a world ship of the year in their class. Croatia's shipbuilding has been able to keep a significant share of the world market on a continuous basis, on average 1%, more, less, sometimes up to even 2%, depending on the conukture on the world market and orders, find another product where Croatia has such a share on the world market. In addition, the book orders Croatian shipyards according to the available data covers the next 3 years, practically by the end of 2010, perhaps already there is a contract for 2011, and there are few jobs or products that Croatia can arrange for such secure contracts for the next period. The value of those fifty ships that were arranged for the next two, three years seems to me to be over $3 billion by some estimates. In the shipbuilding building a new hall, this all that has made the Croatian boat a Croatian brand and the development of long-term connections with the scientific and educational community is an extremely valuable segment that guarantees that even in the future the shipbuilding has good prospects. Global market circumstances contribute to the survival of Croatian shipbuilding. The demand for ships is growing because of globalisation, produced in one part of the world, sold on another part of the world, material goes, goods go, demand for ships is growing, so that it can be expected that, with smaller or greater oscillations, mostly growth trends will continue to occur. Shipbuilding can therefore be planned much better than many other activities. In addition, in addition to all the good things for which Croatian shipbuilding should be held and invested, there are also problems that need to be addressed. The problems that are seen in order of Croatian shipbuilding are mostly financial, when we talk about Croatian shipbuilding, we see immediately at first sight the losses that Croatian shipbuilding has produced, so by our assessment or by my assessment the accumulated and contracted losses in Croatian shipbuilding have passed 9 billion kuna, and you 9 billion kuna when compared to gross domestic product, in Croatia it is about 3%. The current source of approved state guarantees for loans is, it seems to me at some level over 12 billion kunas of which 11 billion kunas have already been used, etc. The problem of Croatian shipbuilding is other than financial and economic. Small efficiency, labour productivity and capital are inadequately used, resulting in all negative indicators in business. Technologically too, outdated equipment and business organization. Also marketing, it is difficult to contract more complex ships with higher value added and higher price, it is difficult to negotiate domestic equipment and encourage domestic producers to make better quality production and attract new manufacturers into the production of equipment for Croatian products. Furthermore, there are organisational problems and management of the shipbuilding process. Cost and loss management is pretty bad. No matter what we say, we have people who know how to produce ships, who have experience in education and human policy over the past 10 years have not exactly shown themselves in order to preserve Croatian shipbuilding. This could be the main sources of inefficiency. The logical path towards the recovery of Croatian shipbuilding would be to fully restructure in the function of removing all present sources of inefficiencies and incompetence in order to prepare the shipyards for successful business under the applicable rules of competition in the single European market. Regardless of who will be the holders of the restructuring, the state as the majority owner or private investors, the restructuring plan must be sustainable. We would also like to point out another concern and ask for the government's answer. What are the expectations regarding the position of today's numerous domestic shipping equipment suppliers and various services in the event of privatisation by foreign private investors? It is logical to expect new owners to prefer or prefer their partners in already established supply chains, which can significantly change the structure of suppliers to the detriment of Croatian domestic entrepreneurs. Also, whether the Government has a solution that will protect domestic entrepreneurs or support them in ensuring a more favourable competitive position than so-called. Euro shipbuilding outsourcing. In view of all of the above, we propose to the Croatian Parliament to draw the following conclusions after the debate has been concluded. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is tasked with delivering to the Croatian Assembly the debate and acceptance of the entire restructuring programme of Croatian shipbuilding, individual programmes for the restructuring of Croatian shipyards with timetables, financial restructuring plan and insurance and financing of the current operation of the shipyard in the coming period. The draft on the reasons and conditions for the re-use of activity in existing shipyards, the adjustment programme for state support to the shipbuilding sector, the programme for the disposal of any excess labour force as a consequence of the restructuring of the shipbuilding sector, the land and real estate resolution programme that are now in the function of carrying out shipbuilding activities and the programme to promote the development of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship directly linked to the shipbuilding sector. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14002	Thank you. Does the Government's representative want to further explain his report? Yeah. Dear Damir Polancec, vice president of the Croatian government, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14003	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. It is quite clear, and I must say at first that I will, to the greatest extent possible, agree with many of the things Mr. Jurcic has said today. The fact is that the undisputed importance of Croatian shipbuilding for the total national Croatian economy is the fact that it is the key objective of all the measures we take, which we are trying to implement and implement in fact the preservation of the Croatian shipbuilding industry. But what we're different about is probably the way we do it. Let me also point out once again the extremely high and important importance of Croatian shipbuilding for as I said to the Croatian national economy. It's manifested through numbers, and it's best to show it like that. The Croatian shipbuilding industry currently participates in Croatia's total exports with about 15%, with 1.4% in the total gross social product. The Croatian shipbuilding industry is currently taking place somewhere between 8th and 10th on the shipbuilding scale, world shipbuilding with a market share of 0.63% over the past year. This speaks enough about the importance of Croatian shipbuilding on the world market. However, the importance of Croatian shipbuilding for the Croatian national economy is seen among other things and through the number of directly employed persons participating in the shipbuilding industry. Eleven thousand 400 people at this point are employed in five of our largest yards, so shipyards. This should be added to about 6.5 and up to 7,000 people who work in companies, who are cooperative of these five largest shipyards and who do their work directly, therefore, in each individual trafficking. A total of 1800 small and medium-sized enterprises that are suppliers of the shipbuilding industry are responsible for an additional 20,000 people. So we're talking about some 40,000 people who depend on the fate of the Croatian shipbuilding industry that we need to take care of. At this point, I have to say that the books of Croatian shipyards are filled, completed at the end of 2010 and that there are already many contracted ships to be delivered in 2011. In the last year, a total of $742m worth of ships were delivered and the book of orders is full, full when we talk about the financial meaning, so 3 billion 150m worth of dollars was agreed which, of course, means a lot, and for so many times already mentioned today, the current account of Croatia's balance of payments. What makes me extremely happy, I am pleased that the Croatian component therefore, in total, delivered, in the value of total delivered ships, is growing and approaching the numbers of 65%. Despite all this data, however, and despite the fact that the demand for ships is growing at this point. Despite the fact that every day individual ordermakers visit our shipyards, negotiate and negotiate new deliveries, new ships from Croatian ports, Croatian shipyards, the fact is that it is one of the most unsuccessful economic branches in the Republic of Croatia when we talk about the final result, so, the result, the financial result of the business and the economic branch. Only in last year is the accumulated, consolidated loss, so all five largest Croatian shipyards amount to a billion and 80 million kunas, which is a fact and we cannot escape from that fact. Yes, I am as proud as we all must be proud that Croatia is a country where indeed one of the few countries in which even one such sophisticated product can be produced. Yes, the fact is that few of what economic branches we can be at world level as relevant players as we can be in shipbuilding and in few of the world's economic branches we have the possibility of being on the world market, therefore, even recorded with a relevant percentage such as the percentage that speaks of the market participation of Croatian shipbuilding on the world shipbuilding market. But it is also a fact that there is not one year since Croatian independence until today when Croatian shipyards have been doing positive business, and the fact is that the result, i.e. the loss of billions and 80 million kuna, was produced in spite of the fact that in the last year, the Croatian shipbuilding industry has significantly participated in the total support that the Croatian Government has granted to individual, individual industries. 379 million kunas are direct support from the state budget to the shipbuilding industry. This should be added to a whole series of guarantees that have been granted for loans, which the shipyards have raised. So despite the fact that at this point we have over 12 billion kuna guarantees to the shipbuilding industry. Realized loans under these guarantees are over $11 billion. Despite the fact that only in last year's direct support, the subsidy to the industry was at the level of 380 million kuna. The result of all this is at $740 million of exports or total realisation, total realisation, not exports, is a loss of billions and 80 million kuna. This is enough reason why we are talking today about the necessity of drawing a line, about the necessity of real step-up in the process of restructuring and rehabilitating Croatian shipbuilding. Many years back we have been talking about restructuring Croatian shipbuilding, but I must say that never until Croatian independence until today, the right to restructure Croatian shipbuilding has not been implemented. There have been some moves that have gone for this purpose, but a comprehensive, competent right to restructure Croatian shipbuilding has never been made. And there is no need to politicise when we talk about shipbuilding because its importance for Croatian economics is too great. The number of 40,000 employees in Croatia who work directly or indirectly and are tied to the shipbuilding industry is significant, and these people do not deserve to be politicised about their fates, but to really discuss in an open way the only real and correct way with numbers and arguments, which is the right way and the way to finally implement this shipbuilding on the right path, restructures. And when we talk about restructuring what do we do? We need to put ourselves in a position that Croatian shipyards of course do all business, that they can be positive or that they can do positive business, make profitable business with the same forms and the same level of subsidies as is appropriate in the countries of the European Union, and here we now come to a key element. Therefore, the subsidisation models of Croatian shipbuilding are not adequate and are not harmonised with the principles and methods of subsidising shipbuilding in the countries of the European Union and this level of subsidy in Croatia is too high. We must therefore be aware of what is appropriate and what works in the countries of the European Union and allow Croatian shipyards to operate positively within these frameworks. Is that possible? I'm sure it is. I am convinced that it is, and I am convinced that this is exactly what we will do through the implementation of individual programmes of rehabilitation and restructuring, where the privatisation that I will talk about later is just a means on the way to the final goal. Now that we've taken care of it so far? Like I said, shipbuilding doesn't deserve to be overly politicized, but we're all late. The right to restructuring and rehabilitation of Croatian shipbuilding was due to take place in the mid-90s. Since then, we have not all done enough together for Croatian shipbuilding and restructuring of Croatian shipbuilding. By signing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, we have adopted certain rules of the game. These rules of the game have driven us, among other things, in the direction that within four years of the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Treaty, so we redefine the incentive system for Croatian shipbuilding, harmonize it with the acquis and with the best practice of the European Union and implement the rehabilitation and restructuring programmes. We've developed individual rehabilitation and restructuring programs. So, in the 2nd month of 2007 they were created and directed to the European Commission and parallel to the Competition Protection Agency to get comments from them. So it was the 2nd month of 2007. During the July and August of 2007, the European Commission had previously hired its consultants, its advisers, the Ekost company, which, together with the Competition Protection Agency, visited each shipbuilding site for representatives of the government's commission, asked for additional information, gave its suggestions and comments on individual programmes of rehabilitation and restructuring. However, the indication of neither "Ekstrata" nor the European Commission, but neither the Competition Protection Agency in writing with clear guidance, suggestions and suggestions in which our individual plans should be improved, we did not receive such comments in writing until 2 months 2008 when we received them from the Competition Protection Agency, which is also referred to the suggestions of "Ekista" as an authorised consultant of the European Commission. As soon as we've come up with these suggestions, suggestions, we've come up with individual plans, and I want to say no matter what they're criticizing for criticism, that individual plans are clearly improved. These individual plans were then drafted in the draft, so presented to the European Commission and I personally participated in technical consultations and talks with... Commissioner, Neelie Kroes, therefore, is the leading person in the field of competition in the European Commission with whom I have therefore sought to discuss the individual plans and individual dilemmas and different views and opinions with regard to which we have had. The fact is that we do not have another situation, which is that before Croatia was restructured and restructured its shipbuilding industry, other countries were primarily Italy and lately Poland and the fact that restructuring plans in those countries were not implemented in accordance with, or that restructuring was not under way according to what was written in the recovery and restructuring plans. That is why the European Commission has given clear guidance to us, that is to say, the Commissioner of the European Commission himself, that the European Commission will particularly appreciate if private capital participates in the process of rehabilitation and restructuring of all Croatian shipyards in the first phase. So not only in technological renewal, not only through possible recapitalisation but in the first stage. It is precisely because of these suggestions and clear proposals that we have further developed individual plans and proposed as a resolute ministry for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to decide on the initiation of a privatisation procedure for three of these five major shipbuilding sites to launch the privatisation process in the daughter of Brodosplita, which is called the shipyard of special facilities or a shortened BSO with the aim of implementing the privatisation of these companies until the end of the first quarter of 2009. After that, I must say that, of course, we have had live communication with the European Commission, that there will be technical consultations with them in the coming week, and I must already tell you and the Croatian public very clearly that the European Commission's suggestion is actually going to be that, even in the first phase, the preparation for privatisation will be launched both on May 3rd and "Brodosplita". I note once again, precisely because of the fact that some other countries have implemented plans, developed individual restructuring and resolution plans and implemented these individual plans and were not sufficiently successful, Croatia is today in a specific position and is required from Croatia to participate in the process of recovery and restructuring in private capital, i.e. to implement the process of recovery and restructuring through privatisation. Should we fear such a process and such practice? I don't think so. I am just sure that no, not to think, but I am sure that no, and the argument for it lies between us and the fact that we are such a process together with the European Commission and we have done it. It is a process of rehabilitation and restructuring primarily of Croatian iron and TLMs. Don't forget that a year and a half ago in this House, we held a debate between the rest and the fate of Croatian ironists. Then we decided on the process of recovery and restructuring through privatisation and, as a result, what was the result. The result is that we have spent privatisation, yes, we have reduced the number of employees in both TLM and Valyanica tube Sisak to a measure that was acceptable to potential investors, and later to the strategic partners of these companies, that we have done so without social earthquakes and the fact is that today we have provided these companies with an absolutely respectable level of investment. I remind you that we have provided TLM 107m euros in the next three years and that we have also provided the Sisak and Željezari pipes of Split with hundreds of millions of direct investments in raising the technology level that will definitely result in a short period of time by requiring new employment in these companies and that the figure from the employees before the restructuring process will not only reach it, but I am convinced and overcoming it. This is the way to implement the rehabilitation and restructuring of Croatian shipbuilding, and there we can agree on everything else and can sign a large majority, almost everything you said, but we believe that the best way to implement restructuring in Croatian shipbuilding is through privatisation. However, it will not be easy and easy to define a privatisation tender, among other things because of some more of the accumulated problems that you have not stated in your lab or in your interpretation, you may not have covered well enough. Well, I'll just mention some. The fact is that our shipyards are burdened with the problem of maritime goods. What does the problem of maritime good mean? And at the moment the shipyards moved into the process of conversion in force were positive legal regulations that defined maritime well as a thing outside of traffic, so as something that couldn't be alienated, as something that couldn't become private property. Despite this fact through the conversion of maritime well-being, I'm talking about land and all the properties built on marine goods, they're being introduced into the basic capital of our shipyards, and that's one huge strategic mistake. What did that have to do with anything? The consequence is that, for example, Oil and Brodosplit and land, so maritime well-being and all marine-good properties are built today in the core capital of society. The fact is that in the Kingdom and land and real estate were in the core capital of the company, they were registered to be subsequently registered, but as investments in... The fact is that in the other two shipyards the land is not in the core capital, and the real estate is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the fact is that there is a legal and legal void in which today we write off the maritime good from the core capital of each of these societies. And it takes a lot of brains, skills, professions, to find the right way. I believe that we have found the right way and that through the fall we will come between ourselves and with a proposal in front of this High House to give us support on how to do this process, how to write down the maritime good from the core capital, so that we can access the privatisation process at all. On the other hand, I have to say there's another fact, another big one, so I dare say the injustice we need to correct. In 2002, when a partial rehabilitation of the shipbuilding industry was carried out, in return for the fact that the Croatian government took over part of the obligations of each shipbuilding site, some shipbuilding sites by the government's decision, so not the Parliament, but the government's assets. And the fact is that the value of this property was 115 million marks, then German marks, of which 99 million kuna was the value of only one shipyard and that Shipyard "3 May". It is our opinion and attitude, and my personal and people who have worked on the process of rehabilitation and restructuring, that we need that property and return it so that it can be subject to capitalisation and re-entering the normal system and normal functioning. So we can talk about directions, but the positive experience that we have primarily in privatisation and recovery, the restructuring of the aluminium industry, the steel industry gives us the right when we claim that the best way to restructure is through privatisation. The second thing is the fact that we are bound by the European Commission is not satisfied that the process of recovery and restructuring has been implemented by some other countries that I have already mentioned in my speech. And third thing, very important. Dear ladies and gentlemen, is it the state that needs to carry out the process of recovery and restructuring, or does it really have to do private capital? Here's a few more numbers. From 1.1.2002 to 31.12.2007, the total state guarantees granted to the shipbuilding industry are 22 and a half billion kuna. Today, the living state guarantees are granted 12 and a half billion kuna, out of which realised loans of nine and a half billion kuna. For the period ahead of us for contracted ships, therefore for financing the construction of already contracted ships from 2008 to 2012 additional 4.8 billion kuna guarantees. To finance the construction of planned and unarranged ships for the period from 2008 to 2012, so ships that are still negotiating an additional 16.3 billion kuna. Or, from today to the end of 2012, if we do not implement privatisation, it will be necessary to issue state guarantees of 22 and a half billion kuna, which I believe is absolutely too much and I believe that the same effects can be achieved in another way. On the other hand, that's not all. That's not all, because I don't want to talk about the process of recovery and restructuring as some kind of hidden procedure or procedure that we're dealing with, so I'm going to do some more figures. In order to implement recovery and restructuring, to be carried out by the state, the State or the Ministry of Finance of the existing obligations of all five shipyards on itself over the next 4 years should assume the repayment of the loan of 8.9 billion kuna. Direct support so if we continue to subsidize each ship a billion and 200 million kuna. These are numbers that speak for themselves enough. Instead, we believe that the privatisation process should be implemented on the principles contained in the government's decision. What are these principles? These principles speak as follows. That we should enable a strategic partner to assess the level of obligations for each individual shipbuilding site is ready to take over, and which obligations each of these companies should therefore settle in the future period of the state. On the other hand, when the privatisation process is over, the subsidisation of shipbuilding by current models and principles has also ended. Of course it is our obligation and it is one of your conclusions and suggestions that we also develop a programme to encourage Croatian shipbuilding in line with the standards and standards of the European Union and we do so. And we, for the stake of privatisation, will be very prepared and therefore have the incentive system fully in line with what the European Union is looking for. But we also think because of Croatian citizens, because of the state budget, because of Croatian citizens' money, it is best and most efficient to implement restructuring and rehabilitation through privatisation. In doing so, the sacred goal is to keep as many jobs as possible, preferably all of them. To keep as much ship production as possible in each shipbuilding site as possible, but we are allowing some investor to assess that at some location where today the shipbuilding industry will launch some other activity, tourism, some other production, provided that it employs all employees and, then, no longer expects support from the state budget. We think it's right, we think it's right. We also allow the possibility of changing the production range. What does a change in the production range mean? Well, that means if someone's working ships for the merchant navy today, and tomorrow at that location he'll produce or make a suggestion that he's producing mega yachts, and that's what we intend to do today, I don't think that's bad, but, by the way, that's making it easier for us. Because let us not forget the process of recovery and restructuring without privatisation must be implemented according to the European Commission guidelines, which, among other things, talk about the following. They say that the own contribution of each individual company, each individual entrepreneur in difficulty, should be 50% of the total cost of recovery and restructuring. Unfortunately, none of our shipyards can provide their own contribution to the cost of recovery and restructuring at 50%. And the second thing, because of the fact that our shipyards have been operating and functioning for many years, and competitors are on the market with subsidies that are more than in other countries, is the fact that certain compensatory measures are being asked of us. Compensation measures, above all, in capacity above all, in the number of jobs and we must ensure these compensatory measures. A change in the activity or change in the production range in such a way that a shipyard will no longer produce merchant Navy ships, but may produce mega yachts, means, among other things, compensation measures and rescue remaining shipyards. That is why we have put these principles into and built into the government's decision. And finally, we will not privatise all the portfolio we have, we leave 25% in each shipyard, until the moment the privatisation is completed, followed by the sale of these shares to employees under more favourable conditions and trust me not only to be convinced that the successful implementation of the restructuring restructuring through privatisation, but I am convinced that after that process Croatia will be an even stronger and more significant player on the market in the international shipbuilding market and I am convinced that the value of those shares that will be offered to workers after that process will be far greater. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14004	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the club, the first is a respected representative on behalf of the HDZ Club, the distinguished representative Vesna Buterin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14005	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Vice-President of the Republic of Croatia, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community Club rejects the interpretation of the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia regarding the role of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the process of rehabilitating and restructureing Croatian shipbuilding submitted by SDP to the president of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 03 June 2008. Croatia's shipbuilding is definitely a strategic branch of the Croatian industry, as it binds to itself a large part of the accompanying industry, allows the business of many companies involved in the production of ship's equipment, and since the construction of ships requires a high technological level, it is also a driver for the promotion of industrial and technological development. Shipbuilding has great importance for the Croatian economy, and in addition, the fact that 11,000 workers are employed in 5 major Croatian shipyards. In addition, shipyards provide employment for about 5 to 7.5 thousand cooperatives, and during the delivery of equipment and materials to shipbuilding there are 18 thousand companies with around 20,000 employees. The share of the shipbuilding industry in the gross domestic product is around 1.45 and in exports about 15%. Croatia's shipbuilding faces losses and difficulties in business and without implementing restructuring, it will not be sustainable in the long term. Some of the main reasons for such a state of shipbuilding are the consequences of war destruction, a large increase in steel prices, and a decline in the rate of dollars. The last two caused disorders not only in Croatian shipbuilding but also in most of the world's shipyards. The decline in the value of dollars towards the euro and kuna at the time when contracts on the construction of ships were concluded exclusively in dollars had far-reaching negative consequences. The loss business has disabled the provision of liquid funds to finance production leading to a delay in the technological process, an increase in production costs and even a question of compliance with the contractual commitments undertaken. This situation has just pointed out the need to restructure the shipbuilding sector, so the government has established a Committee for the Development of the National Programme for the Reconstruction of Croatian Shipbuilding, which adopted strategic guidelines for further development of Croatian shipbuilding in 2006. At the same time, shipyards were in charge of the development of individual restructuring programmes that envisioned the separation from the shipyard and the privatisation of all accompanying activities not directly related to the construction of the ship. These programmes aim at increasing competitiveness in the world market, adapting the aortics of which the Deputy Prime Minister spoke earlier, based on building more complex types of ships, then streamlining business, increasing productivity and reducing production costs, in order to achieve long-term business sustainability on the world market under operating conditions that will also apply in the European Union. The European Commission proposes to launch a privatisation process for all six shipyards, however, the government of the Republic of Croatia has made a decision that will take place in two stages. The first phase will privatise four shipyards, which are "Uljanik", "Kraljevica", "Brodotrogir" and Shipyard of special facilities, and after the first phase, access to privatisation will remain for all shipyards, which are "Brodosplit" and "3 May". The decision on the purpose of privatisation does not mean that the government gives up restructuring of the shipyard but that restructuring will be carried out in agreement with the strategic partner. The conditions of privatisation will respect the principles defined by the Government and some of them are the development of an investment plan and a business plan by investors, giving the option to the strategic partner to assess and propose which part of the obligation to the creditors is prepared to take, adapt production programmes to market requirements, etc. Prior to the privatisation itself, the problem of maritime goods used by the shipyard should also be addressed and registered from the company's capital since it was introduced into the company's core capital. So we have a case that in "Olinik" and "Rodosplite" and land and real estate were introduced into basic capital while only real estate was introduced into "May 3rd" and "Brodotrogir" in basic capital. I must really stress here a very important fact which is that the shipyard "3 May" has been further damaged by the Government of the Republic of Croatia's decision of 21 September 2000 on the takeover of property of certain legal persons whose shipyard "3 May" was taken away by a large part of the property of the total value of about 100 million German marks at that time. For example, there have been some illogical situations where the shipyard has to borrow from the new owner and pay the rent for the properties that were in its possession until then. The shipyard "May 3rd" plays a key role in the economy of the Primorje-Gorski County and the city of Rijeka since there are around 2 000 900 workers and about a thousand and a half cooperative workers representing about 4% of the total staff in the Primorje-Gorski County. In accordance with the "May 3rd" guidelines, an individual restructuring programme will be developed and will be restructured according to the Government's restructuring plan, which includes measures to restructure ownership and organisational structure, resuscitation of losses and recovery of core capital, then resolving property status and redefining maritime goods. These measures are a prerequisite for changes in the production programme and changes in the internal structure in the field of shipbuilding activities covering production, organisational and personnel procedures. All these activities will be carried out during this year and for the next three years with the aim of establishing the business success of "3 May" fully achieved in 2012 when some of the following objectives were achieved, primarily the annual revenue of 300m euros, delivery of four to six ships annually, production of between 120 thousand and 150 thousand CGP, production of 60 thousand tonnes of steel annually, total staff of 1,000, number of co-operatives a thousand 100, income per employee of 150 thousand euros per year, and the average wage of employees should be higher than the average salary in the Republic of Croatia. The restructuring of shipbuilding is a big job that the Government of the Republic of Croatia must do. However, this government has indeed shown that it knows how to deal with a burning problem and how problems should be solved. She showed this on the example of "Viktor Lenca", which has been a major problem for years not only for the Primorje-Goran County but also for all of Croatia. The rehabilitation programme conducted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia allowed this Croatian shipyard to continue to promote Croatian shipbuilding in the world with more than 110 years of tradition and no single worker would end up on the street at the same time. In June of this year, the government paid 13.5 million kuna to the current accounts of workers of the River Remont Shipyard "Viktor Lenac" and thus fulfilled its promise. Receipts and severances have been found. For the first time in Croatia, with the successful completion of the five-year bankruptcy process, workers charged all claims, preserved the registries and almost a thousand jobs. Finally, I would like to stress that resolving the problem of Croatian shipbuilding is of strategic interest to the entire economy of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia is in the interest of all citizens taking all measures to protect and improve the shipbuilding industry in the Republic of Croatia. Finally, I would like to stress once again that the Croatian Democratic Community club refuses to interpret the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in relation to the role of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the process of restructureing and restructureing Croatian shipbuilding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14006	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. Excuse me, there was one correction, and it was an honorable representative of Shima Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14007	Thank you very much. Well, I think there's been some confusion in information. Since I have no reason to trust the Deputy Prime Minister, I'm going to correct the wrong quote of a colleague who listed a whole other number of shipbuilding sites that are going to be privatized. I am particularly interested in whether Trogir Shipyard, as my colleague said, is going to privatisation or not? So will it be privatised as a basic activity or will it be privatised as real estate? Well, I'm gonna take the opportunity to have the Deputy Prime Minister tell me, does that mean that even in shipyards where there will be no more basic activities, the government will keep 25%? And will the restructuring of maritime goods be carried out there, too?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14008	Thank you. So now we're going to continue the exposure. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14009	Dear Mr. Vice President, the esteemed Vice President of the Government, the esteemed gentlemen of the House of Representatives. Clearly, when it comes to shipbuilding we heard, well no, but come on now we have heard at least one more piece of information that in 2009 will privatize the meaning of the Oilstone against which I am 100% and May 3rd, Brodosplit and that I do not list the other shipyards. It's clear that you'd be far happier to hear which companies from the world could take over at this point in time this one of ours to express myself as a bankrupt shipyard. Croatian shipbuilding I dare say is bankrupt. She's a bottomless wretch. She is, the Germans would say, a coat. And it's clear there's something that needs to be done. The losses of Croatian shipbuilding in 2007 were 6 billion kuna above the core capital. In 2007, Croatian shipbuilding delivered as we heard 20 ships for $742 million or about $35 million per ship. Losing by one ship means last year was between $20 million and $25 million. I dare say there are no branches in which I will no longer be said to be stolen but alienated from Croatia rather than from Croatian shipbuilding. For example, in the last two years since the outbreak of the "Maček" affair, Split has failed or Brodosplit has contracted any ships. Just now, a few weeks ago, the government gave him the opportunity to build two export ships of 105 million dollars. What's going on in that shipyard is about the same thing that happened in Lichtenstein after she, the one, the disk was published. The monthly turnover of their banks from EUR 3 billion fell to EUR 100 million. So the problem is that no one's doing anything about it either. The second thing I dare say is we still don't know about this model of privatisation, recovery, restructuring, whatever we call it, and we're talking clearly about the entry of foreigners. We will probably be the first in this House to know who it will be, but for the time being we have heard that only, that the complete Croatian shipbuilding will be privatized next year. Mr. Sanader said a few months ago and he won't, I quote him, "let the shipbuilding shut down," and he's the prime minister. To count on shipbuilding, but it must be at least zero. He thinks it's possible to save, that it's possible to do business without state support. I don't think that's possible. It's the shut down of the shipbuilding. Without state subsidies of shipbuilding in Croatia will not be. Let me just say two words about the Polish model. Poland was admitted to the European Union in 2004. Poland has adopted in the European Union means that the shipbuilding restructuring programme by 2006 and by June that means behind us should have been privatised in 2008. Poland had already privatised the parts of the shipbuilding and had to re-purchase the sold. Most of it means she had a state. Minority packages had private banks on behalf of the debt that the shipbuilding could not pay. What is most controversial is the requirement, for example, when we talk about this Polish shipbuilding, of the European Union that shipyards reduce production or seek a refund of subsidies and Gdanjsk should therefore return around EUR 200 million of support. Now, allow me, gentlemen, to get to the Oilies. The oil is the only solvent Croatian shipyard but a shipyard that also delivered ships with significant losses in 2007. Not to speak clearly now. And if we include those 9% of the government's grant plus guarantees, it says: even the Oilman himself is not ready to privatise. And the privatization of the Oilies at this point should be said no. If the oil isn't ready to privatize what's only with one third May or down Brodosplit? Stories that this can be done through workers, the management of the city of Pula, the County of Istria for me are also very tense. Neither the workers, nor the city of Pula nor the County of Istria can take responsibility for the Oil but if they need to be better than this "Fincantieri" from Monfalcone which has begun to show certain interests or to do so by Poles who are now travelling through our shipyards. It is not exactly the government's vice president's information that, let's say, one of Italy has privatised its shipbuilding. It enters the privatisation of Montfalcon more precisely of the "Fincantieria" these or these days, and otherwise at this moment about the shipyard that may be the most profitable in Europe, the Italian state holds 98% of the stake. On the other hand, if we allow changes in locations as we have heard here, I am almost convinced that of the 5 Croatian shipyards on these sites in 5, 6 years there will be no more than 2. In the last 5 years, Ulnik has created a sum loss of 742.7 million kuna or EUR 100 million. But still and it's the only shipyard that still has a core capital above its loss. In other shipyards, it's the other way around. And so much, I thought it was tense, that workers, City of Pula, County of Istria can take over. The town of Pula, more specifically former mayor Mr. Djankarlo Zupic, wrote off almost 50% of the value of the City of Pula Uljanic's budget in 1998 and all with the aim of helping him and I think that the monetary injection has helped him in some way. Today this town, say Pula, could no longer. On the other hand, the County of Istria has a budget of around 220, 230 million kuna. That's the value of 50% of one ship. She can't track milk producers and where an Oilman will. Privatized Oil can today and I think it might be best in Croatia only our boaters clear with workers, with co-operatives, with management or with the city. Although I don't normally advocate that privatisation, I think that shipyard should remain in state hands for a while. But, like, and that's even questionable, and it's particularly doubtful the entry of foreigners because by privatising shipbuilding, we give foreigners "de facto" a good part of the Croatian market. Out of $740 million in 2007, the amount of it was, so the export of ships, 60% in that ship is import goods, and by privatisation by the foreigners, it will be 80%. De facto, the ship as the best Croatian export product by privatising a stranger, in some ways I dare say it is losing that original meaning. That needs to be prevented in my court. In my opinion, shipbuilding in Croatia needs to be given one more chance, and then a lot should be said. Privatisation as we have imagined it, I'm afraid there may be a shut-down of shipbuilding, although it is necessary to welcome the privatisation of the ironworks, there has been a lot to be done, as well as a commendation to the recovery of "Lance". Shipbuilding has yet to be supervised by the Croatian Government for some time now, and the Croatian Government, I will also say to one shipyard cannot be the mother of another stepmother. For the rehabilitation of shipbuilding only in 2006/2007. It went 4.2 billion kuna. On that basis, "May 3rd" has won a billion kuna, "Brodosplit" just as much, "Trogir" 650 million kuna, "Kinglevica" 250 million kuna, "Olinik" 0 kuna. I'm asking myself, who are you interested in? The truth is, "Olinik" has achieved last year, or those in the last 5 years a sumptuous loss of 742.7 million kuna, but "Olinik" from this 2008 is doing well with significant profits per ship, and not only that, but it has entered, helped consolidate, save, from bankruptcy pull one "Lenac", in one word, one "Olinik" is not at this time one "Third May", yesterday I read that this shipyard has no pay, and if there is no then a state should intervene and workers must go home with their wells. Now, meanwhile, the European Union has begun to say that the oil subsidies should also be returned. I'm asking myself who? If that's the case, then it's the key in the lock and that's why I'm saying there can't be one criterion for the oil mill, and the other one for another shipyard. But if they force us to do so, which I hope they won't, means that the shipyard is privatized, then I really call all the factors, I don't know what to call them in Istria, not to go out into the streets, but to sit down and see what happens. I think that this time when we talk about the privatisation of Croatian shipbuilding, we should highlight another minimum that should enter these conclusions, that we are going to privatise Croatian shipbuilding, but only on one condition, that those who impose the privatisation guarantee or guarantee their property. I mean here all the ministers in the Croatian Government and not the property they acquired until the 1990s, but the one they acquired from the 1990s to today. If they're willing to answer for that privatisation with their property, then I'm willing to always raise my hand for such a single privatisation. The dubiosis that will be shown in our shipbuilding will not be like the Slavonska Banka for which management will be held today, not the prime minister or ministers in that '96 government. the years when that privatisation happened. In 4.5 years and for the privatisation of other shipyards, the same things will happen to us. Is the privatisation of an Oilman now up to the European Union? I say no. None of us ask for the privatisation of the Oilies, it's a lie that the state can't subsidize shipbuilding, that's what everyone in Europe does through various forms, the problem is that every 3.4 years, there's a shipbuilding recovery, and there's basically nothing going on out there. And then these subsidies are de facto not more than 9% but with those recoverys of that "subsidy" under quotes are 100%, and that really is nowhere on the globe of the Earth. Since '90. To date, I claim that more than 30 billion kunas were invested in Croatian shipbuilding, which the state had to write off and indeed a lot of such practice. So, let the state continue to subsidise this Croatian shipbuilding, as we will call it, it is irrelevant, but let it cease to be remedied by giving Croatia's previous shipbuilding another chance, although I am aware of how much this would cost the Croatian state at the moment. So I'm saying that Croatian shipbuilding gets one real chance that in 2, 3 years until the entry into the European Union, our shipyards are being rehabilitated, that would be about 6 billion kunas, or more lipomas, and agriculture through subsidies gets about 3 billion kunas a year, and then simply a lot. Secondly, in the last three years, we've given these 4.6 billion kunas for, another one of these subsidies somewhere around a billion and something kuna, if we make that subsidy, clearly it's huge money, but whoever thinks it's going to do it to us, I think it's just as badly wrong. I wish in the end, to end it's already red, I'm cheating, but the privatization of the Oilies is very much afraid, I want the Istrians to understand that I am 100% against that privatisation, I'm afraid it won't bring us much good, but if it has to go to privatisation, then let's be one thing, let's do it ourselves with boaters, with management, with companies from Istria, with workers, with the city, if it's the same thing we should see. So far, the state has rehabilitated losses to shipyards, I said with about 30 billion kuna, the core capital of 5 shipyards is 900 million kuna, and the loss is 5.2 billion kuna. Short-term shipbuilding obligations are 6.5 billion kuna, long-term liabilities of another 2.8 billion kuna. Shipbuilding is really, like I said, not in a crisis but a coat and now you're really asking yourself what to do? It's hardly anyone at this point knows or sees where it's going to lead, but for starters, it might be enough to get into shipbuilding, so to speak, less alienated. The only solution is that the state remains in those shipyards for two to three years, so until the entry into the European Union, and for that, the state has to fight with the European Commission. If he does not fight, then there is no other way to wish himself and those who work in Croatian shipbuilding very, very much happiness.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14010	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. The third and last reported debate on behalf of clubs is that of the SDP club, the esteemed representative Mr Branko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14011	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Secretary. It is very difficult to speak, in fact, after these opening discussions made by counterpart Jurcic and Deputy Prime Minister on this subject. However, I will try therefore to adjust my concept a little bit to what we have had the opportunity to hear in these discussions. There is no doubt that the issue of shipbuilding status in Croatia today is one of the fundamental political issues, but I would also like to point out in particular that the idea of this interpretation was not politicised. So, representatives of the SDP know very well what problems burden Croatian shipbuilding, and this interpretation has actually already achieved the goal for me, and on that behalf I am grateful to the Deputy Prime Minister because it is very open today and for the first time mentioned some things for Croatian shipbuilding. I'll refer a little bit to those elements later. What I will not repeat is the problems of Croatian shipbuilding. I will not repeat how much Croatian shipbuilding means to the Croatian economy. I will also not repeat all the reasons that bind the state of the shipbuilding for Croatia's negotiations with the European Union. There's been a lot of talk about that by now. However, I would like to stress that one of my thesis also agreed to say again with a very open statement from Vice President Polancec that since the founding of the Croatian state there has really been no such restructuring plan that would be complete and that would have been implemented to the end in Croatian shipbuilding and has done what it is not today. So, more efficient, more productive, with good corporate business indicators. And of course with a lot of, a lot of savings in the state budget. What's the situation today, and we've heard about it. We've had a few restructuring plans that haven't produced results before. We have the latest restructuring plans, both complete and individual, which I still assume are in Brussels and there are no clear indications that all the conditions that Croatia needs to make in the shipbuilding restructuring process are met in these plans. We also have the government's decision to privatise Croatian shipyards, a decision that goes into two phases and, in fact, confuses a little bit since these two stages bind each other in a way that privatises these smaller shipyards and the Uljanics along with them is, in some way, a successful privatisation condition for privatisation of the remaining two major shipyards, which is "Third May" and "Brodosplit". Why aren't these things clear? In particular, the experience of privatisation in other countries, especially in these transitions that have recently become members of the European Union, has shown that there are many problems and I think that an initial situation in which Croatian shipbuilding is located today can also create delays among all those private investors who would eventually have a desire and will to participate in the privatisation of Croatian shipbuilding. I'll tell you about it later, but I want to repeat what my colleague Jurcic said at the beginning. So, the SDP between the whole restructuring model and the quality preparation of the shipyard for possible privatisation and privatisation model where privatisation is actually used as a means to not only say restructuring, but the healing of Croatian shipbuilding definitely belongs to this first model. We do not, of course, think that we should stop with the already started process of actually gradually privatising certain parts of the shipyard that do not make “core business” so-called. But we also think that after healing and establishing a better business for these shipbuilding sites, privatisation remains, of course, an opportunity for further expansion of activity and an even greater contribution to the overall Croatian economy. Of course, we have asked a series of questions about misunderstandings here and in the interpretation itself. In this sense, I would particularly like to highlight what the Deputy Prime Minister has actually presented as the model by which the Government is looking at today and wants to address the issue of shipbuilding in Croatia. However, even after this presentation, there are no clear views concerning the aspect of privatisation that includes the re-use of activities in the area where existing shipyards exist. I think that the interest and people who live there and people who work in shipyards is significantly greater for one more detailed information about the government's intentions at individual locations. And I think that actually one of the more detailed and high-quality designs would contribute to better and better quality information for citizens. What actually makes this privatisation process uncertain by us can actually be elaborated by a series of facts. One of them says that regardless of who will be the holder of the restructuring of Croatian shipbuilding, so it was the state, it was the private investor's demands for this restructuring are extremely large and what is a fundamental requirement for the restructuring plan to be sustainable. This is a fundamental requirement that is in line with the European Union guidelines on shipbuilding restructuring in all European Union countries. Why is this really an uncertain process? Because the costs are huge and I am of course, I support this thesis which is also in principle in the decision on privatisation stated, which is that it is actually negotiated between a private investor and a state.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14012	I will ask for peace in all parts of the assembly and in these passages talk outside the assembly, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14013	So, legitimately, I consider the government's intention to negotiate with a private investor in relation to the possibility of covering these amounts that go up to extremely high levels. However, I am afraid, and here I mention again the experiences of some other countries, that these amounts and these dubiosis are not one of the main obstacles to reaching an agreement. It seems to me that in the end, the cost of restructuring will again be the burden of the state. Because I think only under such conditions will private investors, at least those who, therefore, are talking about investors entering shipyards in order to restructure and train them and not eventually re-institute the locations where the shipyards are located today. Therefore, for the efficient business of that shipbuilding in the future it is extremely important that these investors have a high-quality initial position. And that initial position is actually a key thing in restructure shipbuilding. And everything we've missed, all these years, this initial position has made it worse. Mr. Vice-President mentioned compensatory measures, he mentioned his own contribution, especially in the part and compensatory measures and his own contribution, there is a clear correlation between the financial burden of the shipyard and the height, or rather the restrictive nature of these compensatory measures and the size of his own contribution necessary for restructuring. And I would especially like to give the accent because it is, in fact, crucial, a key parameter that enters into negotiations with private partners, i.e. investors. What I would like to mention in this context, I am grateful, I say again to the vice president because I have agreed with a lot of his thesis, but I want to point out where he is, in fact, I think that the problems remain and there is great uncertainty in the success of this whole project. Namely, our own contribution, we heard for the first time today and I absolutely agree with this thesis, that no shipyard in Croatia has the capacity to secure its own contribution and that is the key thing. And that's the only argument I can accept as a quick privatisation argument. Because private capital is the only chance that can secure this 50% stake in the restructuring process. From that point of view, I think our hands are tied and I say I accept it as a quality and good argument for what this restructuring process expects. And just two more questions that I find equally important to mention, were here talking about the maritime good. I know for an attempt to get right through the possible compensation for exempting maritime goods from the property of the shipyard as a possible own contribution, but as far as I know that approach won't really work out, and there we say additionally in the gable. And finally something which is also the same when privatisation was chosen as a means of solving problems in shipbuilding important, just a few weeks or days there were discussions about so-called. Social clauses in privatisation contracts. And just recently, at the request of the European Commission, we gave up these clauses. An extremely important issue to protect the position of people working in these shipyards today. How and how it will be dealt with, what kind of ropes will be included in these contracts, i.e. in the tender itself, as the vice president said, these are issues that will really, indeed, need to be accounted for. So we think that privatisation as a model is legitimate, but it seems to me on the other hand that Croatian shipbuilding is burdened with so many problems that will make it difficult to implement this process and possibly make it impossible to actually implement the whole imagined model. I have to tell you that there was, and there was, I think, a little while ago mentioned that some examples from Poland have shown that the pre-contracts on buying some shipyards existed, but that the process of realising this job was extremely slow running, I don't know what the situation is today, but it was extremely slow running, only because the huge problems were lying on the back, so, huge dubiosis, financial burdens on the back of those shipyards. So obviously there are a whole series of issues, the question is now the role of the state, can it take that last step and the last effort to support the restructuring of at least some shipyards, and then actually with one better starting position go into the privatisation process. I think the history experience from the establishment of the Croatian state to this day teaches us that we must be very careful in this regard and do everything possible to make this process as transparent as possible, as high-quality as possible. And I think even, here I estimate that these deadlines in March 2009 are really too short and that this whole job will be very hard to do by then. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14014	Thank you, Mr. Representative. I am now correcting my incorrect claim that this was the last debate on behalf of the clubs, as the HSLS club, HSU, the respected representative, Mr. Silvano Hrelja, also applied. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14015	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, in the first wave, I meant not to talk about this, but as Puljan, as Istrian, as a shipbuilder, I simply feel it's my duty to say a few words about this interpletion, that is, the very situation of shipbuilding and to help clear up some of our dilemmas. First, I think that in this House everyone has the right to talk about shipbuilding, but I think they have the right to speak more to those whose ship is on the heart, so those who were beneath the ship or who saw this huge mass moving into the sea or how this huge, huge structure is created from one detail. I am not euphoric and to speak it is the best product Croatia has, it is the most complex product, the biggest product for the world market that Croatia has, and the best product that bears the most profits for those who do it, for owners etc. So we need to clear one dilemma, Croatian shipbuilding is needed in Croatia, but it is not profitable, but it is therefore pro-pulsive. But it's pulsating again on one condition, if it develops, not if it's a pile of losses, so if there's no development of shipbuilding it's not pro-pulsive. Because it doesn't develop the accompanying industry because it can't be paid, it just chokes all those craftsmen, small employers who work for that same shipbuilding. It's not the first case of this present situation. The current situation extends in Croatian shipbuilding for the last 17, 18 years. And of course, it is not the responsibility of this government or just this government for the state of the Croatian shipbuilding. The responsibility is all governments and responsibility is multiple. The responsibility is for what they've done, but it's even bigger for what they haven't done. I remember attempts like today in 1998 to the business community "Jadranbrod" it was a new hope after one recovery, it was given the task of uniting the purchase, so that only one segment in the shipbuilding pooled acquisition that not every shipyard had its price in the purchase of black metallurgy rather than to reduce the price of this black metallurgy by a joint contingent. But, gentlemen, we may have had a good leadership of the business community, but the directors of the shipyards were sitting on the board of the management board and of course they were protecting their interests. So the state has not shown the skills to control this shipbuilding completely. I really don't see the privatisation of shipbuilding as a goal. It can be a means to the planned development of shipbuilding. Why am I saying that? Well, because I've seen many times in my eyes and I've seen how Italian "Molfacone" developed here mentioned "Fincanteri". In the distant 74th year, all the shipyards in Italy were drawn a line. All debts written off and from that day forward management in a way that the one from Naples is the director of "Molfacon", the one from Trieste went to Genoa. So no one could go in line with suppliers, along with contractors, etc. Because whether we admit it or not, in Croatia there is and no one could survive on the market that went red, so that did not comply with the rules that the Italian state had set for them. You've got so many subsidies and you can't go under there. Use all the creative capabilities of your employees, take advantage of all the possibilities of reorganization, I'll give you only credits, favourable loans for technological development of shipbuilding and they're no matter what the state shipbuilding introduced, they've introduced a specialization of the shipyard, so everyone, they don't do all the shipyards, but one for the passenger ships, the other for the ferry, the third ships work up to so many thousands of tons of load capacity, ships for special purposes. So specialization, so the technologically well-trained shipyards, and privatisation is at the end. Here's counterpart Cain said he had now received information that only now "Fincanteri", "Molfacone" is one of the most promising Italian shipyards in terms of technological progress, technological innovation that is only now trying to privatise itself. What about some price? Is that the price when he's in losses or the price when he's at the top of his production and technology skills? So the gentlemen here are missed, it's been a long time, a lot of money spent and we still don't know if what we're proposing here is the development of shipbuilding. Why do we not say in the Croatian state, gentlemen of the Queen will, in the general state interest, make all necessary ferryes to be operated in the Croatian state. We were never prepared for such decisions. These decisions are severe, these decisions bear responsibility, but such a shipyard, I speak to the Queen because it may be the most suitable in dimensions for such a process. For these decisions it takes elemental courage and then privatisation is not the goal, then no more ferry in Hong Kong, Singapore or elsewhere than we have new ones produced in Croatia. It can be done by Croatia. Croatia cannot suppress its maritime tradition, the tradition of shipbuilding. This shipbuilding is in the genes of our citizens, the genes of our Dalmatians, the Istrians, the Primorians. So we can't just privatize it. I agree that privatisation is a means of achieving a planned goal. I can agree with that, I can't agree that deadlines are enough, I think deadlines are too short. I am prepared to always confront the views with the Deputy Prime Minister and what I would like to demystify. Don't ask the European Commission to throw out the social clause. No one in Europe can ask us to do that. Because the contract will eventually be signed by two entities. The owner of the shipyard and the new buyer and no one on the side has the right to affect the final content and final arrangements in the agreement. Of course he's got to give in somewhere to get on the other side, but the social clause isn't my people banned, and I'm sure of it. And checked through union representatives, with representatives of the European Commission. That's the last piece of information I checked. Of course, this process must go on, of course we can't be insinuated with the fact that cities and municipalities and management can handle this privatisation. Although the city of Pula would deserve the name of non-payment of municipal contributions and municipal fees over the years, it would deserve to receive a certain percentage of the shares, but it obligates because the owner of the shipbuilding, then the new owner must recover new losses if he does. Hence, it is not a gift that I can boast of but is a gift that binds. So that's not only to be taken care of, but the state will always write off, because definitely other economic branches have the right to say so once we've recovered shipbuilding and we can't keep healing it without it still being sick, and I think that with such a model represented by colleague Cain, we would come to great risks. In any case, I support the government's efforts because the situation definitely, not because of Europe but because of us, cannot remain as it is. But I also invite all colleagues and colleagues who are involved in this process, which I say is shipbuilding and a ship on the heart, to actively engage in finding the best solutions not for privatisation, for the development of shipbuilding, and let privatisation be a means to achieve that goal because shipbuilding is part of us and part of our families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14016	Thank you very much. All these clubs reportedly exhausted their hearings. Now I would like to call and ask the applicant's representative if he would like to take the final word? Dear representative Mr. Ljubo Jurcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14017	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm actually most content with today's discussion and with the support we've received from our interpretation, at least there was one explicitly no. In fact, we did not ask for anything but what the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia said was done. And we believe that what is done should be known to the Croatian Parliament, so if anything else and the Croatian Government shares that responsibility with the Croatian Parliament. The HDZ representative said explicitly that he refuses to interpret, but now the vice president said he accepts most of it, so now I don't know if there's a chance that we can get a little better in all this. ... Representative, yes, yes. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] In any case, it wasn't intended to politicise. I think that's how all the discussions in most cases today were. When you look at the discussion and the data that we have presented as proposings and these data are repeated only much more precisely, since the government has insight into these data, that these data are business secrets that are not available to the public. We've been doing more or less evaluations so that more or less we agree here in everything together. The fact is that Croatian shipbuilding has not done business with profits for a year, that it has achieved a loss. But it's also a fact that in Europe, 200 shipyards all work with profits. They're both big and small shipyards. The fact is, in Europe, all major shipyards work with profits. And a recently respected colleague of the Hrelja mentioned "Fincantieri" so now I've had a look at "Fincantieri." Last year, he had about 100m euros in profits, and thanks to the increased demand for ships on the world market, the profits rose by 21%. What I cited in favour of Croatian shipbuilding is what makes the power of Croatian shipbuilding. But I also cited the problems of Croatian shipbuilding that need to be solved so that Croatian shipbuilding becomes as efficient as all more or less shipbuilding sites are efficient in the world. The comparison of shipyards and ironworks, the metal sector can formally and legally stand, but essentially not because the problems in shipbuilding are much more complex. Namely, this metal industry has several instructions, a little energy, raw materials, coke, iron, etc., three or four instructions. And in my presentation, I said that shipbuilding or ship manufacturing has 20, 30, 50 and even 100 thousand instructions. If these inputs are not well organised, then only at that stage of production can be a condition to carry out the loss. So the very production of ships has several phases that each stage several times more technologically complex than the complex phase in production or aluminium or iron or iron pipes etc. which are actually simple processes that are actually determined by technology when this technology is installed. And in ships, it's a little different. So here the boat is a really complex product, there are a lot more processes and in every process if you're not effective products being lost. And we have those fundamental elements, very high-quality and, in fact, we should work on that process first, which maybe shouldn't cost a lot at first. As for loss and privatisation, that sounds nice. But I'm the only one who doesn't know a private who would cover expenses he won't be able to make up for later. No private investor is a caritative institution. So these losses she's created so far, accumulated and arranged for Croatian shipbuilding that we didn't want, talked about it one way or another, there's no politicizing there, it's a pure profession, it's going to be submitted by Croatian taxpayers. It is only a matter of how to manage these losses and how to manage those costs, that they are put under control as soon as possible, so that they do not in themselves increase. State guarantees will remain still when they are privatised. The European Commission adopted the regulation in 2003 at the 5th month of the issue of state guarantees for European shipbuilders, and each year it extended the application of these rules. And on the other day, on the 4th of July of this year, it re-longed the application of the rules for the award of shipbuilding guarantees, while the German State was granted permission to issue guarantees to its shipyards in some amount. So there are many more elements, the process is much more complex. And what we've been looking for, we haven't said that it's done well or that it's done badly in this process. We just wanted what Mr. Vice President told us, that we see here in the Parliament a program of complete restructuring of Croatian shipbuilding and individual programmes etc. We didn't say that it was good for you either, we just want to see it, to participate in this process and to follow and if we can from our position as much as we can help in the situation of the desire to maintain that shipbuilding. However, I would warn of some other elements regarding this process if those restructuring programmes were not completed. Shipbuilding cannot be restructured only in the shipyard. 75% of the value added in the ship comes from equipment, and this equipment is mainly produced not in shipyards but is produced in other activities. And that is why it is important not only to restructure shipbuilding, but to restructure the entire Croatian economy. The structural policy of Croatia is important, and the structural policy of Croatia should be determined by that industrial policy that Croatia needs to make and has already handed over as a negotiating chapter to the European Commission. Since I am a member of the National Committee for Europe, I have not noticed there that such activities are envisaged to support the accompanying industry for the production of parts and equipment for Croatian shipbuilding. So in the end, if this process ends well to maintain Croatian shipyards, it can eventually become a side, can only become an assembly, and since we have another chapter with the European Union, which is freedom of movement of work so that we can have foreign shipyards in our ports that will produce their positive effects and that foreign workers work in these ports. This is why it is important to adopt industrial policy and if we need to put foreign workers into the building of Croatian equipment inside which this added value is created and employed by our people. The second part that is actually needed to make proper restructuring of the Croatian shipbuilding industry is regional policy. All these shipyards are always located somewhere and therefore the task of regional policy is to build appropriate physical and institutional infrastructure in those areas where these shipyards are so that these shipyards can work effectively. If we do not make this infrastructure both physically and institutionally, and the infrastructure is always the task of the state, then it simply cannot be an efficient restructuring of shipbuilding if its environment is not restructured to support that shipbuilding. There are other than physical infrastructures and these institutional ones are institutes. The Croatian ship became quality and received awards because we had a quality shipping institute that is little on the side today. He's been neglected and we're looking for foreign consultants who give us a copy of the paste some solutions in the cover, which no one reads more or less, maybe the vice president and we who write the correspondence so we can talk about something. But actually, this whole institutional infrastructure needs to exist, institutes, agencies, that will support this industry otherwise there won't even be a new owner. On the other hand, as regards the reuse of individual shipyards, this is the same issue as regional policy. What other activity would come in place of the shipbuilding industry and how much added value or per square space and per worker that other industry would give. It's often mentioned here and I have a shipyard in mind, and it's a "Brodotrogir" so at first glance it looks nice to us, so if we put the deckchairs in there, we might rent a deck chair in that position, maybe make more money. Maybe. But the question of comparison is, what education and experience is being marketed in shipbuilding, if it is in tourism? However, the shipbuilding activity is a little more complex, exists and gives a little more added value. The waiter's work is difficult, the maid's work is difficult, etc., but much more brings work designing, installation and even welding, etc. We have to deal with it with regional policy, so we know the correct answer to the question, if we leave this industry, this shipbuilding activity, which is another industry, what we need to build for that other industry, another activity, which infrastructure, how much it costs, and everything in the economy and strategy is called Cost-Benefit analysis. How much does this cost and how much does it bring? How much does leaving this thing cost, how much does it bring? And what needs to be done next in order for the general restructuring to succeed, that's education. We often say that we are a society of knowledge, we invest a lot in education, and I can freely say here, that our reform of education will not succeed, because education is the input of production. And you, in order to make education, must mean what that input serves to do that education. If we do not know what we will do, what activities we will do, we will certainly not know what kind of instruction and education we need. And here it is now an important strategic decree whether our shipbuilding will survive, if it will survive next to this physical institutional infrastructure, so should education. But I didn't quite notice that the state that's in charge of education and all this infrastructure has education in its programme. And look at all the countries of Germany, Finland, England, America, not to say now Korea, Japan, etc. All these elements of the strategy exist. And even England's liberal country has five, six strategies for such thick books that English shipyards work on, and even American ones. The other day I was preparing this debate thinking it would be a little wider and we'd all be able to talk a little bit, I was also reading the American view of the shipbuilding industry. Here's a colleague, Cosic. It belongs to his territory. It asked how dangerous it was for American security to develop Chinese shipbuilding, because in ten years, the Chinese will be able to work destroyers and aircraft carriers that will be able to move around the world. And they are already coordinating their policy and military and strategic towards the development of Chinese shipbuilding. And Chinese ships in 5.6 years won't be or won't be the ones that are being done today, China is already 2% of its gross domestic product for research and development. There's the highest increase in that 20 percent year-on-year separation. China wants for ten years not to produce cheap goods, but to produce quality goods and high-quality ships. The goal or strategy of the development of Croatian shipbuilding is not only in regional policy, but it is in fact predicting what the world shipbuilding market will look like in 10 years. And it's very easy to predict today. Because these ships that do our shipbuilding, big shipbuilding, are mostly big ships. There's about 40 grand of these ships out there today, sailing all over the place. Their sustainability is about 30 years, so every year 3.4% of the world's economy has to be replaced by this ship. So four times forty thousand, a thousand 600 ships are every year the demand for these ships, even knowing which ships are coming out, which ships will be sought and what technologies are. We also know which ships will come out in 10 years and which technologies will be produced in 10 years in this shipbuilding restructuring strategy. That's what a private man will never do. This is the task of state agencies, institutes and institutes to predict what a world situation will be on the world market and whether Croatia will be able to find its niche in that shipbuilding market in 10, 15 years, where it will be able to work successfully and earn money and what it is due to do today to win this niche in 2015, 2020. Now, that would be a small contribution to those of us who wrote the interpretation. It's not politics, we can't do spaceships, we can't build more planes, even if Europe has its own project for 2030 and for the 2030 planes, we can't get involved in this right now in our mandate, but in this mandate, if we don't restructure our shipbuilding, we can do a good project that's not a question on the left or right, but it's a matter of technology, economy, markets and all of these processes, and it's our obligation to our citizens and our country, because it's asking a question which other activity we can create, who's going to achieve more added value than when we have this shipbuilding and infrastructure and brand and this all that I've mentioned at first. So I would ask you to accept the proposal of our conclusions, because, in my opinion, it essentially coincides with what the Government is doing formally, and we would try to make a contribution with our discussions on these individual, group funding plans in the club debates here in the Assembly speaker. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14018	Thank you. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain, or take the final word? Yeah. Dear Damir Polancec, vice-president of the Croatian government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14019	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Parliament. First of all, let me really thank all those who participated in today's debate because I think that today's debate went to the benefit of Croatian shipbuilding and went to the Croatian public and explain certain moments, certain steps, certain procedures in the process of restructureing Croatian shipbuilding. I'm sorry that all those who participated in today's debate are not at this point in the assembly, I will only comment very briefly on some of the things that have been heard and I think I'm misunderstood in my initial presentation. First of all, I would like to say once again, of course that privatisation is not and cannot be a goal in itself, but the aim is to restructure and restructure Croatian shipbuilding that will result in the survival of Croatian shipbuilding companies and that is the real goal. Privatisation is just a means. I said in my statement that some countries carried out the process of rehabilitation and restructuring without entering private capital. So, I didn't say that Italy and Poland privatized their shipyards, so now they're repurchasing them as it was said in some comments, but I was saying that, once again I'm going to say that Italy and Poland have implemented a process of rehabilitation and restructuring that is ultimately showing that it wasn't too successful, and now these countries are just moving into the privatisation that we're proposing as a means to achieve the goal. What I'm saying is that I memorized that saying and Mr. Cain's request, Mr. Caine says it would be good for the ministers to guarantee their assets for the success of privatisation and I'm setting things up like this. If, therefore, the process of recovery and restructuring if carried out by the state itself without private capital involvement implies that the state must at this time assume more than 8 billion kuna obligations on taxpayers' burden and for the next three-year period and additional, an additional few billion kunas. And if this process involves 25 billion kuna, 22.5 billion kuna, issued new state guarantees, then is not the same risk, and who guarantees us that this is a better path and that rehabilitation and restructuring will, in that way, be more successful when it's carried out by the state. I think you'll agree that the private capital, the private owner, will have a uniquely defined owner who will be more successful in this process of recovery and restructuring, so that's why we and that way prefer. There's a lot I have to do. I will once again list the most important issues so open, not so open, issues that really need to be solved on that path of recovery and restructuring. We must address the issue of maritime goods and the extraction of maritime goods from the core capital of every society. We need to resolve the return of property, first of all to third May, we need to resolve property legal issues which are also open issues, because there are property legal disputes related to land and some property in some of the shipyards. I didn't mention today, there wasn't enough opportunity or time, we need to build a new eastern entrance to the Split Square, it's also part of our job, define the total amount of state aid from the beginning, from the date of signing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement until the completion of the recovery and restructuring process. We must define what compensation measures we will therefore, which we will, therefore, implement, what is the own contribution of each individual company. In the end, we all need to define together the best privatisation model for each shipbuilding site. And there's really no reason to be afraid, there's no reason to think about what these models will look like. The models, like all of this so far, will be defined in cooperation with our social partners, in cooperation with the management of each company, in cooperation with trade unions operating in each of these companies. And, of course, in cooperation with local and regional self-government units because we are very aware of what an Uljanik means for Pula, which one Brodosplit means for Split, which one queen means for the town of Kraljevica etc., etc.. I said and we mentioned the privatisation will go into two stages. So I mentioned that there will be privatisation of Brodosplit and Third May, precisely because we have to solve property legal issues there, which we have to define the return of property precisely because we are going to build a new entrance in Split and to be even more concrete, even more detailed, we are going to build a new parking lot, which is why in the first phase of these three shipyards: Oilic, Kraljevica, Brodotrogir and BSO as a daughter of Brodosplit. And after solving these open questions, both Third May and Brodosplit. We will define privatisation models with trade unions, with management and representatives of units of local and regional self-government. Of course, we are working in parallel with this on a new system of support that will be fully consistent and that support for the shipbuilding industry will be in the future, but not at this level and not on these principles on which these support is and granted to date. In my first address, I may not have been so decadent as to say that we're rejecting, of course, the interpretation, I didn't say that, and I said at the beginning that I agree with much of what was said in the introduction. So precisely because I agree, we had a debate that went in many segments in the same direction, in the same direction, I do still argue that there is no need for the interpretation that we are of course rejecting, and I am actually experiencing the whole debate as a support of the efforts to finally end once in the right way the recovery and restructuring of Croatian shipbuilding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14020	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We will vote when the necessary information is obtained. That's the end of the 17th point.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14021	21. Interpletion on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in connection with the role of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the process of rebuilding the Croatian shipbuilding industry. Member of the Club of Representatives of the SDP. The debate is closed. The government proposed to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion: Interpelation on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in connection with the role of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the process of resuscitation and restructuring of the Croatian shipbuilding industry is rejected. I am giving the vote a conclusion, a proposal for the government's conclusion. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This proposal of the government's conclusion was accepted by 80 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 50 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14022	We move to the 18th point: - Interpletion on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia regarding the role of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the implementation of the law and the exercise of the rule of law and the protection of human rights and human dignity, as the highest value of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia Members of the SDP Club. Representatives of the Croatian Parliament on the basis of Article 190. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament submitted this interpretation. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. Do the proposing representatives want to show themselves? Yeah. Dear Representative Ranko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14023	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, honorary representatives of the government. I would like to refer to this interpretation, given that it has already been two months since the time we submitted it in some way reminded of what was said in this section, so I think that in this part I can say the next part, which means that the Croatian public, by publishing the video of Mirjana Jusup Pukanic's arrest on 3 April 2008, saw a completely unfounded brutal use of force against the citizen. The release of this video identified a number of other issues in the gaps that preceded the forced hospitalisation of Mrs Mirjana Jusup Pukanic. After the event, a number of state officials continued to violate the fundamental constitutional principles of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia by missing their duties. Mrs. Mirjana Jusup Pukanic was exposed to an attempt to treat her as a person with serious mental disorders, her rights to review and consent to treatment were denied. The humiliating arrest scenes in front of dozens of journalists and TV cameras have violated its human rights, freedom and dignity. Mrs. Jusup Pukanic did not endanger herself or others but instead told reporters about the abuse she has endured for years and what her claims have refused to respond to state institutions. In her apartment without permission to violate home integrity without a reasoned request for forced hospitalisation, police intervention was taken from her home in handcuffs and detained in a psychiatric facility. Since this was not the first case in which the competent institutions have disobeyed her warning and cry out, reports and reports of domestic abuse, but also the provision of information on the committing of criminal offences was severely injured by her constitutional, civil and human rights. Healthcare professionals, police, social workers, and state officials in their actions and statements by disobeying legal provisions have ignored and avoided the treatment we can interpret by a cover-up and, in particular, acted too late. Unsuitable statements also in the particular case of Mrs Mirjana Jusup Pukanic have severely violated her constitutional rights and the freedoms of a citizen and violated the citizens' confidence in state institutions. A state in which it is possible to use a telephone call without examination, without a written explanation of forced accommodation in a psychiatric hospital, to mark someone with serious mental disorders, to order police intervention, without a legal stand to publicly humiliate them by taking them to handcuffs in front of cameras of ten present journalists, to hospitalise without a foundation is not a state that protects its citizens, the Constitution and laws if not sanctioned by all those who have acted in this way and participated in it. The question arises as to how it would be to treat all those involved in this, especially medical staff, police officers to Mrs. Jusup Pukanic that at the time of her detention there were no journalists who recorded all this together. But even when civil rights violations were witnessed through the media by the entire Croatian public to the competent institutions it took several days to respond at all. How long does it take for a reaction in cases where a violation of the right takes place in private without a public eye and whether those citizens who are not interesting to the media are ever going to need to ask if anyone will ever protect their rights? Is it possible that our citizen may be left to the will of employees of individual services and their illegal conduct? If in a situation with a dozen witnesses recorded events it is so difficult to prove the abuse of the powers of the competent staff that it is difficult when they are not there. What matters to me in view of the gravity of this case and how many places the law has been broken, I must first of all say that, apart from the Constitution that guarantees equality to all before the law, this House has passed the Law on the protection of persons with mental disorders. He did not bring it without reason with very precise instructions as to how a person with mental disorders was prescribed, in which way he could be forced to be hospitalized and equally in order to protect health and safety, he stated that it was most important to protect the dignity of a person with mental disorders and that this must be respected in all circumstances. A review of a person treated as a person with severe mental disorders can be carried out against her will only if she has seriously directly threatened her life, health or safety of herself or other persons. Also, the person with severe mental disorders is she in order to be precise who is unable to understand the meaning of her actions or cannot rule with her own will or those possibilities have been reduced to such a degree that she needs psychiatric help, and this certainly was not Mrs. Jusup Pukanic, nor was she today. In Article 22 of the same law, it is very precise when it is possible to review or initiate a forced accommodation procedure in a psychiatric institution of a person treated as a person with serious mental disorders without a prescription. What is very important and I was particularly surprised at the moment I read the papers and reports on our committees, which is that the Director of the Emergency Services says that a form that has been prescribed for ten years as a paper that has to be fulfilled under the law in order for someone to be forced into that facility is not known to have been fulfilled by anyone. If that is true, it is perfectly clear how all other healthcare professionals treat that law if a director in such an institution who is surely facing such cases daily does not consider it appropriate to fill that paper. That is exactly what the most important thing is to respect the procedure, especially in such persons and especially in these circumstances. Why the procedure is important and why it is important to insist on a form that we may treat as a paper that is a question of whether to do so. It was not prescribed by Minister Reiner long ago in 1998 precisely on the basis of the Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disturbation because it contains data on the health institution, place and time of examination, data on the person who called the doctor, who gives all the information and summary. And equally in the form is recorded course of examination, psychologically and... Neurological status as well as manual diagnosis in Latin and code. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In particular, this is particularly important reasons why forced accommodation is considered necessary on the basis of Article 22. The law on the protection of persons with mental disorders as well as the need to hire authorised persons of the MUP and it is signed and certified by a doctor of medicine. And when you face the fact that the leaders of emergency aids don't use this, then they can only compare it to the situation that the Ministry of the Interior without a solution for detention goes to any person and eventually it ends up in custody. A psychiatrist is a person who makes a decision on forced detention, and in the coercion procedure, not without reason, the public is excluded as all participants in the proceedings are obliged, regardless of what they learned to keep it a secret during the proceedings for everything they have learned. On April 3rd, when it happened all together, Mrs. Jusup Pukanic asked for police intervention in the morning at 5am and 17 minutes, saying she had problems with her wife. The result, like many times before, was that she had an ambulance. Ignoring not then but on several occasions exactly the situation to seek help, to seek police intervention happened again and on April the third, the same thing that happened on April 1st and October 2, 2007, and 18 times before that when she reported it meant abuse in her apartment, in her life and by the very people mentioned. Never had a conscious conversation on this basis been made until 2.10.2007, and everything else was in a situation that the first aid came to her every time she asked for help. What is particularly indicative in this case, which is that we are facing the fact that a doctor who has not seen her for a year issue a manual based on her own judgment on the patient and in a way that she has ruled on a phone call so that she could endanger her own life and the safety of other persons since she could not leave the office, then decided to give the manual to the employees of the Centre for Social Work that Mrs. Jusup Pukanic was forced into a psychiatric institution. It seems she was lucky at that moment, because there was no doctor in the ambulance, so here are the reports and in response to the government we actually praise that she was fine because there was no consumption of that manual just for the simple reason that there was no doctor in the ambulance at the time. I must point out that only in the event that a medical check of her medical condition is found necessary only then can a person be even in a situation where an emergency physician is present to force someone to shut up in a psychiatric facility. Mrs. Pukanic refused a checkup in her apartment. She didn't give consent to enter the apartment, and the doctor's name was handed over the report of a psychiatrist's specialist made the day before. I note, on that day, the same ambulance took part in a similar action. So it was the same attempt. The cops were also there, but forced hospitalization that day wasn't done as well as the day before. Why? Because the ambulance doctor made sure there was no reason for forced hospitalization. The next day, however, an ambulance doctor came in who concluded that she had reason to, despite hospital documentation, an authorized psychiatric facility that she didn't need a physical examination, especially forced detention. At that point, instead of assisting doctors as it was legally stated, police officers had conducted a clean, orderly police detention. She didn't threaten herself or anyone else. That can be witnessed absolutely by everyone who's been there, as well as anyone who's seen the footage. These videos clearly show that it is a defensive reaction due to fear and stress after she has already shown the police a medical document on her mental state that there is no reason for her hospitalization. But it did not prevent police officers from applying a force that was not adequate for resistance, but was completely and tactfully, and also because of the use of it completely illegal and missed. What is also very indicative, which is that such a procedure by police officers at the Ministry of the Interior has been assessed as legal although the Department of Internal Control against its regular practice has deliberately failed to establish the accuracy and truthfulness of the allegations and has also made a serious failure to verify the above mentioned data of the Department of Legality of the Zagreb Police Administration. That it's so best said the fact that not one conversation with a single witness was made, and there were ten. There are no exception shots of complete events from which it is clear that the reports written are contrary to what really happened, and also the Croatian Parliament has experienced that in the reports you receive information that does not correspond to the truth. So the police report says that Mrs. Pukanic yelled "I will kill you all" even though it does not entirely match the truth about the video of the event itself. What is particularly important, not only did the police overstep their powers and not act in accordance with the Law on the Protection of Persons. Because I repeat, it wasn't about assistance, it was about clean police detention. Mrs. Pukanic refused to grant voluntary consent to the treatment procedure. You're not allowed to contact a lawyer. The court was not informed within the deadlines, and after the court's ruling, it was released without therapy. I'm going to mention again this April 1st, 2008 when at 12.29 for reasons of threats made to police records she did not act. But there was therefore a tip from emergency medical staff who asked for help with the next sentence at 3:30 p.m., which is to get rid of the psychotic Mirjana Jusup Pukanic. This seems to be the usual way of communicating where when he asks for an intervention he gets an ambulance. What is important is not a single sentence in this interpretation, all those who participated in it is not written from anything else but from documents delivered to this Assembly, and among other things, what I have read now is a police report, or report that came to the Croatian Assembly precisely as mentioned sentences that write about police records of events that were held on April 1st, 2008. What is important in this part when we warned that Health Minister Darko Milinovic had his failure and then his late conduct and contradictory statements actually violated the citizens' trust both in the government and state institutions. Not getting too far into the details is clear that on April 3rd, an event occurred, a portal published it. On April 8th, HKO asked to report to the public about what happened and to show the health ministry, however, only 10 days after the event itself, we have the first reaction of Health Minister Darko Milinovic. What is important is that the day after that, Minister Milinovic considered it appropriate to go to the Vrapce psychiatric facility. That's where he found there were no leaks. And what's important yesterday is the fact that the next one means that the State's Attorney's Office is conducting investigative actions no longer with the question of whether Mirjana Pukanic is illegally deprived of liberty than who is the perpetrator of the illegal deprivement of freedom. What is important and what has changed in this situation is that the State Attorney's Office for those who know how to operate in the CAP obviously took over the function of the state authorities who should have done so long ago expressing their dissatisfaction with the obvious direct actions asked for investigative actions without trust in the papers that it had received by then. I do not wish to prejudge anyone's guilt but what is very important I repeat is no longer a question of whether it is already a question of who illegally deprived Mirjana Pukanic Jusup or Jusup Pukanic. The treatment in the psychiatric institution itself has already been stated but what is particularly important and I think it is particularly important to say it is very bad when someone thanks the hospital that Mrs Pukanic allegedly stated that she was very pleased when she was detained or while she was being detained in forced treatment. I will also, in this initial presentation, specifically refer to the part that I think is very important that all the procedures of both health care professionals and police officers, their managers hastily justified it, or those who are truly in charge as state officials all said that everything is clean and that it is by law. Also, what is evident only under public pressure has started reviewing procedures. The lack of a timely reaction is something that threatens both democracy and the rule of law because institutions that are part of a state-run repressive apparatus are being sent a message that in this case everything was fine, that it was handled by procedure. And of course I think it is very important that the uncertainty certainly of every citizen in this country comes from the feeling that when state institutions can abuse or that they can forcely hospitalise in a psychiatric institution without a legal stand, without reviewing the assistance and application of the force against the law, it is certain that it raises the question whether the Government of the Republic of Croatia is justifying such procedures and the absence of a timely reaction, in some way and by rejecting the conclusions or suggestions that it is made in response is certain to lower the level we have achieved or what we want by entering the European Union. And that's what I expect the government to be sensitive to any, even the slightest attempt to endanger fundamental human rights and freedoms, and that's what happened in this case. I will also remind you that the SDP has proposed four conclusions in this interpretation, which is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is tasked with taking measures under its jurisdiction towards all participants who have allowed the case of the description to take place in the interpretation. It is also tasked with the competent national authorities to immediately initiate procedures in their jurisdiction to verify the truthfulness of the case covered by this impediment as an example of a failure to protect all persons from the abuse of the rights of patients. It is also tasked by the government to urgently ensure the legal functioning of committees to protect persons with mental disorders both in psychiatric institutions and state-level. The Croatian Parliament also calls on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to ensure that all those acting under the Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disturbation for whom the need for protection is particularly highlighted, their fundamental human rights to strictly respect legal regulations and procedures. And something has just happened that no one would expect because no data has been used here, not a single statement, not a single argument that is not from the law or the quoting of a state official or the reports of these very state institutions, and at the same time we get a response from the Government that simply does not refuse to refuse, but says that it is politicisation and that this is a collection of cheap political points and an attempt to deceive the results of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the protection of fundamental human rights. I think it best paints the fact next and I believe that each of you would in some way take it as an example of humiliation that the government did not even want to mention the name Mirjana Jusup Pukanic is already marked with M.J.P.. At no time will you notice her name in the government's response. I think it best paints the situation in which and in fact the treatment enjoyed by a citizen who is currently in a safe house, and it's a big question given everything that's happened that it might not happen that as soon as she gets out of the safe house she's being brought in, at least for drugs, to get back into handcuffs, and I wouldn't be surprised that she might be charged with domestic abuse. As for the example as stated in the government's reply that this is an exceptional concern for human rights, I am convinced that none of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia would want to experience the fate of Mirjana Jusup Pukanic and what she experienced because I am sure that this is not an exceptional concern about the protection of human rights. It is also clear that there was no journalist question whether we would have ever been in a situation to talk about this case, and if it hadn't been for the question whether, after 7 years, there would have ever been an extraordinary surveillance in Lopac, whether our committees would have started to get three performances, or paper daily on these situations. What is important was that all state bodies and social care centres and doctors and police were involved, and when in response to the government, you actually get a situation that was fundamentally ignorant of the law, which is that the government respected the trio of authorities, it did not interfere in the case of forced detention at the time of the trial in which it was decided and that from the first day of coercion and detention of Ms M.J.P. The government has been closely monitoring the developments through the resolution ministries. This is absolutely contrary to the law because the decision on forced detention is not brought by the court, those who carefully read the law will see who is making the decision on forced hospitalisation and what is the role of the court in the situation. It is also incorrect that the government has followed closely or may have since the first day of coercion and detention. Anyway, 10 days later, the government called. I hope this is a mistake and that indeed the government has not closely followed the events of the first day of forced detachment since April 3rd, but that from the first day of knowledge of the same to be included in that story. What's important is to point out that Mrs. M.J.P. Forced in the Psychiatric Hospital of Vrapce by the decision of the county court in Zagreb on 7 April 2008, I repeat it is completely incorrect and contrary to the law. And that she was fired by court decision on 11 April 2008 is also incorrect. As for the rest of the story of the health ministry inspection activity that allegedly provided a good basis for possible follow-up, the fact is one. That these actions are again talking about ignoring the law when the State Inspectorate and even later the Medical Chamber determines that the form is not fulfilled and they know that it is illegal beyond that there are no sanctions or anything else. Now, that's the situation, that's the reality, and that's why that kind of situation can happen to us. And finally, given that the personal minister of health and social care determined that the state's protection committees had not met for a long time, he resolved the existing composition and appointed a new one, I hope that at least one conclusion of the four that were written there would not make sense to go against what you're doing. As regards the handling of all these things, the Government of the Republic of Croatia pointed out that the police did not act on the initial call of the doctor of family medicine, but since the lady was to be hospitalized, I repeat, the manual. It's a double criterion again. In one case, he needs a manual, otherwise he doesn't. What is perfectly clear to me is that there are very many irregularities identified, both in a professional way, so equal to what is clearly against the law, and I hope that the conclusions that say exactly what Minister Milinovic says are ready within his jurisdiction to take measures towards all participants to resolve it, that the competent state authorities are initiating proceedings, I suppose that this is what we received in response to the Government and when the commissions were removed that he can then believe that it is not politicizing, that it should be placed on his feet and that it should be passed by law, and I think it is in no way good to assess the conclusion in which this Croatian Parliament is called to call on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to ensure, to act under the Law on the protection of persons with mental disorders. Here's so much on my side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14024	Thank you very much. According to the Rules of Procedure, we have one application for correction of the allegations, the distinguished representative Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14025	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll make the allegations right as a doctor. Col. Ostojić, it is not true that the doctor should not have referred Mrs. Pukanic to the hospital because on the previous report a day before the doctor from Vrapč said no hospitalisation was required. It's about the patient and the diagnosis where the patient's condition can change from minute to minute, not with one day apart. Another incorrect assumption is that the patient was sent to the hospital without an examination. Dear fellow, when a colleague came in and wanted to look at her in the room, there was a bunch of journalists in the room, a bunch of people, and a patient review means taking him down to the dogs and looking at him regardless of her diagnosis. I'm asking you if you would take off your clothes and if the doctor would look at you in front of the press and people, and the doctor couldn't get to the patient, even if she put a stethoscope over her shirt, and she was examined in the ambulance and sent to the hospital in the right place. On the other hand, you act like a doctor, put out a doctor's call and talk about the patient's diagnosis, here you list the psychotic Mrs. Pukanic. Please be nice, psychotic, so I'd sue you if I were her. And the third incorrectly that the government does not state its name, it states initials to protect the woman because the whole of Croatia knows her name and name, which is beyond all human norms of behaviour towards that woman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14026	Thank you, Doctor. In connection with this interpretation, we've received the government's testimony. Does the Government's representative want to further explain his report? Darko Milinovic, Minister of Health and Social Care. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14027	Ladies and gentlemen, honestly I'm going to say here, I was hoping that the SDP... this interpretation will not be because I'm afraid of today's debate here, but the Interpletion on government's work on energy, it's about prices and collecting political points and about it you have both from the right and from the left, and from the middle of this assembly someone say something and there we can collect political points. Interpletion on the work of the Government in the mentioned case and I ask my colleagues as a doctor, and you have already provided some information that should be protected from why Mrs. Pukanic called the police at one point, I ask all those who will discuss this, to try, and the debate is public, to try to concentrate in this debate to mention the name and last name and any information as little as possible. It's my request, my request to the Parliament, because the way you did, that is, I don't think it's good for the integrity of this House, or for the protection of the family that passed their calvary for this reason or for that reason. But I want to welcome here the interest of the Croatian public, journalists, associations, Croatian Helsinki Committee Mr. Banac, Čička, Sarnavka, Mrs. Modric in public words. That public word often becomes a trigger to me as a health minister to think about some of my actions, to possibly reconsider my actions and, if necessary, if the reasons and arguments are valid to change my mind. It's no shame to make a mistake, but it's a shame not to accept one reason if he's true, for a change of opinion. But something I won't let anyone fight for more human rights than me as minister, from my ministry, from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And the SDP will have to... In the '90s, you had, but apparently, an exclusivity in the defense of human rights. [[You don't understand.]] I have no right to you. I don't think there's anything in Croatia either, and we're competing here to protect human rights. It was a time when some let's say they were within the strongest party in Croatia, HDZ who considered NGOs to be some anti-state element to work against this state, but this government, so if you want to, personally, I don't want to wear that cross, and I'm going to be able to intercede with all of you, with the entire Croatian public for the protection of human rights. And that is why I do not allow or accept, I do not allow perhaps a harsh word, but I do not accept that anyone is better... than the Government of the Republic of Croatia, than the coalition partners for the protection of human rights, and now I will say something about everything that you have stated in this impelation. You said it wasn't true, here I'll start by finding that the Zagreb County Court has nothing to do with the forced hospitalisation process. I will also read now why the SDP sought the responsibility of the Minister of Health and Social Care at the first moment, and the solution of each court is public, and the county court has decided to continue forced detention in the process. It's a court document, and you're saying the court didn't take part in it. He must participate. He must participate because a psychiatrist within 70 or when deciding that a person needs hospitalisation, must inform the court about it and he makes a decision on the follow-up, the interruption or possible further hospitalisation. Of course we're going to reject this interpretation, but I can see that the SDP club is very much monitoring the work of the Ministry of Health and Social Care, and that's good, and that's good, and that always keeps me in the ministry from making a mistake, and that's good, and I'm calling for it to be that way. The moment I resolved a state commission that hadn't met for years, that's when the impelation made a request to ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia for what we've already done. But come on, let's say it first, I think that this requirement is to be fulfilled, I've fulfilled it the day before, because I think that the state commission of any, which has not been met for a year or two days, has no reason to exist but has no reason to exist in that... if and a year they haven't been able to meet and discuss the important topics that are in their work. The Ministry of Health and Social Welfare has done everything, but indeed it has entered the fight for the protection of human rights in that case of open heart, very clearly, and you are calling the minister only on the tenth day. Forced hospitalization happened on 10.4. As a minister, I asked for the next day in the morning when I saw in a television way and told that man as a doctor. It was ugly for me to watch handcuffs, but the Department of the Interior said it was all within the law. I'm allowing that maybe it could have been more subtle and it gave extra weight to that complete case. But tell me I haven't heard from you in ten days, which I should have, based on the television footage, and that way of working in the ruling coalition doesn't exist, that I'm pointing my finger at you based on the video and I'm saying it's your fault. And over, no complaints, it's your fault, amen. You told me and pointed out that I dared to go to Sparrow Hospital. It's a visit after a new hospital limit that was planned. And I'll tell you, I was in a dilemma whether to go to the Vrapce hospital that day, would it be politically wise to move away, but I belong to a government that doesn't take away, I belong to a ruling coalition that doesn't take away, and yes, I went there, but I didn't go to the case of Mrs. Pukanic, but we've already talked about programs that are important for the development of that psychiatric institution, and I also praised the truth of the medical staff and nurses for all the good they do for the patients, and the truth is that in that case, Mrs. Pukanic expressed herself favorably, commending the medical staff, excluding those who participated in the forced hospitalisation of Mrs. Pukanic. You said I hadn't been obvious for 10 days, so, of course, on the fourth day, on the first day, I asked the Centre for Social Care to show me the role of the Social Care Center. And when I got that report the same day, so the seventh one started, started a trial that had to be decided on further detention and possible hospitalization in that case. What was I supposed to do? As a minister during court proceedings, you give statements and point your finger at my conviction, you're blood, and you're not guilty, and maybe it's your fault. No, I don't. I was just about to avoid any exposure, any information in the media to be unverified. And the truth is when the County Court made the 11th decision that, that there are no more grounds for forced detention, I called and gave the order to both the State Secretary and the Inspectors to deal with this case very well, do we have to be front-runners in the protection of human rights in that case and in other cases. And when you say that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Health and Social Care has done nothing, then I'll remind you, here's Friday 04. 04th asked by the State Secretary to get a report on the conduct of the Center for Social Care Black-man. Friday the 11th asked for the general medical office of Dr. Lulić for the obvious, the requested indication of the Hospital "The Sparrow" and not to list and all together was the inspection of our inspection on ten occasions. Why on ten occasions? And I'll tell you that. Some institutions with our inspection supervision were affected three or four times precisely by the delicacy of the situation, precisely because of the sensitization of the Croatian public, which I would also like to thank the journalists and the media and associations who dealt with this problem once again, so I will also tell you when I listened to the first draft of emergency medical talks, I ordered the inspection to return, to check the authenticity of the footage again, because I was afraid that someone, and possibly did something outside the law, so that I went public with it, and that the information was not correct. So when you mentioned yesterday's doctor's interview at the municipal state's attorney's office, that you know on what basis, based on the Health and Social Affairs Department's inspection report, and I'm going to say here as a minister, as a member of the government that I'm proud of everything that the inspection has done, and she's been doing beyond her powers. No powers, but out of maybe what she needed. The Health Department's inspection found that two social workers were with a doctor, a doctor of general practice. That's not the domain of the inspection, but she found it. She determined that the doctor gave the manual that she didn't look at the patient, all the things you said. You've read the excellent, inspection report of the Health Department's inspection. She confirmed the inspection that he did not follow this instruction, she found that there was no doctor on the team, she found that a doctor had arrived afterwards, she found that there was an inspection that there was communication between the doctor and emergency medical care, she determined that she was not taken to the hospital "Vinogradska", but to the hospital "Vrapče" and that there was an inspection that there was no error in protocorality since the time that Mrs. Pukanic came to the psychiatric hospital "Vrapče" until her release. But what does that mean? I can't, and no one can't ask or I agree that the health department says the shrink on duty has made a mistake. Possibly, he's the first line of defense, come on, let's say so. Doctor of general practice, I will return to another segment of health care. Doctor of general practice can have a patient who hurts something in his chest and that he is a suspected diagnosis of a heart attack. The first defense dam is an intern specialist who'll say you have a heart attack, you stay in the hospital or you don't, you can go home. The first line of defense said that the doctor of general practice or emergency medical care in her judgment was not wrong. It's possible that the shrink was wrong, but ladies and gentlemen, who's the minister of health and social care to point a finger and say, you know, you didn't get a good look at it, and I don't think the patient should have been forced into custody. I cannot allow myself this exclusiveity and comedy, but I can allow what the law requires, and that is to report it to the Croatian medical chamber which must determine the fact that someone in that chain may have made a mistake on purpose. If someone had no intention of making a false finding, so based on this false finding, let this be not in the area of the work of the Minister of Health and Social Care or the inspection in the domain of the Ministry of Health and Social Care. So all that was done by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. in the domain of the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare, went well with the power to protect patients' rights and to protect human rights. And there are no retreats, and there is no one to be admitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to be a major frontman in that fight. But we're competing here. I'm in. But once again, I don't want to wear any cross for some years when it was thought that associations, certain associations, are against this state. I am proud of everything my ministry has done, what the Government of the Republic of Croatia has done in this case. But I'm proud and I belong to a coalition where there are also national minorities that are an indicator of European orientation and of our party and of this government, even if you want to participate with them in everything I've said. And in the end, I am proud as a citizen, as a Croat. I am proud as a Croat to say because the more proud I am to be a Croat, the better I protect the human rights of all others, and the national minorities, but I am proud to belong to a country where the protection of human rights is high in the list of priorities and I hope that this government, as it has done so far, will give full dignity, full pain in its work in protecting human rights both in this case and in all other cases. Of course it's a public word and I thanked the public, all the journalists, all the TVs, all the citizens who sensitized the Croatian public for this case. And at that moment you mentioned the Thief or the Thief, let's let it be that, with us in Lica, there's a slightly different accent, so when I realized there were violations of the law, I unreservedly asked for the shift of the principal at the Lopac that happened. But there were clear rules of play, and that the Ministry of Health and Social Care's inspection did a good job saying one piece of information from the State's Attorney's Office that said the document from the Health and Social Affairs Department's inspection is a good document for the continued conduct of the State's Attorney's Office. What happened yesterday is just a sign that the Ministry of Health and Social Care, that the Ministry of Home Affairs, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, along with the Croatian public, together with associations, has done everything to protect human rights and in that case and in all other cases, because it is a document based on which yesterday's talks took place and on which other actions will likely take place from the domain of the State's Attorney's Office or the Ministry of the Interior. And that's why I think, apart from what we've accomplished, that the government absolutely needs to reject all the allegations and the untrues of this Interpellation that you've been talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14028	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, the distinguished representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14029	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, my colleagues and my colleagues. In fact, the Interpol was filed by the SDP club on a case that actually showed us or pointed to a few things. First, that there are serious failures in our country to implement the laws that we are adopting here, that unfortunately in our country there are equal and more equal between us and that unfortunately there are other gaps in the functioning of the system, which have actually been opened especially since this case has been very, very media-exposed. In its first statement in the Interpellation Report submitted by the SDP, the Government wrote one of the fundamental principles of the overall action of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is the protection of the human rights of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia and therefore the Government of the Republic of Croatia is doing everything to fully protect the human rights of Ms MJP. In these efforts, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will remain persistent during the past term, as well as in the beginning of this, it has proved countless times as a government that is extremely concerned with the protection of human rights. From a concrete event and from everything that came after it, it has passed, and here it has been since the very beginnings of even more than three months. And maybe someone would say that this isn't really something to discuss anymore. However, given that the Interpletion for the Protection of Human Rights and the Work of the Government is on the protection of human rights, I think you will agree with us at the club when we say that it is a debate on human rights, the implementation of the law on the enforcement of obligations by top state officials and institutions has never really been delayed by the debate and cannot be said to be a passé, and then it is also worth a special emphasis on this occasion and on this Interpellation. The more I remind myself that here we recently adopted a fundamental law on the prohibition of discrimination and we believe that no one in this Chamber wants us to one day determine that this law is not being implemented and that eventually one day we come out with some kind of similar interpretation. Especially when it comes to the protection of fundamental human rights and dignity of those who need our protection in particular, and these are for those with mental disorders. The case that this Interpletion triggered also showed that I would say the same thing as all of our release regulations and policies, strategies, programs that we all bring together, commissions that are founded under the law or because there is someone who thinks that this should be established. Because in fact, one case was sufficiently publicly exposed, so that there was actually negligence and irresponsibility, in this case the government, when it comes to law enforcement. And this case, therefore, when law enforcement took place or if we are to say the conduct of the law or non-compliance by law has actually led to human rights violations and, in this case, illegal accommodation in a psychiatric institution. This case opened up a public debate and issues about what a system of protection is like when it comes to people with mental disorders. The primary Act on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disorders, which among other things regulates the rights of patients located in psychiatric institutions, detention and accommodation procedures, etc. but also regulations the work of the State Commission for the Protection of Persons with Mental Disruptions, as well as the commissions to be established under this law by psychiatric institutions, and they do not have very little tasks, because among other things in the law, it states that these commissions are competent among other things to improve the treatment of persons with mental disorders, to monitor the conduct of procedures prescribed by this law and to propose a psychiatric establishment of measures to remove detected illegalities, to monitor respect for human rights and freedom of dignity of persons with mental disorders, according to their own judgment or to a proposal by a third party to examine individual cases of forced detention or forced accommodation in a psychiatric institution, child accommodation, etc. In addition, what we find particularly important in the club is in the law that the state commission visits at least once every six months without notice of a psychiatric institution to check the conditions and methods of conducting protection and treatment of persons with mental disorders. Professional oversight of the work of the panel in psychiatric institutions is carried out by the state commission and once a year the committees report on their work by the Minister of Health. Whether it was the state commission or the other committees that worked or didn't seem that for many years in this country it didn't matter much, and in the real sea we can finally tell a variety of committees who would think exactly about this commission and then it turned out as he was going. And then suddenly we find that there are some important committees that are legally founded and prescribed we don't actually have. At its meeting on 2.11. last year, the government adopted the National Programme for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights and so on in time. Technical Governments. It should be mentioned here that Croatia did not have a National Programme for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights until then, because if you remember especially colleagues and colleagues, you who were in the previous assembly, one such programme, which was addressed in late 2004, had had severe criticism in this House by all and had been withdrawn. Never after that has the government referred a new national programme to the procedure but we do not know why the government adopted a national programme at its 2.11. session without the programme being adopted in this Assembly and having been at the debate in this House. And the national programme reads: "Although the Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disturbation is prescribed to establish a State Commission for the Protection of Persons with Mental Disruptions, the body has in practice not yet been brought to life. As soon as possible, the composition of the State Commission for the Protection of Persons with Mental Disabilities should be revised, its work formalised and a system of supervision of the work of the Commission should be established in order to ensure continuity. The work of the commission should include persons with mental disorders who are in psychiatric treatment", etc., the truth says the deadline for implementation is the end of June 2008. In response to the government's interpretation, it said that the personal health and social care minister argued that the State Commission had not met for a long period of time to resolve the existing composition and appointed a new composition. True, I must remind myself because it was publicly spoken. A few days before that, in one of his statements, the minister said that the commissions were actually the cornerstone of failure and only the commission was resolved, appointed a new one just over a month after the affair broke out according to the date with the solution. So much for consistency and efficiency when it comes to this particular case. This case has also raised other issues that have been discussed on the parliamentary committees. I've already said these are the questions of the person and the protection of the right people with mental disorders. They are in a potentially or really very sensitive and vulnerable state, and as such deserve to be recognized and protected by society. Therefore, it is necessary not only that there is an appropriate legal framework but that this framework should be applied consistently. When I first said that in this society there are those equal and those equal to us this case has actually shown that there are holes, literally holes in law enforcement, but it also raises the question whether those holes in law enforcement are worth some and most of them are not. If they're worth it to some or individuals, I'm asking if there was a part of the abuse of the institutions of this country by some individuals who, because of their position and possibly the power that comes out of that position, could have allowed themselves to do so. Just so you pick up the phone and someone based on that conversation puts them in a psychiatric facility. If there is one such case, it is terrifying and it speaks to how our society works and how ridiculous the provision of Article 14. A constitution that says we're all equal before the law. And how many such cases are we actually wondering who he is, have he ever questioned individual cases of forced detention or housing in a psychiatric institution, how many our citizens and whom they could address. In a similar way, how many were deprived of their business abilities, lost property, inheritance, especially when it comes to some of our senior citizens? Who is it, is anyone if the commission isn't and isn't because it hasn't worked and asked for answers? Looks like no one and we at the SDP club are expecting answers from this government. Finally, this case has raised an even wider question, what is the general situation in our psychiatric institutions humane, organisational, housing versus users. The Thieves and you mentioned this case in a way they were directly encouraged by it perhaps for me and the excessive media exposure of this case but then they came forward and showed us in fact the state of affairs in this particular institution was and what actually happens when there is no effective permanent control of the institutions by the state in this case of the Ministry of Health. And as long as the public doesn't get state reports in all such institutions, we'll all have the right to suspect that the situation is no better in other similar institutions. My colleagues and colleagues, we in the SDP don't ask much for this interpretation. We're just asking the government to do its job responsibly. That, of course, includes respect, law enforcement, policies, strategies, programs that this House or Government has brought itself. And we're deeply convinced that it's not too much of a request because that's the only way we're going to solve any possible cases. And since you are also in that opening part that I have read that in both the past term and this term, you are particularly concerned about the protection of human rights. On behalf of the SDP Club to show that as a government and as a party, the coalition in power at least that how would you like to show that at least partly you worry about the protection of human rights then we invite you to finally hold a meeting of the Parliament, among other things, to discuss and a report by the Ombudsman for 2007 for example. The Attorney General is one of the most important levers of human rights protection in our country, and that is precisely those of the citizens who feel that their rights have been denied or violated by the state institutions and that would be among other things one of the contributions to respecting your human rights in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14030	Thank you very much. It's next in front of the IDS club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. To form a commission to find him? He won't. Let's move on. The HDZ representative's club, distinguished representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14031	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State. The Croatian Democratic Community's club discussed the interpretation in question, that is, the interpretation of the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the role of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in law enforcement and the exercise of the rule of law, and the protection of human rights and human dignity as the highest values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. I purposely read her full name and took the following views about her. First, the interpretation is completely unfounded. Secondly, it does not have an actual, constitutional and legal foothold and, as such, it is indeed an attempt at cheap politicisation and is its sole purpose. This interpretation should be rejected as well as all the conclusions proposed by it, and in a concrete, factual and legal situation, so the Government of the Republic of Croatia as a whole and the restoring ministries acted in accordance with constitutional and legal powers, respecting the full trinity of the authorities, and maximum protection of human rights and human dignity, patients, as the highest values of constitutional order. Therefore, the Minister of Health and Social Care is timely and in accordance with his legal powers and I purposely repeat that term, in accordance with my legal powers, and precisely with the aim of finding answers to all the questions raised in the specific situation in terms of the protection of the patient, the protection of her rights, and the rights of her family and her underage child. First of all, by referring to inspection supervision that shed light on all the controversial facts in the emerging situation. In this way, some of the mistakes that occurred during the disputed departure of the patient were indicated or enlightened, in terms of the implementation or literal implementation of the Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disorders. In this regard, the Ministry itself also delivered the report to the Croatian State Attorney's Office, and on the results and that, we had some opportunities to hear this report in the debates so far. It is also very important to point out that the personal minister of health and social care, and since it was established that the State Commission, therefore the State Commission for the Protection of Persons with Mental Disturbation, had not met for a long period of time, and therefore had not been able to resolve the State Commission’s intervention, and had appointed a new composition of the State Commission for the Protection of the Rights of Persons with Mental Disorders. It is also very important to point out that, following the submission of the report by the Ministry of Health and Social Care, a comprehensive debate has also been carried out by the competent working bodies of this High House of the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, both the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and the Committee on Health and Social Care following the analysis of the report in question and the examination of all relevant facts in the very procedure which really did not raise a lot of questions, issues in terms of responsibility, neither the Government of the Republic of Croatia nor the relevant ministries. So this really isn't about failure or late action in what sense would violate citizens' trust in the work of state institutions. It should also be pointed out that the public was well aware, so in detail of all the details of the case in question, sometimes in an inappropriate way precisely in terms of the protection of human rights, family dignity and underage persons. Furthermore, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Health and Social Care also produced and forwarded reports to the Municipal State Attorney's Office in Zagreb, and the Ministry of Health and Social Care also provided the report to NGOs. I think it is very important to point out that fact, therefore to NGOs when they asked for it, of course, to the extent that it guarantees the protection of the confidentiality of information, but also to the dignity and rights of the patient and her family. It is very important to note when we are discussing exactly this and this kind of interpretation that professionally requested and professional supervision of the actions of healthcare professionals to whom it must be preceded, and just such supervision must be preceded in order to establish in a legitimate and professional manner, i.e. establish irregularities in professional work, in order to then insist on responsibilities and sanctions. To insist on responsibilities and sanctions, and without the procedure previously carried out this way, I think it is pointless to discuss it in this place, and in his address, the resolution minister said everything. It's final. In this very unpleasant situation, the government has also insisted on implementing the principle of human rights rather than vice versa. Through its ministries in this situation, the government has established all the essential facts for the legal solution and this case, so, in that sense or in the context of the Croatian Parliament, indeed, this and such a well-conceived interpretation should be rejected as well as the proposed conclusions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14032	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, the esteemed representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14033	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, the honourable representatives of the government. A formal occasion for this interpretation is one case. It is a case which is in many ways paradigmtic for the state of Croatia in general and especially when it comes to the state of its health system and if you want a legal and police case. It is if you have insight into all the documentation that we members of the Assembly Health Committee have had, indeed, a monstrous case of which a well-intentioned man's blood in the veins is iced. That document has been placed with a code of secrecy for no real reason. There's nothing there that the papers haven't published. There's nothing out there that would humiliate or in any way endanger the rights of people mentioned. But let's skip those details that might be similar. This case has shown a naked case disintegrated to those methods that are hidden but most dangerous. If I wanted to sublime everyone into one sentence, it might sound pathetic but I would say I would not give us a dear God for any of us to experience what Mrs. Pukanić had experienced and what was being prepared for her. The fact is that this case is more than any other showing how fatal but hidden can be a shrew of private interests and systems. How is it possible, however, if you have good friends, good relationships, if you are influential, if you keep some people valued in control of the system. I'll repeat what I said in front of the press. If you look, if you look at this chronology, it all fits so that this whole case starts the moment the documents came out that some actors of this story didn't want to make public. Those documents are killing a lot of people. I'm not talking about them. It is about documents published in one week last fall. There's a lot of people who know what this is about. But let's get back to the responsibility of the system. I've had three occasions to listen to Minister Milinovic on this subject. For the first time on the Committee on Health, for the second time on the Committee on Human Rights and for the third time today. And I can tell you that differences are very important. The first time Professor Hebrang, the chairman of our committee, called on him and the secretary of state, on the other hand, when he saw the ruling majority he was quite stingy but relieved. It's kind of stingy in words. There was no failure of the health system. Eventually, we can discuss whether the doctor did the right thing by issuing the order without seeing the patient. A day later, one or two at the meeting of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities when the minister faced the fact that not only the members of the Health Committee but also representatives of NGOs, police representatives, the State Attorney's Office, all the defenders in the Republic of Croatia, and then we heard a slightly different story. Then, among other things, it was said that there were some failures but that the ministry had done everything in its power to see and report them. You heard a step further today. Why? Because in the meantime, we're smarter for these reactions that came from the State's Attorney's Office, from the police hearings, so they were suddenly found, and the tapes on which the emergency calls were recorded and so on. Who knows what other version we'll hear. But I'll warn you of another matter. Mrs. Pukanic was trying to take away her business ability, put her in a psychiatric clinic where there was no supervision of the health ministry for 10 years, lock the doors behind her and turn her into a plant. It's a terrible situation. Once you're locked behind that door, you don't exist as a person anymore. What interests us is how many such people in the Republic of Croatia ended up in closed institutions? How many people who have been deprived of their professional capacity by court decisions are at the request of a welfare center locked up in some places of psychiatric clinic that no one can reach. And let us not forget that wives are regular guardians in these cases. How many of those older people who have disappeared from society because of someone's private interactions and it's not once we've read in the papers, life contracts, life support. It was all there. The explicit question to the secretary of state, Ms Nikolic and Minister Milinovic, is the answer we received: "We gave it to journalists. Why don't you read the paper?" "We are not obliged to inform you." Is that the government's position? Is this the attitude of civil servants, state officials towards the Croatian Parliament, towards the dignity of the people elected here in the elections? How dare the people who live live live with the sweat of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia say something like that? First and foremost, I don't know or can't tell you, but I'll let you know when I get that information. To this day and it's been two months, none of us have that data. Can I say it again? Please the Ministry of Health and Social Care to brief us as soon as possible, how many patients in psychiatric institutions in the Republic of Croatia are without their business skills? I won't say it again. What is very important to say here to mention, I think counterpart Tomljanovic mentioned the ministry's reports. I'm sorry, I didn't see any. There's a whole series of reports, notes, inspections from various committees, inspections, there's not a single report from the ministry. So there is no single document on this case signed by either Minister Milinovic, or any state secretary in his ministry. I think it's "Catch 22." What reports the minister sent to the State's Attorney's office on behalf of the ministry, I don't know, but what we saw, and we should have seen, everything didn't cover that kind of report. Mrs. Pukanic has been tried three times in three days forcibly to be taken to a psychiatric facility. Three times in three days. It was post-poto, at any cost, which cost to cost, we don't ask, just take her away. Why not Vinogradsk? It's literally three minutes' walk from the entrance she lives in. You know why not in Vinogradsk? Because the woman was a day before in Vinograd, where a medical consil was led by the head of the clinic, so they watched her for hours and determined that there were no conditions for her forced hospitalization, that the woman should go home, calm down and leave her alone because she was in an elevated degree. Of course she won't take her to Vinograd. Why? Because in half an hour we'd let her go home, but she needs to be taken to Sparrow where there's no history, where there's no map, where there's nothing, where everything has to start all over again, and where the court witch finally came to find out that there's no basis together and that a woman can go home, or that she has to go home, there's a judicial solution. But then what happens? The head of the hospital doesn't want to let the lady go for more than an hour and a half, her lawyer came for her on official duty, the president of the Croatian Helsinki Committee, but is stalling and waiting. What's he waiting for? To have someone else come take her. And the other one came, but she wouldn't go with him. As soon as she saw the press, as soon as she saw the lawyer and the people of the NGOs as if the sun had dawned on her. He's in a safe house today. Today it is in association with mothers who are victims of violence and with their children, with people who have gone through very serious trauma and function fantasticly under these circumstances. Fantastic as a person, as a warm, dear person who knows about these children, has no problem with other people. What happened overnight? What happened? And in such limited conditions she felt her freedom. Put yourself in that picture, put yourself in that situation, let's wake up people, let's get out of here. How would you react if someone came to pick you up at home, during lunch they wanted to take you to the hospital forcibly. And let's ask one more question. While there was no failure of the medical system, let me ask Minister Milinovic how it is possible that a woman on November 2nd, excuse me on October 2, 2007 in front of the doctors of the emergency medical care and tells the police to open the safe, there is a drug in it and that no one until the moment of her forced hospitalisation has looked at no blood at all, nor have others found to see if the behaviour that caused some assessments may have been conditional or by the action of intoxicating drugs, and perhaps by an abstinence crisis. How is that possible? So you say you're in a lot of pain, that your arm hurts, you go to the doctor, within 10 minutes, you're being sent to the hospital for blood and urine extraction, and since then, from October 2nd to January 3, 2008, it's been three times in the hospital for a total of two and a few months. So what were they doing in that hospital? All in all, it would be much better if in situations like this, because no society is ideal, it is not, will never be known to recognize and recognize its weaknesses because of itself and its children who tomorrow may come into a similar situation in front of this or that part of that system. We're all a minority every day in front of a counter, in front of a government obligation, in front of a state body, to figure out where we're wrong and that this is no longer happening to us, to strengthen the system so that it's not part of the system, but the excess, and as long as we don't get information about how many people who cheat in psychiatric institutions without legal personality, I won't believe this is an excess. The Croatian People's Party club supports the SDP's interpretation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14034	Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14035	Thank you very much. Well, in his speech of incorrect allegations, my colleague, I quote, "it was wrong to put on the government's report a code of secrecy," because I quote, "there's nothing there that the paper didn't show." Yeah, but it's not the government's fault, it's the newspaper. The government has placed a code of secrecy to protect the personal data of the lady in question, and the newspaper has published it, so it is not the government that made the mistake, but the newspaper that published it, my colleague. He says I listened to Minister Milinovic three times, and he spoke differently. I listened to him nine times and he always said the same thing. First, that he protected human rights. Secondly, that in time he formed and sent a medical inspection and a third, that there was no evidence of the medical service's guilt except perhaps at primary health care level and he always said the same thing, colleague. Third, the minister didn't sign a report for the board. Well, I'm not like the chairman of the board or looking for a minister's report, I asked him to send his medical records, and he did it. If we were looking for a minister's report, I'm sure he'd get it. Therefore, do not take this serious situation with false allegations even more seriously.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14036	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14037	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, colleague Hebrang has violated Article 2 of Article 209. In the first part of his statement, the Rules of Procedure, namely, he was to correct the false statement. An incorrect quote is a quote that someone said, I never mentioned government reports because it doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14038	I'm sorry, he corrected an incorrect quote, thank you very much, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. We're moving on with the club debate. On behalf of the HSS Club, Honorable Representative Stanko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14039	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, respected representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Peasant Party Club also analysed the content of the interpretation and found that the interpretation of the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia concerning the implementation of the Law on the exercise of the rule of law and the protection of human rights and dignity as the highest values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia submitted a number of representatives in the Croatian Parliament all in accordance with Article 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. We are convinced that we MPs in the Croatian Parliament are also making a contribution to the development of democracy, and we are contributing to preventing non-democratic phenomena and violations of fundamental human rights and freedoms, and that is why we are discussing these topics of the day to this House. Today, we are discussing a timely reaction by the Government of the Republic of Croatia or by some of its members, i.e. its late reaction and the basis of this possibly delayed response, it is a question of democracy and the rule of law that stands in the interpretation. The report and the debate carried out on the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities heard representatives of competent institutions. Reports, i.e. information submitted by the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Health, the State's Attorney's Office as well as lawyers for gender equality, the Public Advocate and other participants who participated in the debate. This in itself states that the institutions of the company are involved in the resolution of that case. A sense of insecurity of citizens due to the possible abuse of state institutions, due to inefficiencies, cover-up, or failure to comply with the law as stated in the interpretation, is possible, but why judge it on only one case. Whether global decisions can be made and generalised on this individual case, i.e. this case. We believe not. The competent institutions of society have been initiated, involved in solving the situation and I believe largely resolved this emerging situation and the complicated situation. In an analysis of the course of events, we can see that there were no protocol errors, that the competent services identified both certain conditions and took the basis of this established state of action and procedures. We believe that the competent ministry, within its jurisdiction, has taken all the necessary activities and carried out the necessary actions to resolve the situation. We at the HSS Club believe that we should not politicise this situation, this case, but rather hope that there will be no such cases in the future, that certain lessons have been learned and that I believe that the competent ministries and services will be successful and that there will be no such interpretations in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14040	Thank you. And on behalf of the SDSS Club, Honorable Representative Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14041	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I was talking about this case on two parent committees, and I'm not on the third because I'm not a member. The first is the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the second is the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. I didn't think I was going to speak at the plenary session because this important topic came much later in the debate than it was supposed to, and it came to a crowd together with other interpretations and thus fell into the context of debates that don't give room to take what's behind this seriously enough. Neither in the debate on the Committee on Internal Policy nor in the debate on the Committee on Human Rights, I do not want to talk about the Health Committee because there was something different there, it was not a question whether the minister was guilty or not but it was a question of what actually happened. Of course it is the first duty of the minister to try to protect those with whom he is working, but of course it is immediately the next duty of the minister to see what really happened and to say that the minister was trying to see what really happened and that in his reactions he evaluated what was being learned. But I'd go back to the metrics. The measure of things for me has three aspects or three dimensions, so we're not in a position to judge what's right or wrong, but we can really accept the measure of things, it's our obligation in front of those who chose us and in front of that book we swore upon. We didn't hold her in our hands, but we had her in our head when we said that word, "I swear." The first question is the privacy of every person and family that is assumed to be the best things that are of interest to that person and to that family, and we know that when it comes to families, that it is not always there. That in some families people enrich each other and bring together the wealth they create, whether biologically, socially, economically, or morally. In this case, there are many indications that a number of reasons have occurred that this family's privacy is not only affected by the interest of certain organizations, and the least bodies of this House, committee or anyone else, but unfortunately that something happened within the family itself, which led to that privacy being violated and that one of the members of this family is more powerless, with less social impact, more vulnerable, with a history of medical history, resulting in the situation of being a victim. And that's right. It's so in public perception and it's so in the perception of most of us sitting here. And quite incomprehensible that at least one of these committees, which was required by the Committee on Human Rights to react by obligation, by parenthood, to protect the one who found himself in a vulnerable situation or to stand by the one who is in a situation that may be a victim of circumstances, and may be a victim of the system. A colleague who spoke before me said we learned some lessons. I believe we are, I just don't know how big and I don't know who everything is. A colleague also said that it was prevented something that could have happened worse than what happened, and I agree with that, but it happened thanks to the intervention of civil society and thanks to part of the reactions of this Parliament, and thanks to the part of the media of which was a competitive part. That's right. When I say competitively, I don't mean competitive in the best sense of that word, because I also understand it as part of a private story, if I can speak so freely. However, had it not been for those institutions, had it not been for sure, including the reactions of this House, I am not sure that the conclusion of a colleague who spoke before me, the esteemed representative of the HSS, would have made such a conclusion. The second question is, of course, the system. We listened, especially when it comes to the police that the system acted in accordance with procedures and rules of conduct, and it's probably in the good part of the thing. However, when it comes to social services and medical services, there are serious indications that this was not the case. There really are. ... that it's the wrong system, but it can mean that some people inside that system don't do the job the way they're supposed to do it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In these things we know very well that people make up important tissues of the system and the important will of the system and the important system of decision-making system and there are indeed indications here, I would not quote anyone, and at least here present representatives of the ministry who are in this regard, and were making statements that prevented them from seeing that certain elements of that system and some of the persons responsible within that system did not act in accordance with the rules. The third thing I'd like to say is about the media itself and our relationship with the media. Who has the fear of the media? Who is not able to tell and face that side of the media story that is not the best, is not the brightest, when it can even have extraordinary biography in this regard? A representative at the Croatian Parliament? A representative at the Croatian Parliament? I'm sure you don't. Political parties that may need individual media for their political interests or for their political match? I hope not. Because if that were the case, then the fundamental values of the Constitution, the fundamental respect for human rights, would immediately be thrown under the feet. So, as far as I'm concerned, the manipulation of the media that we can manipulate because we have political powers or the fear of certain media because one way or another, we might be able to create a picture of ourselves, our stranger or anyone else, that makes me equal and the same. Maybe the other one and worse. And attempts to spread fear from certain media in the political sphere because someone is going to talk about a topic is that it concerns me as being done by a particular political party or by the government itself. So those who have power. And in this case, there are indications for all three of these things I've been talking about. I'm not saying that I have any evidence in this regard, because this is not a matter of proof, but to indicate that our society and our public and our institutions are in such a context, it seems more than certain to me. And that is why, regardless of what I think, this Interpletion itself after all this time and in this context cannot bring, and probably the Proposer did not intend to disrupt the functioning of the system or to discourage the action of Minister Milinovic in what should be his ministerial duties, but certainly reminds us of what our obligations and exercises are, if nothing else our beliefs, part of our actions and part of our conscience in these three things. There's a colleague and a colleague, I certainly didn't say anything new in this thing, and even less cleverly, but I had an obligation to say it, I had an obligation to say it because it didn't seem natural to talk on boards, and we're silent in a plenary debate. And on the other hand, if anyone has immunity in this country, we have it. If anyone is protected from what they say here, they are representatives of the Croatian Parliament. I suggest that without fear we say what we think we can say, that we should say, and that we do not agree that anyone on any side, any influence other than political beliefs, we have what we have, the constitution we have sworn to, we act and speak from this place. And there were too many indications that something like that was going to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14042	Thank you very much. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Yeah, finally. Dear Representative Ranko Ostojić. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14043	All of you together once again, ladies and gentlemen. I thank you for your patience and for having more concentration to participate in this debate at the moment. In any case, first of all, I would comment only on the position of the Club of Representatives of the HSS, I would point out three details with which I agree completely and I think it is a very important way and approach as they have done it, only I would interpret it a little differently. And that means the institutions get involved in this case. Yes, from the very beginning, and they are the reason why the interpretation is here today, that is, because of the gaps that occurred before the very events of these very state institutions, that is the problem. Secondly, every case, no matter how unique, personal, etc. That is precisely why he deserves the attention and protection of the parliamentarians and this House of Highs, for the very reason that this protection is missing from those who should do so regularly. I also find that the protocoral errors were not and so I can agree with my colleague, because we also claim that they were actually harsh violations of the law, and not any protocoral errors, and also about the finding that institutions are doing everything to solve this case that I will later appear, when we get to one point that actually shows who is the only one at this moment actually working to solve this case. What is also important to me in the performance of Mr. Minister who defended the government's position, I am first interested in why not all the things you said were written about, I was personally interested in this part of which you point out that you are Croat, that you are proud, etc., because I really do not see in what sense a correlation would be, or a link to guarantee that you are not willing to violate human rights, because I do not think that it is appropriate to bring it up in this way in general. I can respect it in any case and your pride equally by pointing out that you are a Croat, but it really does not guarantee that it will be human rights to anyone respected, and in particular that at no time have you downloaded the meaning and provided information that something that is justified, written and repeated once again by your institutions, this is what your institutions wrote. You're just saying that it's not true, or that they're not arguments, or that they're not things that actually prove the truth of what we're looking for to interpret. Secondly, about the examination of a doctor's colleague, you said she was insulting the doctor's profession, etc. The first question is why Mirjana Jusup Pukanic was to be examined, given that she was examined and that doctors show paper about her being reviewed. In this it is a basic problem, which is that Mirjana Jusup Pukanic is being treated, I have just quoted to you the Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disorders, who is a person with serious mental disorders. Not only did the court find that it was not a person with severe mental disorders, but the question arises at all who could in this way actually approach the forced detention of a person who does not endanger himself or anyone else. That's the first thing. Secondly, putting in handcuffs is certainly not a part of me I'm hoping medical treatment should be according to anyone if it's not necessary. And the law doesn't allow it. The doctor can't do that. If a police officer had said, eventually, step away from the press, which he did, and when they refuse his orders, he has the right to act. But of course he didn't dare, because it was much simpler for Mrs. Pukanic to put in handcuffs, than for dozens of journalists, with all the risks behind him to experience for that reason, he retreated. As for the psychotic Mirjana Yusup Pukanić, two things. First, Mrs. Jusup Pukanic was publicly on TV, and in writing she agreed that all the information on her treatment should be public. It's the first data that's very important in the treatment of names and everything else. That's what the Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disturbation is just saying. Only with her consent can it be done. And she's finally been offered the fact that she's being treated like a mental patient and we're actually listening here all the time. No one's found out yet that she's a person with severe mental disorders. Let us read again the law to distinguish people with mental disorders and individuals with severe mental disorders. And then you know who's being forced to stay. And now around the psychotic Mirjana, I'm reading: "The official notes on the 01 tip have been made. 04. In 2008, in which originally Mrs Mirjana Jusup Pukanic requested intervention of police officers in 12 and 29 for reasons referred to the threat of her husband breaking her up, i.e. she is from emergency medical staff who requested assistance in 15 and 13 in order to help the psychotic Mirjana Jusup Pukanic. A note was drawn up on the established course of intervention. Report delivered by the MUP." So it wouldn't turn out that I'm quoting something that wasn't delivered to me here in the Parliament. And there's no secret unclassified, faxed. What is further important, the claim that, on the basis of the Health Ministry's inspection supervision, there has been an activity of the State's attorney's office, it is not true, or the truth is that this inspection has been requested as one of the documents. But again, after receiving a report from the Ministry of Health and Social Care on 22 April 2008 that I am not reading the articles now, a police report from the Zagreb Police Administration of the Criminal Police Department was received on 30 April "Right after receiving the above report, the municipal state attorney's office asked the regular authorities to carry out additional tests because the results of the criminal processing were not sufficient for a professional and conscious assessment of the existence of suspicion of a possible criminal offence.". So much for whose initiative of 18 April the state's attorney's office was fully involved, and they're the ones who initiated the actions and ordered who had to do what. As for that point that was around Mrs. Mirjana Jusup Pukanic, which is her forced hospitalization. I am sorry that in the Croatian Parliament I must repeat the provisions of the law on who makes the decision on forced hospitalisation and what is the role of the court. Mr. Minister, at no point did I say that the court was not involved. I'm just talking about the fact that it's not good for the government's response to the signature to say that Mrs. M.J.P. Forced in the Psychiatric Hospital of Vrapce by the decision of the County Court in Zagreb since 7 April 2008. That is not true because it is contrary to the Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disturbation. Obviously I have to quote the law because you don't understand me, then we'll pass it anyway. So when it refuses forced accommodation, any forced detention and coercion of adult persons with mental impediments without their consent or children and minors with mental disorders, persons deprived of their legal capacity are subject to judicial supervision according to the procedure governed by this law. So the judicial oversight is prescribed in the coerced detention procedure of the Forced Restraint Decision is made by a psychiatrist. Before that, the Wolf Hospital itself. Therefore, this is not about any trio of power but about the non-compliance with the Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disturbation. It's not good to mention the Thief or the Thief because if it wasn't again as in this case of journalists, I repeat, there hasn't been a regular review there for seven years. Also, as far as the authenticity of the footage is concerned, I must be honest that I'm a little surprised, Mr. Secretary, that you've been listening to these videos, or I believe in your good intentions to get involved entirely in this case, but it's interesting, it seemed to me somehow or I've heard it wrong because, among other things, the State's Attorney's office has determined, among other things, that they are not the same and that they differ from some previously obtained video conversations. I hope we're not in a situation where the footage was in unauthorized hands and I hope it really doesn't turn into a much bigger problem after this debate or statement. Also, your indication that you're spotless and from day one I'll only use what you said and that's proof that it's not true means you've been on since the first day because I'll remind you that you said that you saw it after the footage of the arrest on TV then you must know that only 8 April after Mr. Banca's appearance and the publication of the videos on TV means that after four days, only then came the situation that you then reacted. As for the centre and supervision of the 4th and 5.4th, it is also stated in the text of the documentation itself, so I will quote that first of all there was a criticism that you did not declare and advertise in public and I must say that only after 12.4. when a very ugly critical text came out in the morning list 13.4. 10 days after the forced departure of Mrs Pukanic, you made a statement to the "Evening List" on the receipt of medical reports on Mrs Pukanic's stay at the Psychiatric Hospital of Vrapce and that you requested an indication of the primary protection and emergency care doctor. What matters doesn't change the view that it took you ten days to do it. And as for the Centre for Social Work, they have, in the end, concluded that social workers have not done anything wrong, and this is the end of the matter. And as for those allegations of yours, I tried to avoid it, I didn't mention it in the initial debate, but how you put yourself in the first plan of actually defending this interpretation by thinking that it was really her focus on you even though I really can't understand it that you can take it so personally. What is most important is I ask you one more time and let everyone know since you spoke about the fact that the County Court in Zagreb has made a decision to continue the forced detention of Mrs. Jusup Pukanic Mirjana in the Psychiatric Hospital of Vrapce and also to stop the fact that Mrs. Pukanic is no longer in a phase in which forced treatment is needed. You have repeated this here today, but nowhere, means neither in the original nor in any other case the County Court in Zagreb has decided, given its situation, to continue, nowhere has it stated that Ms. Pukanic's coercion continues, nor that the circumstances continue to apply that Mrs. Pukanic is no longer in a phase in which forced treatment is needed. You said the same thing in the journal. And the text reads, you can download it at www: "As the entire public has already been informed of the fact that Ms. Mirjana Jusup Pukanic is being detained in a psychiatric institution, the public is being informed of the outcome of the proceedings before this court. The County Court in Zagreb is in an extraparate case deciding on the forced detention and accommodation of Mrs Mirjana Jusup Pukanic in accordance with Article 33. The Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disturbation after the debate was held on 11 April 2008 made a decision which was fired from the Psychiatric Hospital of Vrapce.". So none of your findings are in the court's statement. But I didn't think it was that important, but you offered me, since you were constantly trying to create the impression that you've been involved in this story since day one that I'm not quoting other things to you when you said what you were saying, who was saying? It's also incorrect what you stated that I said you dared go to Sparrow. That's not true. I didn't use that word. After all, you can check or, what's important I just said that by going to Vrapce you did the following situation that you considered it appropriate to visit a psychiatric institution there and that I can't figure out how you could express your satisfaction with that situation that was good there Mrs. Pukanic. You did it again today. I ask you again where do you get the right to speak for her? I don't know when she authorized you to speak for her whether she was satisfied at the hospital or not. I don't know who can be satisfied when it closes like that. What's important, Mr. Minister, is also important. You said, of course, that you would reject the interpretation. No matter what, the MPs will do it, not you. I know that you believe in strength and agreement and the rest and the representative of the HDZ Club said that, but please, because I deeply believe that there is and people say all of this I always deeply hope in this Croatian Parliament that we will come to a situation that and what you think intimately or when you recognize that something is true you can raise your hand even though it is not so decided by your party. But well, either way I'm gonna repeat it isn't your right to talk about you rejecting the impellation. Only the Croatian Parliament can do that, not you. I also have to say in the end that it's signifying here, and normally that's how it is, we tried to make fun of it a little bit. We tried to make fun of the name of the interpretation itself. She's not for no reason written like that. Because I claim that there is no rule of law and no protection of human rights when the Government of the Republic of Croatia violates the laws and justice of the state institution and, despite the fact that they have committed violations and illegalities. What matters when it's said that it's unfounded, factual, legal and so forth. This is all an integral part of our work and work here and that it was allegedly handled in accordance with constitutional and legal powers, we have not heard any arguments that would disprove what is stated in the paper. Also in due time and in accordance with the legal powers, no argument written inside has been killed anywhere. What is important is even the situation in which the commission that this case has not been the case since 1997 is supposed to be resolved for non-compliance. To read the provisions of the law of what the commission should do and that its primary role is to protect human rights and dignity and that this case is primarily with him, not that they did not work. Mr. Minister, as I recall, I said they weren't necessary. And now we're putting them in a position where they've become very current in the situation that they've been removed without having to determine before if they've ever done this case and if we could have given it to them? Could they at least give a grade on this situation? Who's right? The delivery of reports to NGOs is indeed important for the reasons why they first offered the story. The fact is that there is good co-operation with the government sector and the truth is that their insistence has certainly led to significant shifts in this situation. What is more important, though, is what does this report say? Because that's what's important and that means what specific situations? I'm listening to Dr Hebrang who says Minister Milinovic always said the same thing. And that he always said he was a primary-protective doctor. Well, if that's true, and the opposite is the finding, so I'm not sure if I'm right when I'm talking about ignoring some of the facts that are listed. What is important and why this interpretation in some way and the call not to ignore it in its name and reason, which is we cannot ignore the application of a force that was not appropriate, was not justified and was not legal. There was no investigation into whether she was correct, legitimate? There was no witness hearing. The facts have not been established. There was no examination. Reports were also ignored before that. Nobody's talking about it today. There's also been a pattern for ten years. Nobody talks about him. We're calming down that this paper exists, that the health minister is betraying it for no reason and that nothing is going on because it's even established the inspection report but there's no sanctions. Nothing happened to anyone that didn't fill it. As I can see, even in this situation here, we're all at peace with that fact that the ambulance director says they don't use it at all. Why it's important, too, so it can't happen that we're declaring someone a severe mental patient when he's not. It can't happen when someone has papers that they're not sick. That the doctor ignores it and takes her to another hospital. It can't be that a phone call can be ordered to the police. What matters is I claim to be the end, not to bother you anymore, I think it's a lot to show for me good will. I will only call on this occasion everything and that is that you should apologize to Mrs Mirjana Pukanic for her unlawful deprivement of freedom. I suppose they won't ask for compensation but I'm sure at least in that part you'll respect the Constitution that says that in such cases the state has to apologize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14044	Thank you. Does a government official want to take a word for it? Yeah. Dear Darko, I apologize. We have one correction before that. And this is the esteemed representative of Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14045	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I must again correct my colleague who states that the doctor should not have examined the patient because it had previously been examined. I've already told you my colleague. It's a diagnosis where not only from a minute but in a second it can change her mental state and the patient had to be examined in this case. No one's found out she's a person with mental disorders. Oh, dear fellow, she's a patient. She's been examined by doctors and she has her own diagnosis that I won't talk about. Third quote. The court didn't make a decision to force her to be hospitalized. The court has made a decision. That's what you were talking about. And a fourth. It is incorrect that Mr Hebrang and Minister Milinovic blamed the primary health care doctor. Unless you're putting yourself in the role of that judge that you're going to blame, and it's not really her fault. And yet, after all that you've said here today, no one can resist this impression that you're abusing this case for your own political promotion.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14046	Time. Thank you. Dear Darko Milinovic, Minister of Health and Social Care, finally on behalf of the government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14047	So I have to express my regret that I guessed at the beginning of this debate that we use one difficult case of a family for political purposes. Not entering the SDP club would have preferred much if he had discussed the problem on behalf of the SDP club, because the most talk was about medicine today, respected counterparts Ostojic and Miranda Mrsic. I'm asking you to explain to your clubmate that no diagnosis has been diagnosed, so psychiatry is not for centuries. She can be brought in now, and in an hour she can have another diagnosis. And that is why it is difficult for you to discuss this subject with the honourable representative Ostojić. That you won't have a chance to turn around and give some new moments. In this case, I'll answer that now. You know, in sports terms, it's often me and the prime minister mention it when you throw the ball and you love to score in the last second, and don't give God more to Croatia as against Turkey. But when you mentioned the video exactly the Ministry of Health and Social Care detected that it wasn't all recorded and that's why I said already I'm going to mention again that we were in certain institutions three or four times and when we realized that the image of those recordings, and not the original, has not recorded all the conversations we re-sent the inspection back and re-scanned and got the indication that it was in the papers because of the age of the apparatus not all of them recorded. You see, you are not so lucky that you will be able to transfer the ball to the Ministry of Health and Social Care and to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, because we just detected it, and that's why I said one sentence, but I didn't want to go into particulars, but you took my word for it, that we were actually dealing with the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare, maybe some of the problems that don't fall under our jurisdiction. But I'm proud that we first detected it, so you won't have the opportunity to transfer the ball that maybe the ministry took part in those games. Why am I unhappy? It's about the interpretation debate. Because it was really used to collect political points, and it can't be on this case and you say that I said that no commissions are necessary. Watch out for those lies now! There is talk of reforming the health system and I say unnecessary is a commission that will prepare for reforming the health system I trust in 320 employees of the Ministry of Health and Social Care to prepare a reform, which will present this to the social partners, who will present it to all interested and in this sense I say we will not have a commission. You're saying now that I said you don't need a commission, a state commission or what the law requires, which is what the law requires. Well, I said we'd reject this interpretation and reject it. I'm a member of the government, the executive government, and on behalf of that government, on behalf of that executive authority, I said that we would reject that impelation. I have been vice-president of the Parliament for four years and I know what the role of the executive authority is and what the role of the representatives in the Croatian Parliament is, by the way, I have confidence in the ruling coalition and somehow I feel that they will reject your impelation, and I have rejected it on behalf of the executive authority, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I said in my original performance that it wasn't me, and I don't belong to that ruling coalition pointing at the finger, and you don't have the right to say a word right now, you're guilty. I didn't tell anyone in this process that he was guilty. But I agree with my colleague Pupovac and I think it's an extraordinary debate. I think it was an extraordinary debate, not raising anyone. It doesn't matter that he's a member of the ruling coalition that he found out as well as I have found that it's possible that parts of the system didn't work and that there are indications that parts of the system could have been abused and misused by someone. But I'm asking all health care professionals and here in the Parliament that on a case-by-case basis we don't characterise a complete, dear friends, complete system. I object and oppose all those who, in one case, will see how it ends and I am looking like all of us here, as the entire Croatian public of all the relevant institutions of this country to answer whether someone has abused the system. Dear Representative Beus said the minister did not answer us why no one was concerned with the question when Mrs Pukanic said what was in the safe and why he did not open a safe. So what should the Minister of Health and Social Care answer? Which should be answered by the Ministry of Health and Social Services. So this should be answered by some other institutions of this country, not Minister Milinović and not the Ministry of Health and Social Care, and therefore when we talk about the poor health system, I as Minister of Health and Social Care cannot accept the fact that anyone in Croatia is saying that the health system is bad, we already have a World Health Organization report that says that the health system in Croatia works well. I invite you on Wednesday at 10 a.m. if I'm not mistaken for promoting the book of one study in 2007, which, now listen, which estimates that those who use the health care system, so patients, so patients evaluate. When I first opened that paper and read it, I thought it was some party report, then for party purposes, for the purpose of prom, for the purpose of the election campaign, because I was surprised, and then proud to be part of that system. 63% of patients are careful to evaluate this hospital system with an excellent five. You'll say it's not scientific, but it is. Indeed on Wednesday at 10 I will have a few words about the health system and everything we have done for the health system in these 3 and 4 months, respectively. The promotion's at 1:00. Excuse me. Okay. Finally, when you read the MUP report, it was not classified as a secret, but I would take it as a right not to mention the details, regardless of any document perhaps for technical reasons someone forgot to put it in secret, but I would take the right to do so both as a citizen and as a doctor not to read the details of this document which are closely related to Mrs Pukanic's health condition. You once again referred to it, you once again read about the possible health condition of Mrs. Pukanic at that time, and therefore, I will say I apologize to this at the Pukanic family if, with someone's discussion in this House, it is mentioned with their intimacy, and therefore they may experience some moments again. I apologize to them, but you know who I still want to apologize to in the end. Mr. Beus, you said that people who cheat in psychiatric institutions, that they cheat in psychiatric institutions, I want to apologize for that word on your behalf, these are patients who seek help and do not cheat in psychiatric institutions, but are there for treatment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14048	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Ranko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14049	Correction of the wrong allegation is that the Ministry of Health, or its institutions, has detected and established the inaccuracy of the footage. Namely, I would like to say that given this report that I quoted earlier, I will still rather trust the State Attorney's Office as a competent institution that has been trained and under the law has the right to be able to detect and analyse and determine whether or not you are false or not, that is to say, it is obvious that someone has taken over the information that doesn't belong to him under the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14050	Thank you. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when we get the necessary conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14051	Secondly, Interpol on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in connection with the role of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in implementing the Law on the exercise of the rule of law and the protection of human rights and dignity as the highest values of the Constitutional Order of the Republic of Croatia. Transporters: members of the SDP Representatives Club. The debate is closed. The government proposed to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion: Interpelation on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is rejected regarding the role of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in implementing the Law on the exercise of the rule of law and the protection of human rights and human dignity as the highest values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. I am voting on the proposal for a finalisation of the Government. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The government's proposal for a conclusion was accepted by 79 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 45 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14052	Moving to point 19. - Proposal for a decision on the establishment of an investigation committee for the determination of facts relating to the recovery (decontamination) of asbestos waste from the circle of the plant Salonit d.d. Vranium in bankruptcy. Proposer: members of the SDP representative club. The proposal for a decision is submitted on the basis of Articles 5 and 6. The law on investigative committees. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Honorable representative Mirela Holy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14053	Thank you, Vice President. The SDP’s representatives’ club submitted a request for the establishment of the Research Commission for the determination of facts relating to the recovery, i.e. decontamination of asbestos waste from the Salonit d.d. factory circle. in Vranjica, which is in bankruptcy because we estimate that all the events so far related to this case, so-called. The resolutions suggest that the public will never know what actually happened and what is still going on with the resolution of asbestos from the circle of Salonita unless such a constituency is formed. We believe that it is in the very public interest to establish the truth in this case, and we hope that this is also in the interest of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the restoring Ministry and the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund. That is why we believe that the parties participating in the government will also recognise this interest and therefore support this request. Refusal of supporting this request will mean unambiguous confirmation for us that in the process of resuscitating asbestos waste from the circle of the Salonite factory there have been major failures, cover-ups, malversions, and even violations of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. Article 69. We are afraid that the way the thematic session of the Environment Protection Committee on asbestos management in the Republic of Croatia has been called and conceived in Croatia has only confirmed the suspicion that the ruling HDZ is systematically covering up all events related to the resolution of asbestos waste from the Salonite. Although the task of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and all its officials and officials is to protect the public interest, we fear that the resolution of the Salonite and all the late resolution authorities show that the government has rejected this fundamental function and has not protected the public interest, the inhabitants of Vranjica and the surrounding area but its own interest, which is to remain in power. Due to the democratic standards achieved in countries where we are seeking as a transitional state, we would undoubtedly result not only in the resignations of resolute state officials and officials, but also in the fall of the entire government because there are many indications that in this case the Government of the Republic of Croatia, by not warning the public of the danger of contamination and inhaling extremely dangerous and carcinogenic asbestos particles, is likely to endanger the life and health of the local population. This is our starting point, and this is the key reason why we're looking for an investigative commission to determine whether our suspicions are founded or not. In the document that was delivered to you, you could read and learn about what we are based on our doubts and so on the request for the establishment of this investigation committee. I would like to remind you that the measurements carried out by Ant d.o.o. for the purpose of the Salonite plant's recovery programme and waste disposal site were carried out by Ant d.o.o. in December 2006 and in January and February 2007 indicated a significant excess of permitted values and concentrations of asbestos particles in the air in two places in Vranjica, where the plant Salonit d.d. in bankruptcy. For reasons that have not been explained so far, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction has decided to ignore these results as incorrect and not respecting the principle of caution has not informed the public, especially the local population of these extremely disturbing results. After the recovery, i.e. the decontamination of asbestos waste from the circle of the plant Salonit d.d. was launched in July 2007. in bankruptcy in the implementation of Cian d.o.o. from Split, the IGH company that has developed the Salonite Rehabilitation Programme and the waste dump site of Mravinčka Coffee, warned the competent ministry of the possibility that the recovery would not be implemented in accordance with the programme, but the competent ministry has again, for yet unconfirmed reasons, done nothing this time, and has warned the population of the extremely dangerous asbestos particles inhaling. I stress that at that time there were many indications and even photo and video material that unequivocally indicated that the resolution was not implemented in accordance with the regulations of the Republic of Croatia and international conventions. We cannot believe that the competent ministry, especially environmental protection and environmental protection inspections, were not familiar with these doubts and that they did not receive these materials because we in the SDP knew about these doubts and received these materials, and we also informed the public about them. So if the ministry didn't even know about these doubts before, and it had to be known after the media had warned about it, it must have been familiar with these doubts. And I repeat, it didn't react. This Regulation shall enter The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia says: Everyone has the right to a healthy life. The state provides conditions for a healthy environment. As part of its powers and activities, everyone has particular concern to protect human health, nature, and the human environment. Many elements of the behaviour of competent officials and officials from the public authority, particularly officials or officials from the Ministry of Environmental Protection and the Environmental and Energy Efficiency Fund, point to a reasonable doubt that this article of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in the event of the recovery or decontamination of asbestos waste from the circle of the "Solonit" factory was broken in bankruptcy. We suspect that both the officials and officials of the ministry and the fund have violated the entire series of international conventions that the Republic of Croatia has ratified and thus made an integral part of its legislation, in particular the Convention on the Safe Use of asbestos and the Convention on Access to Information, Public Participation in Decision-making and Access to Justice in Environmental Affairs. There is a reasonable doubt that the right to a healthy environment and the inhabitants of Vranjica and the wider surrounding areas have been compromised by their actions, i.e. by their failure to act, and thus potentially endangering the health and life of the local population. Due to a reasonable doubt of non-compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia as well as with international conventions by the competent authorities, we believe that there is a public interest in the need to establish an investigative commission on this case. The confidence of citizens and citizens in the institutions of the system is crucial to the public interest that is seriously undermined by the conduct of public authorities. The aim of this investigation committee is to establish all relevant facts related to the process of recovery of asbestos waste from the "Salonite" circle from the very beginning. In other words, since the preparation and launch of the public tender for the preparation of the recovery plan of the factory "Salonit" from Vranjica and the disposal of Mravinčka kava as so-called "Salonit". the black dots, the selection of plan makers, i.e. the recovery programme and the resolution contractors according to the recovery programme, the implementation of asbestos waste recovery from the "Salonite" factory circle and its transport to the location of the Antavina coffee, emission measurement and concentration of asbestos particles within and outside the factory circle, and the conduct and non-action of public authorities in this case. The Commission must establish all the circumstances that preceded the launch of a public tender for the preparation of the plan, i.e. the programme of the "Salonita" rehabilitation and the disposal of Mravinčka kava, is the reason why the selection of Croatia's construction institute offers in the contest for the preparation of these black dots' resolution programmes, as well as whether the resolution programme mentioned is fully in line with all the legal and sublaw regulations of the Republic of Croatia. The commission must further investigate why the company "Cian" was selected for the rehabilitation of the "Salonita" and the "Cian" coffee company from Split, how much money was paid to the company "Cyan" for the recovery process, how the rehabilitation was carried out, or whether all the laws of the Republic of Croatia and the Convention on Safe Use of asbestos were respected in the process of resuscitation of asbestos. It is also necessary to determine how asbestos waste was transported to a location called Antavination Coffee, which is not a prescribed location for the disposal of hazardous waste. The investigation must show the value of asbestos particles emissions in the air measured before, during and after the process of recovery in consultation with independent experts from the country and abroad, to determine what the limit values of asbestos particles emissions were recommended within the factory and outside the factory, in which the competent authorities and criminally responsible for non-compliance with the "Salonita" recovery procedure for non-informing and non-informing the public due to suspicion of overcoming the emission limit values, asbestos particles which may have both lasting and fatal consequences for human health and environmental health. I want to point out here that the SDP has nothing to do with the resolution of the so-called so-called SDP. black dots, so there's nothing against the recovery of asbestos waste from the Vranjica Salonita or Pakplobesta in the Tablets. We are aware, however, that the problem of asbestos and Salonita is a problem that did not arise overnight, but rather a problem that has lasted for decades, more specifically since 1921, when the production of asbestos cement products started at the Salonita. The "Salonite" unfortunately has, in addition to the dot of the environmental black spot, the stigma of a criminally corrupt privatisation story from the 1990s when Croatia was a real eldorado for different criminals hidden under cover of so-called "Croat". Business people. The "Salonite" weighed in the privatisation process came into the majority ownership of Joza Curkovic, who in 1997 re-launched the production of asbestos products in a factory with 450 employees. Jozo Curkovic ignored his obligations and, as an employer, did not educate workers that improper treatment of asbestos caused serious health problems especially damage to the respiratory system and did not provide a health safe place for workers to press charges for damage to their health due to treatment with cancerous asbestos. In order to avoid the collection of dues on the basis of judgments in favour of workers, Jozo Curkovic founded a new company, a new "Salonite", and after the company came into bankruptcy, none of the workers who were sick could collect the amounts awarded. In 2000 and 2004, the State Attorney's Office launched an investigation against Joza Curkovic and other suspects on the basis of two claims for abuse of the position and illegal wealth of 100 million kuna. The indictment became final in 2005 and since then the majority owner of "Salonita" has been on the run. Although recently caught in Bosnia and Herzegovina because of dual citizenship, such a state as its citizen will not hand it over to the Republic of Croatia and will probably never be prosecuted for this case. Despite the good intentions of the state to finally solve the problem of asbestos waste from the "Salonite" factory, we must stress that it is absurd that the funds of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund are financed by the resources paid by environmental pollutants and environmental users, and that is almost all of us who have a motor vehicle, financing the recovery of the space of the company, which, although in bankruptcy, is privately owned. Even more so, the funds of the state fund finance the recovery of a company that is obliged as an environmental pollutant to charge the fund with fees. The possibility of a recovery by sitting on soon very valuable "Salonita" properties located along the coast of the sea has not been spoken at all. In addition, it is also a disputed place to drive to and reportedly deposited asbestos waste from the Salonita so-called "Salonita". Ants that are not intended for disposal or even temporarily such waste. We would like to stress that the town of Solin as the owner of the location of Mravinčka Coffee, by decision of the city council in March 2004, banned "Salonita" from the disposal of carcinogenic asbestos waste to this location because it poses a danger to the health of people living nearby. We also warn of the fact that the Council of Experts of the International Labour Organisation has repeatedly warned of an extremely unacceptable situation regarding the treatment of asbestos in the Republic of Croatia and concluded that the Convention on Safe Treatment of Asbesto is being violated in Croatia. The law and sub-legislative acts finally respecting that convention were adopted only in 2007, but the competent authorities are still violating the Convention on Safe Treatment of asbestos, more specifically Article 17 when the Fund engages factory workers in the operations of the rehabilitation of asbestos waste and Salonita. I stress that although the Council of Experts has offered technical assistance from its experts due to the degree of pollution to Croatian institutions in order to repair the situation of the Ministry of Labour and Entrepreneurship three times for unknown reasons, it has refused that technical assistance. Instead, although both the Ministry of Labour and Entrepreneurship and the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare announced that the deadline was extended until December 2005 at the latest by the end of 2004 when any use and marketing of asbestos-containing products was definitely prohibited. However, the bankruptcy manager of the Salonitas launched the opposite of the law the production of products containing crizityl in the Salonitas which, with the knowledge of all the competent inspections, continued for two more years even though the product was produced which could not come out of the factory circle, a product that could not be distributed, which could not be traded or implanted. It is unnecessary to say the asbestos waste situation in Salonita in comparison to 2003, with the knowledge of all competent institutions that did not move their fingers to change this absurd and even schizophrenic situation. Score. Not the creation of new huge amounts of extremely dangerous asbestos waste, which is now being remedied because of the failure of the competent authorities of the administration by econaknad taxpayers, almost all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Contrary to previous announcements that the European Union pre-accession funds, ISPA Fund, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction, will be used in February 2006 to announce a public tender for the resolution of these black points, which was opened exclusively for companies registered in the Republic of Croatia. The public has never been explained why the Ministry gave up the use of European financial resources on the burden of econaknad taxpayers. At the public competition, ZOPUK awarded a job of drawing up a plan, i.e. a programme for the rehabilitation of the Salonites and the ants' coffees to the Croatian Institute of Construction as the most favourable bidder. The said work programme, although asbestos is classified as dangerous waste, provides information that we have the recovery of asbestos waste and Salonites and ants' coffee as municipal waste. The rescue job was assigned to the company "CIAN" d.o.o. from Split, which, according to the IGH information, did not even respect a treatment programme which treated carcinogenic asbestos as municipal waste, but also carried this carcinogenic substance in a rigid and dusty state with a bulldozer of a vehicle on open trucks and drove to the location of an antary coffee where asbestos spread out, broke out and covered with ordinary land. The company "CIAN" as the holder of the recovery business did not own construction machinery or trucks to carry out these operations, which is why the recovery used the means of transport of private entrepreneurs who also do not hold any authorisation for transport, management, supply or supply of hazardous waste. I am taking this opportunity to remind myself that the Club of Representatives and Representatives of the SDP supported the HDZ's request, which requested the establishment of the Research Commission on the Shipyard "Viktor Lenac", and in this regard we express hope that the ruling would not go below that reached democratic standard, i.e. to support this request. I hope that you will recognize the public interest in the investigation of this whole case in order to determine the true truth and all relevant facts regarding this case, and that you will support the decision to set up an investigative committee to determine the facts regarding the recovery, decontamination of asbestos waste from the circle of the plant "Salonit" d.d. The return to bankruptcy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14054	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Before the debate begins, I want to know that the clubs have agreed with each other that the debate is only being held by the representatives of the clubs and we have three registered clubs. The first one is the esteemed Mariana Petir on behalf of the HSS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14055	Dear Mr. Vice President, MPs and MPs. We at HSS are extremely sensitive when it comes to environmental protection issues which I think we have shown not only in recent years how much democracy is recorded by Croatia, but also for more than 100 years how many parties there are and we can say that we are the only real green party in Croatia based on the principles and programmes we represent. Especially when environmental issues affect human health certainly need to be paid special attention, and recently we have shown, for example, the INA of the refinery in Sisak that, with the participation of the public, it is possible to launch action, that it is possible to act on the institutions of the state authorities and that it is possible to influence the problem. Today in Sisak, the situation is better, not certainly as we would have liked, but the fact that the government intervened and respected our demands. And we in Sisak have seen people die and it's a bitter experience. The fact that the situation around "Salonite" Vranac, and the record that may not yet be known enough and investigated is not significantly better. But what's also a fact, and it's kept quiet, is that "The Salonite" has been in place for 80 years, that this environmental pollution problem with asbestos fibers is the result of the long-term work of the factory and that it certainly had an impact on both the environment and human health and that we in the HSS club, or representatives who sat here before me and before many of us warned, were asking representative questions on the subject, not because they were malicious, but because living with these people on the ground, they were seeing problems that were really very difficult and worrying. All of these activities have had an impact on the government of the Republic of Croatia, in its conclusion of 10 November 2006, tasked the Ministry of Environmental Protection to begin the first phase of the rehabilitation of "Salonite" and ants' coffees, and also tasked the Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund to provide funds for the recovery. In November 2006, the Fund asked the company "IGH" for the programme of work on the management of asbestos-cemental waste for the first phase of recovery, because the final report on the recovery programme "IGH" has not yet been completed, and we know from the reports provided by the Ministry of Environmental Protection on my request to the Assembly Committee for Environmental Protection, that "IGH" has received the job through the invitation to tender, and therefore the question which should be explored by the investigative commission becomes groundless because it has also been discussed at the the the thematic session clearly stands in the reports. Based on this programme, the Fund ordered the construction of an implementation project from the company "Construktor" and the revision of the project from the Faculty of Civil Engineering in Split, and on the basis of the tenders collected and the procedure carried out under the Public Procurement Act for the contractors of the asbestos cement waste of the former factory "Salonit" the company "Cian" d.o.o. from Split, which has a license for the management of hazardous waste, so that is a question that you are referring to as the Commission of Investigation completely without purpose. Also, in 2007, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a package of laws concerning the issue of sick workers and their care, and this is about the Law on compulsory health supervision of workers professionally exposed to asbestos, the Law on conditions for obtaining the right to the age pension of workers of professionally exposed asbestos and the Law on the compensation of workers of professional asbestos. The Commission was also formed, which received 700 requests from workers who were suffering from occupational diseases due to asbestos exposure, and since very few requests were resolved, it was and was one of the reasons why we, as the Parliamentary Committee, suggested that the whole thing be accelerated because these workers do not have time to wait. This was necessary to mention the truths that are being silenced, and also, Mr Vice President, I referred immediately after the session of the Parliamentary Committee on Environmental Protection to all the relevant ministries and president of the Committee of Conclusions. The conclusions were voted unanimously and by the authorities and opposition, and I do not know if there is that possibility, but I would like all representatives in the Croatian Parliament to have these conclusions, because since all representatives in the Committee on the Environment supported them, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia through its resolutions would be obliged to execute them, it would be good for the rest of the representatives to get it. Together, we agreed that it was necessary to call the thematic session on asbestos in view of the very worrying information that we received from the media from the workers themselves from NGOs. At a session of the Assembly Committee held on 13 May this year, we agreed that asbestos would be discussed on May 26th as soon as we received reports from the resolution ministries, because we agreed that these reports should be the basis for discussion and that it would take us at least a week to inform NGOs, the professional institutions we wanted to listen to on that committee, as well as to get the measurements of the company ANT, as well as the companies from Kaštel who also carried out those measurements at the Salonita. So, on May 13th, we agreed that there would be a thematic session on asbestos and that it would be held on May 26th and behold, on May 16th, the SDP submitted a request for the establishment of the Research Commission. I don't know who can conclude that it is well-intentioned to help resolve the situation, dialogue, concerns about the situation we have with asbestos and which is worrying. It is our impression that this whole thing was for the purpose of play and politicisation, because if we agreed on May 13th that we would have a thematic session on asbestos and we agreed together to invite this session and suggestions from SDP representatives were also respected, I do not understand where the need for a return was created only three days later to seek the establishment of an investigative commission if it is not something else. All the questions you asked in the request for an investigative committee we answered, not as representatives but as our Assembly board, this record is a little bit deeper and it was received by SDP representatives who could read it, we adopted it unanimously at the session of the Assembly Committee. What is interesting on page 15 stands, Mr Franić therefore a member of the SDP expressed concern that there are people in the Republic of Croatia today who suffer from asbestos without being diagnosed. It therefore proposes to establish an investigative parliamentary commission in this context with a view to identifying the truthfulness of the data presented by associations on a large number of asbestos patients who have not been officially diagnosed with this disease. At the end of the debate, and the debate is therefore summed up on 23 pages of this report. As chairman of the board, I have proposed conclusions both Mr Franic and other representatives of the SDP supported these conclusions and did not insist on such a proposal, so these are more surprised now by this re-insistence. I must also say that at the meeting were representatives of the Ministry of Environment, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Economy, Environment Fund, Institute of Medical Research, Croatian Institute of Labour Medicine, County Offices for Environmental Protection of Split-Dalmatia and Dubrovnik-Neretva County, Company "APO",... company "Atest and Protection" Kaštel Novi, company "CIAN" Split, and representatives of the Association "Barbarinac" from Vranjica, Association of Asbesto victims "Ploče", Association "Beautiful Our" Ploče, Association of Asbestos and Commissioner of the Croatian Association of Workers' Union of Dalmatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The session lasted more than four hours and was seriously debated on all aspects, and I hope now that I have so much time to read the conclusions that were made at that session unanimously, so they were supported by both opposition and the ruling coalition. 1.It is the responsibility of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction to hire an authorised laboratory from the Republic of Croatia or abroad within the scope of its work which will carry out measurements of the number of asbestos particles in the area of Solin and the town of Ploč. 2. It is the responsibility of the Ministry of Environmental Protection of Spatial Planning and Construction to carry out the emergency and professional rehabilitation of the factory "Salonit" in Vranjic, the storage site "Mravinjčka kava", and the sports recreation centre in Vranjica and the report taken by the Environmental Protection Committee of the Croatian Parliament within 6 months. 3. It is the responsibility of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction to establish data on the quantity of asbestos delayed and scattered in various areas and locations of the municipality of Solin and the city of Ploč and to propose a programme for their recovery. 4. It is up to the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund to launch a systematic preventive campaign on asbestos harmfulness in cooperation with NGOs and professional institutions on the basis of their programmes. 5. The Ministry of Health and Social Care is tasked with monitoring the state of pain caused by asbestos and professional asbestos disease as special indicators in registers; 6. The Commission is in charge of addressing the compensation claims of workers suffering from occupational diseases due to asbestos exposure and finds a model to speed up the settlement of claims for compensation and to carry out an analysis of existing laws and their applicability and to report to the Environment Protection Committee of the Croatian Parliament. The same commission is also tasked with reporting its work to the Environment Protection Committee every six months. Some of these points, of course, are not difficult to conclude, perhaps crossing the frameworks of the Environment Protection Committee. I also specifically consulted with my colleague Hebrang, who led the Health Committee, and I told him that it was important to propose such conclusions and that he would also agree as chairman of the Committee where part of the conclusions would also belong. So, this whole story about the investigative committee seems to have some other background and not to establish a real state, because all the answers you've asked as a question in the request for an investigative committee can be found here through this record that is truly complete and comprehensive to see that there are no hidden thoughts, nothing that would in any way question the conduct of any state institutions or bad intentions of any of the representatives or associations or institutes who have been invited in any way wanted to deceive or create any benefit that is illegal. What I can say and what's in the record, everyone who's been invited has responded except IGH, we pointed out that, we have written it down, and we have not received an explanation why they did not respond to our session. However, since all those who have been involved in the whole story in any way or interested in any point of view have come to believe that the thematic session of the Assembly Committee on Environmental Protection has provided answers to the questions raised, it has been held in good interest and with the aim of addressing the problem of emergency resolution of the asbestos of polluted areas in accordance with the European Union's standards. And secondly, resolving asbestos issues because the issue deserves an urgent action. I can say that I am proud that after ten years in the Croatian Parliament again, this issue was discussed on a committee, and this was pointed out by Mr. Grgo Mandic, who is the president of the Association of Asbestosis. I hope that through this debate we are together with all the competent institutions and NGOs that make up a really important part of the public as well as with the unions and all the people in the Vranjic area and in the Ploč area who have created conditions for faster, more urgent action on the resolution of the whole situation, or the whole problem. The fact is that there is a long problem and that it cannot be solved overnight and it would be bad for it to be solved back to application and to cause other problems. All these arguments that I have made are in favour of the fact that this proposal for a decision to set up an investigative committee is not really a proposal that is well-intentioned and which should be supported, just because I repeat it was a clear agreement by all the representatives to discuss the asbestos problem together and I believed that we would do so and that in a dialogueal sense we would contribute to resolving the problem. However, it is obvious that SDP colleagues are aimed at politicising rather than solving the problem, and therefore the HSS club will not support this proposal to set up an investigative commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14056	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Mirela Holy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14057	Well, there would actually be a lot to argue about, but what particularly bothered me in this statement is that fellow SDP counterparts did not ask for a request to set up an investigative commission at the meeting of the thematic one. It's just not true. I wasn't at the board meeting, but they were my party colleagues, and in the end, even Mrs. Marijana Petir said earlier that Mr. Franic had asked to establish an investigative commission. And that's why I don't understand why it didn't come to the conclusion, because I don't think it's in contradiction with what was discussed at the panel's thematic session.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14058	Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the distinguished representative Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14059	My colleague Holly hurt her rules of procedure. She didn't listen very carefully to what I said. So, fellow Franic is within his scope. ... This Regulation shall enter into force on the [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So, in the course of his discussion, Franic suggested what I read, so a proposal for an investigative commission. After the debate was concluded, I proposed conclusions and there were no additional proposals on these findings in terms of forming an investigative committee of my colleague. And you're right, you weren't in the session, so don't say anything that isn't true.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14060	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, Honorable Representative Daniel Mondekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14061	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. So far we have heard from the proposing and already on behalf of the club that the problem of Vranjica indeed, the general problem of asbestos has been bothering the small town of Vranjic for decades. With the creation of a democratic modern Republic of Croatia, Vranjica citizens have experienced several more injustices instead of the rule of law. The first one was certainly tied to the Salonite, a corruption affair from the 1990s, as it is said to be a heavy 100 million kuna where we had the rightful conviction. The other which the associations themselves call and citizens have been calling for the last year and a half, two say the ecological affair. Why? Because it is almost impossible in the 21st century that Minister of Health Ljubic will allow the production of carcinogenic poison even though it has been known for 50 years that he is carcinogenic. It's impossible that the recovery was done the way it was done. I speak firsthand because I've been following that rescue for two days. It is also extremely embarrassing what happened and it is impossible for certain reports and opinions such as "Ant's" survey on particles in the air to be almost ignored. I'm going to hold this debate from a completely different angle of view. We are representatives who have been elected by citizens to represent them, to take care of citizens regardless of those from Zagreb, Split, Sisak, Osijek, Vukovar, Vranjica. And that's why I'm just inviting you to Vranjic and the Ants to visit, I've been very many times, the last time a month ago. To meet Mr. Grg in Vranjic, Barba Grg as they call him, a gentleman who is a single father of three children and seriously ill and who has asked the public not only ruling and politicians but a few questions to the public to tell him who is responsible for the deaths of his family members and who will take care of his children when he is gone. So a single father of three. When you're in Vranjica I certainly recommend that you walk to the parish office, a very interesting place because two last parishioners if I'm not mistaken even three kept regular records of so-called. "return disease" in which you will see the names and last names of everyone who has suffered from pulmonary, similar pulmonary diseases in the last 50 years. It's there if I'm not mistaken, the late priest stopped at 200 and some names. I also recommend that you pass through town, talk a little bit to people who suffer from pulmonary disease, who say to themselves that they have cemented lungs and also talk when I get the first water in my lungs, I'm going to have 13 to 16 months to live. That's terrible to listen to. Also in that same Vranjica you will find asbestos outside the circle of the plant Salonite. You will find him at the playground where the children were playing on the playground and other children are jumping, jumping on small hills that are almost entirely asbestos and where parents are running panicically and stripping and begging not to play in those places. Such problems should be discussed from such an angle of view rather than from a remote, dry, constituencies and statistics. As far as the resolution itself is concerned, representatives of the International Labour Organisation have indeed spoken for several years, warned that we are in violation of the asbestos Convention. For the salon, they themselves have been quoted as saying that "they are horrified by the look of the factory circle", means the Salonite factory and that the Republic of Croatia belongs to the 26 industrial most polluted countries in the world. As for the very recovery that began some year after 11 p.m., it was actually loaded into trucks that were said to have been special trucks. Believe me, they weren't. It's a good thing they had a move on them and some company. It was covered with canvas, a vehicle was thrown two kilometers away and thrown into the Ants. When you travel to Split if someone doesn't know where there's a nice cross standing when you land in Split below there's tons and tons of that asbestos. There that asbestos was thrown, watered, buried. The workers who did this had protection departments, and already 5 meters away where all these asbestos dust lifts were not protected. Yes, the first weekend, the first two days part of the Antvinca coffee was surrounded by wire and were German shepherds there. If you do not know it is above the spring of the Jadro River, which feeds the drinking water of Solin, Kaštel, Vranjic himself, the town of Split and towards Omis. So how many hundreds of thousands of people who are threatened in this way? First of all, it's saddening that we're actually discussing it right now. This was said when the media squeezed. Citizens' associations have talked about it, taken pictures, recorded for several years. There were even arrests of civilian activists when they came to oppose such a way of carrying out the rescue. As for the board, she was, of course, a minister, they were representatives of companies that carried out rehabilitation, supervision, medics and so on. That's where I'm going to highlight a few interesting things from the board. When asked how much the recovery costs, a colleague named Petyr probably remembers, we didn't get the answer. How much does a recovery cost specifically? The Minister made it clear to us then and told us that even after that, in another so-called. The circle of rehabilitation is being rehabilitated. Antsa coffee after all the asbestos has been settled, now it will be rehabilitated and watch to legalize this. The Republic of Croatia paid its money for a rather suspicious recovery that seemed to put asbestos in a place that was completely unprepared for this kind of hazardous waste. As far as I'm concerned, there's also been some kind of ignoring and reports of asbestos in the air. And not to say that before there was an ignoring of the sentence of a doctor who said that children in Vranjic had less lung capacity and that they had problems with their lungs since birth. When associations warned on several occasions, they warned that this asbestos could move down and enter the Jadro River which is a source of drinking water for most of Dalmatia and is ignored. So I'm going to say one thing now, so I'm going to show us to all MPs for the Vranjics. Would you like to now, think about it, buy a house and live in it across the street from the grounds of the Salonita factory where all the huge asbestos waste was. And breathe that air even though the government says everything's fine. Would you take your family and children to the spring of the Jadro River where you have 30 meters of air lines from you all these, tons and tons of asbestos. And would you take a glass, grab that water and drink it? And in the end, would you let your children go play on that playground and jump around in this huge asbestos waste that's still in that city? I think the MPs should ask themselves these questions because they have asked themselves the Vranjics, and they have also asked the public. And then make a decision on the investigation committee. That's why the Representatives' Club asked for an investigative commission. I will repeat once again that it is necessary to investigate if the investigative commission forms the reasons why the Croatian Institute of Construction was chosen? Is the plan, the programme for the rehabilitation of the salon and the disposal of the Antavination Coffee in accordance with international conventions and all the regulations of law and sublaw? So if Ants is an illegal dump, it doesn't seem to be. So this issue needs to be discussed by the committee. Why is the company "Cian" selected for the resolution contractor if there is evidence of photographic and video evidence that it was not exactly a special transport for dangerous waste such as asbestos. Has the recovery procedure been carried out properly? A very important issue and perhaps two very important for the citizens and the towns of Split and Solin and Kaštel, which values of asbestos particles emissions in the air measured before, during and after recovery procedures, and in the end why the competent authorities and the responsible authorities did not inform the public in accordance with the precautionary principle of possible air pollution by carcinogenic asbestos particles. I initially said that we MPs were elected to this duty by the citizens to take care of the citizens and if we consider this duty then we would vote for this commission to investigate and to answer these questions. If, in some cases, the ruling majority thinks they should not, then citizens will be left without part of the response, but there are colleagues and colleagues a few facts that will continue to be present. Not only will the citizens be left without an answer. If at this point we end the debate in the Assembly on asbestos it will not remove asbestos from the retail yard and drinking water in Dalmatia. That asbestos will remain there for decades long after this debate is over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14062	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, the last one is distinguished representative Tomislav Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14063	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. In front of us is SDP's proposal for a Decision establishing an investigative committee to determine the facts relating to the recovery, decontamination of asbestos waste from the “Salonit” d.d. factory circle. in bankruptcy. At the beginning of its presentation on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, I note that we will not support this SDP proposal. It is indisputable that asbestos has proved to be a great evil for human health. Unfortunately, however, we have taken this problem seriously only in recent years, and the SDP seems to me today, but it also seems to me not for reasons to solve this problem, but for reasons to politicise. For hundreds of years, asbestos has been used worldwide as a material of extremely good properties and broad use opportunities, allowing a large number of people to be employed. Unfortunately, though, he was also filling his lungs for the health of dangerous fibers. The “Salonite” factory in Vranjica began in 1923. That asbestos particles were dangerous for our health only in the 1980s, perhaps thanks to the kind of masterpiece of the documentary film by the author Branko Lendić, who showed the haze in which the Vranjcans have lived for decades. But in 2006, the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided to end the continued use of asbestos and asbestos products and to launch the resolution of the most endangered areas. The Government's conclusion of November 10, 2006 tasked the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction to begin the first phase of rehabilitation within the “Salonit” d.d. factory circle. Vranjic in bankruptcy and “Mravina coffee”. In the same conclusion, the government has tasked the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund with providing funds for the management of asbestos waste. In November 2006, the Fund asked the Croatian Institute of Construction for a proposal for a programme to handle asbestos cement waste for the first phase of recovery. Based on this programme of works, the Fund ordered the construction of an implementation project from “Constructor” and the revision of the project from the Faculty of Civil Engineering of the University of Split. After the tenders were collected and the procedure carried out in accordance with the Public Procurement Act for the contractor of asbestos cement waste recovery plant “Salonit” d.d. The company “Cyan” from Split, which has a license to manage hazardous waste, has been selected. I repeat, so a company that has a license to handle dangerous waste. To solve asbestos problems caused by production in the plant “Salonit” d.d. It is planned to spend a total of 72 million kuna at the locations “Mravinačka kava”, a football field in Vranjica and a circle of the factory. Work on the rehabilitations of the “Salonite” and “Mravinica Coffee” factory began on 4 December 2006 after the agreement of the town of Solin was obtained. In addition to the company “Cyan” as the business holder, the Fund also concluded contracts with the company “Apo” from Zagreb for professional supervision, and with the company “Mohus” d.o.o. from Split for construction control of works. During the implementation of the rescue, the concentration of asbestos particles in the air for which the company “Atest” and “Protect” d.o.o. was constantly measured. from Kaštel Novi, who has the authority to measure in the workplace and has a trained employee to work on the phase microscope of the “Salonite” factory with the only such microscope in the Republic of Croatia. The control of the concentration of asbestos particles in the room to which the recovery was carried out was carried out in accordance with the Regulation of maximum permitted concentrations of harmful substances in the atmosphere of working rooms and spaces and of biological limits. On the course of preparatory work, it was found that the zero state of asbestos-cement waste within the circle of the plant “Salonit” d.d. In the amount of about 8,000 metres of cubicly scattered asbestos waste and dehydrated asbestos-cement mud. Taking into account the regulations of the Republic of Croatia and the Directive of the European Union in order to protect the surrounding population and workers working on the recovery of their training, the following documentation has been drawn up and the following measures have been implemented. Assessments of the hazards of jobs in the operations of removing hazardous waste containing asbestos from the factory circle, and depositing it in the “Ant-Coffee” created by the Department for Protection at Work, Protection from Fire and Protection of Human Environment from Split. Afterwards, a plan was adopted to train workers who participated in these tasks and a plan for protection measures on the job. Workers are referred to targeted specialist medical examinations and those who have received a health certificate are referred to training for work in a safe way. Part of the company’s “Salonit” d.d. In bankruptcy, he didn't get a medical certificate, and the same workers weren't working on these jobs. Workers who have worked on these handling operations have been provided with the means of personal protection prescribed by the Regulation on the use of personal protective equipment, protective suits, respirators, shoe protection, safety glasses, one-time raincoats and protective gloves. The vehicles involved have passed an additional technical examination and have received a certificate of compliance with the conditions for the transfer of hazardous waste. After loading the pieces of the truck are covered with a protective tarp, and are referred to the first and second decontamination point for washing the wheels from the dust. During the loading, transport and disposal of asbestos cement waste to the site “Mrvavinska kava” daily determined the concentration of asbestos fibers. The measured value and concentration of asbestos fibers in the working environment were constantly significantly lower than the allowed limit of 0,2 fibres per centimeter cubic. The resolution programme in the section describing the measurements carried out by Ant has arbitraryly established the permitted limits of asbestos concentration in the open public space atmosphere as well as the workplace without respecting the rules which determine the permitted limits in the workplaces. In view of the fact that the company Ant, which was strongly exposed to the public, refused to admit that they had made a mistake in the measurements and interpretation of them, the minister set up an expert working group tasked with giving a measuring court to the findings carried out and propose a way and an institution to carry out reliable measurements. At a meeting of the expert working group made up of the most relevant people and experts for this area, the section was held on 26 May 2008 as well as a later review of the evaluation of the report on the measures of asbestos concentration in the atmosphere of the company Ant expert working group concluded that the measurements at the locations of the plant Salonit d.d. in bankruptcy and Ants can't be considered credible because of the non-compliance with the prescribed standard methods of measuring asbestos fibres. On 8 May 2008, additional measurements of the concentration of fiber were made by Atesti and Protection d.o.o. from Kaštel new, both within the factory and at the football field in Vranjica. These re-measures showed that the concentration of asbestos particles was less than 0,1 fibers per centimeter cubic. At the 6th session of the Committee on Environmental Protection mentioned by counterpart Petir, on 26 May 2006, the Committee reached a unanimous conclusion between several conclusions and the next conclusion that the resolution ministry was engaged by an authorised laboratory from the Republic of Croatia or abroad to carry out air asbestos particles measurements in the areas of the cities of Solin and Ploč, which was also proposed by the working group. The publication of information, which is incorrect one year after the measurement has been carried out and more than half a year since the end of the first phase, can only be interpreted by the desire to disturb the public and by any politicisation. It is true that residents of Vranjica and the surrounding areas living near the Salonite factory during the whole local work were exposed to the negative impact of asbestos dust, but it is also the only truth that this government has entrusted the ministry to solve this big problem and it seems to be. In the end, because of all this and because the recovery is within the plant Salonit d.d. and Antavination coffees carried out in accordance with all the rules of the profession, and for which there is evidence, the Croatian Democratic Community club will not support the SDP's proposal for a decision to set up an investigative committee to determine the facts with the recovery, decontamination of asbestos waste from the Salonit d.d. factory circle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14064	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Rajko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14065	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Correction is more, I stopped writing on the 11th quote, and I won't have time. The incorrect claim by the respected Vrdoljak representative was that in November 2006, the then government began to take care of health and decontamination. It is true that several months earlier, Health Minister Neven Ljubicic allowed his sublegal act to produce asbestos in Croatia 21st century, asbestos as you have rightly established gives asbestos evil, that asbestos is first-class asbestos. That's an exact statement, the health minister thank God he's no longer a minister. It's an incorrect claim that the SDP in its engagement has not fought over it, Google it, it's going to come out a whole series of data. It is an incorrect claim that the means of personal protection were used. The incorrect claim is that the vehicles were adequately decontaminated and adequately supplied. It is an incorrect claim that the concentration of particles has been studied scientifically. Not scientifically analyzed and a whole series of Mr. Vice Presidents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14066	Thank you. That's how we exhausted the debate. Does the promoter want to conclude? Yeah. Honorable representative Mirela Holy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14067	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here it is, I am sorry after this relatively brief debate, given that today's interpretation debates have been much longer, which I believe shows how much the interest of the policy is in environmental protection issues. What I am sorry, I am sorry, of course, is that obviously parliamentary representatives and MPs from the ruling parties will not support this investigative commission because I really believe that this is a public goal but also a policy goal, that is, for all of us. I would briefly refer to the presentation of counterpart Marijana Petir, who said in the opening section that the HSS according to the programme is the only green party in the Republic of Croatia. I'm afraid their view of supporting this request speaks of the fact that they're not really interested in the issue of environmental protection, because otherwise they would certainly support this request. She also mentioned that the problem of the Salonitas had not started since yesterday, i.e. that the Salonite has been working for 80 years and that is nothing at all controversial at the end, I was saying in my opening statement that this is not the problem that occurred yesterday, but in this way it seems to me that it deliberately ignores what is the objective of this request, which is to establish the facts that are related to the recovery, or not the recovery of asbestos waste from the circle of the Salonite factory. I would also like to say that it is not irrelevant why the Croatian Institute of Construction received this job in the competition, by the fact that the knowledge with which we have been speaking in support of this programme is that asbestos, i.e. asbestos waste, has been treated as municipal waste, which is contrary to the law, as well as to the conventions, and I do not think that it is only a matter of whether someone had the lowest offer as to the competition, but also the quality of the offer, and it has not actually been said at the Committee's thematic session itself. It also raises the question of what Cian's qualifications had to do with the resolution work, given that they themselves admitted at the board's thematic session that they did not have any reference to in this business, and which was ultimately visible in the very process of recovery where they may have been deliberately and perhaps out of ignorance and caused such damage. I would also like to say that the conclusions from the Committee's thematic session do not exclude the possibility of setting up an investigative committee, and therefore I do not understand why HSS and HDZ are actually opposed to this investigative committee, because I think it would only clarify a situation that is definitely not clarified at the the thematic session, and what they wrote about in the end and the media after the the thematic session and thus expressed their position. I would also like to say that the date mentioned in 13 is not the first date in which such a thematic session was set, or requested, to be organised. I had asked ten days before, so even before the full story of "The Salonita" was released in the media to organise a thematic session that would be dedicated to this problem, and therefore I find it quite absurd to actually organise a thematic session one or one of two days when the me who asked for the establishment of this thematic session was not possible to attend this session, and because I was officially absent because of my participation in the parliamentary delegation and I could not of course pass it on. I also find it a little unusual that the SDP is involved in politics. The SDP is an opposition party. We as an opposition party are also here to be in fact a correction of the government and to question the different situations of conduct or the failure of the authorities that we consider to be controversial and I do not understand at all why such an example of politics is taking place. There are clear doubts that this process has not been implemented properly and, of course, it is our obligation as a political party to insist on clarifying such cases that have great importance for the public of the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, I must also determine at the the thematic session of the Committee, there is no answer to any of the questions that we have raised in our request for the establishment of an investigative committee, and it is precisely because we have seen that with the manipulation of the dates of the establishment, that is, the organisation of the thematic session is going in this direction to cover-up, i.e. neglecting the whole problem. I am extremely pleased that Mariana Petir is proud that the board held a session on "Salonite" after 10 years as she said herself, because her pride has just made it possible for the SDP to seek and initiate the organisation of this session and without our request, I am afraid that this session would never happen. As for counterparts, Tomislav Vrdoljak would also refer to this politicization. We are not simply part of the ruling coalition and as such we do not have to simply vote and think in the same way that he thinks about the hair and I think that the purpose of the democratic system is, in principle, that there are parties that are corrective authorities, I think this case is the best example of it in action. I think that with these politicization charges, in fact, it deliberately ignores the essence of this problem, and this is not the existence of "the Salonite" but the criminal, non-transparent and improper resolution of "the Salonite" and the systematic cover-up of the failure by the HDZ, and from today's debate we see their partners as well. I've already said that Cyan has no reference to doing this job except for this tragedy they've done with "Salonite", and I would also refer to that asthests whose measurement results have been called by colleague Vrdoljak, that they measured the concentration of asbestos particles in Vranjica means not in the factory's circle but outside the meaning of the factory itself, and this shows in accordance with what values are allowed in the European Union, and this was later eventually recognised by the ministry, that such values of asbestos particles should not be at all. So if you're already referring to the results of the test, and you're deliberately ignoring the results of the measurement from ANT, then you have to be honest and admit that these asbestos particles should not have been out of the circle of the Salonite factory at all. ... I'm sorry if it's above 0,0% means it's worth zero tolerance I mean asbestos particles. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14068	Without the polemic bench and...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14069	Okay. Zero tolerance of asbestos particles can be beyond the meaning of a circle where asbestos is produced. This was not the case here, and I think it was already reason enough for the ministry to act and alarm the public, or give them guidance on how to behave to protect people's lives and health. It is also not true that SDP began to take an interest in this problem relatively recently, because if you had "googled" as counterpart Rajko Ostojić said, then you would know that the SDP has been following this case for years and since 2005 we have warned of the absurdity of the use of asbestos cement products in "Salonite" continues, after it was absolutely evident that these products will not be distributed, trade them or sell them anywhere and, unfortunately, there has been an even greater amount of asbestos waste that is being recovered today for the money of the taxpayers eco-refunds. I would also like to say that the trucks carrying asbestos date back to 1968 and let's not be ridiculous and believe that such fireplaces are qualified for such a delicate task. I mean funny! It is absurd that the ministry recognises the results of the measurement of one company it has hired, but does not respect the results of the measurement of another company it has engaged, which only means it is a cover-up. I'm afraid this way we could go on forever. You have made a political decision, you do not want to support this request, and unfortunately there is nothing we can do about it, but I can say, in that sense, and repeat that, in my opinion, by refusing to support this request, it means unambiguous confirmation that in the process of resuscitating asbestos waste from the "Salonite" factory, there have indeed been major failures, cover-ups, malversions and violations of Article 69. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14070	Thank you. Each party, each representative has the right to make an opinion known by his or her own definition and opinion, some attitude does not have the right to object to that. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14071	Mr. Vice President, unfortunately, there was more than one incorrect allegation, and I'm just going to try to correct some, and all the questions that are asked here are in the record from the the thematic session of the Assembly Committee, so I'm instructing my colleague to read it. I said that we are the only real green party in Croatia, because we have not only launched initiatives, but also addressed many environmental issues, and this can be mentioned by preventing the construction of a nuclear waste dump on Moslavačka gora, the issue of the concept of Croatia's free of GMOs, the issue of pollution resolution and the INA refinery in Sisak. When I spoke about the formation and your proposal for the Investigative Commission, it is that your proposal, or initiative, was too late, and that is why, after all the discussions we had and the conclusions that we have made in the first place, the support of such an investigative committee is immaterial. Finally, I want to deny you, my colleague Holly SDP did not allow anything, and that in Sisak-Moslavina County where the HSS keeps you in power, you take away speeches and the fact that your mayor lunches and dinners with other parties that are in opposition today,... He's throwing the HSS out of the coalition. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14072	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. On Monday we will continue work at 9th and 30th point of the 9th edition of the final proposal of the Law on Education and Education in Primary and High School, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 84. On Monday, get ready, unlike these days, to work a little longer until we're done. Thank you very much and good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-11-0.u14073	Proposal for a Decision establishing the Research Commission for the determination of facts relating to the decontamination of asbestos waste from the circle of the plant Salonita d.d. Vranium in bankruptcy. Proposer: members of the SDP Representatives Club. The debate is closed. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on investigative committees provides that the proposal to set up an investigative committee decides by a majority of the votes of all MPs. So, all the MPs. So 77 is the majority. I am voting as the previous question: Proposal for a decision to set up an investigative committee to determine the facts relating to the recovery, decontamination of asbestos waste from the circle of the plant Salonit Vranjic in bankruptcy. Please, let's get involved and vote. Please. I am voting on the proposal for a decision to set up an investigative committee to determine the facts relating to the recovery, decontamination of asbestos waste from the Salonit d.d. factory. Vranium in bankruptcy. Please, let's get on with it. So are we voting whether a commission will be established or not? What? The result? This proposal has not been accepted. It's 51. abstention 2. And against 77 MPs. He didn't get the votes he needed.
