ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8028	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. Here's a special honor for me to be the promoter on behalf of the Government of one of these laws. Perhaps one when we look on the technical side, from the most complex laws this House has passed. Perhaps if the debate on this law was ahead of this agenda point, maybe we could talk about a lot of things differently, talk about it. So why did I say this law was very technicalally demanding? Well, because it will practically have to be implemented by almost all state institutions and because for the first time, a political option had the political courage to propose something like this. Because for the first time, the state institutions will be able to see the state of affairs in both private and physical, clearly according to the prescribed rules. So what we consider in the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Finance, which is the purpose of this personal identification number or Colloquially called it at the stage of making a tax number. First of all, we consider this to be one of the most essential anti-corruption measures. So one because there will be a series, because the system of public procurement and judicial reform is all part of the fight against corruption. However, this is certainly one of the most systematic measures for the purpose of fully monitoring the diarrhoea and movement of money through the monitoring of the property situation of citizens, legal persons both domestic and foreign and comparison of changes in the property situation with reported incomes and receipts and tax paid. Therefore, any change in the asset position will have to be necessary to justify either credit or earnings or revenues during the year with the basis of all sources and species. The second instrument is to increase the effectiveness of the tax system and the efficiency of state and other institutions. So not only the better and more high-quality collection of tax revenues as the unit of local self-government of both the state budget but given that this law will be implemented, it will actually have to be implemented by almost all state institutions, and will practically force them to do better and better work by the state administration. Because today, for example, it's a very difficult and long-term job for you to get as much information as anyone has in certain companies. By introducing a personal identification number, it will be very simple to come to this because the tax administration that will have the central register on its own, with precisely authorised people who will be able to access this data based on high-level commercial court data, you will find it very easy to find out who is the owner and in which part of which company, and more than once, the question will be why someone opened 10 or 15 companies. Whether it was a reason to avoid taxes, whether it was a reason to conceal the flow of money or if it was something else. We will also have full insight into the Central Depositary Agency about the situation and transactions with securities on the Zagreb Stock Exchange. Also, very often said, someone owns some real estate or something, today is practically, if they remove that office where that building permit was issued, don't send a written memo to ask for it and for it and for it, it's impossible to get it. However, this personal identification number at the time when it is needed will be very easy to withdraw all institutions. However, you will likely ask a question about what is very important, which is protection. With the central register to be in the tax administration, maximum protection is guaranteed. For example, users of the system at the High Commercial Court will be able to exclusively use data from that institution. If any of the state institutions, whether the state's attorney's office, whether the USKOK, whether the tax administration, needs information from that part, is correct, it will be prescribed by the regulation that they will request from the Central Registry of the Tax Administration where, I say, there will be a limited number of employees who will be able to enter the Central Register and will be recorded exactly who visited the personal identification number, so that there will be no abuse and that someone cannot, apart from the state institutions, be thrown away with someone's personal data. Therefore, the second reason is the effectiveness of the tax system and the effectiveness of the state administration. The third reason and purpose is an instrument for a more effective social giving system. We are very often in the debates today, depending on which side we are in, in which position we are in, criticalally or justifying the height of social giving. However, very rarely or almost never speak of a standard, but a proper standard, based on which someone has achieved this social giving. I guarantee you that by introducing a personal identification number, we will come into a position that, with the exact same amount of funds that are intended for social giving, those who, unfortunately, have thrown their lives in such a way that they cannot take care of themselves or their own, for one reason or for that reason, will increase their income, because many of those who, for this or that reason, for incorrect display of property, etc., who have failed to exercise certain rights will simply be eliminated from that part. So in this way we will justly distribute social benefits and control of false claims on social benefits. And I think it's open to say that it exists. It was also for those governments until 2000, and for those coalition governments and now. And why is that? Because we didn't have a social measure. We don't have social care centres connected with each other in information. Also, every city, depending on its financial power, has its own social policy. And now that you're giving certain exemptions at the state level, you have no record of how many cities have given social rights to their citizens. And so it turns out to you that citizens from poorer cities can't make any kind of a relief, although they have far less income than citizens who are in richer cities, which are the cornerstone of social policy, in these cities they get some kind of social benefit. So it will be recorded, and in this way we will come to a fair distribution. What, when we talk about the even distribution of social benefits, when we talk about a even tax burden, it is, clearly, that we are talking about the instrument of functioning of the rule of law or the equal treatment of all taxpayers. And what the bill itself says in the end, and that is the instrument of harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the European Union. I know that the debate is likely to raise the question of a single mother number. You know that by amending the law, I think it was in 2002, practically forbidden the public use of a single parent number for several reasons. First of all, the unique home number of citizens was saying the number, so to speak. From it you could read a series of personal data about Croatian citizens. The second thing, the unique number of citizens had 13 digits, while in the European Union similar examples are called a tax number, somewhere a social number, so, but they all basically have the same purpose and purpose, have a maximum of 12 numbers. So if we were to talk about that if JMBG were not to be, etc., because of these 13 digits, it is practically impossible to implement it in the legal system or to comply with the legislation of the European Union. But what I'm saying is, all developed countries have a similar system. Our bill is the most similar to the law that the Scandinavian countries have for the reason that the Scandinavian countries are the last, practically, to settle the issue. But surely by using positive experiences from all these countries that have been applying this for many years, this Croatian law will be by some things, offering far more quality solutions than the other members of the European Union offer. Also, either the question is raised, or during the round tables that we have had over the past year, a year and a half as far as this law is concerned, the question is very often raised when it comes to the application of a personal identification number, which will be with records that are being kept in the current way. So until the system is fully established, records will be kept both in the old way and in a new way. A deadline date will be set when it crosses, when we have 100 percent system security when it moves on to a new system. To be honest with you, I'm sure now the state institutions, first of all the MUP, will be the State Office of Management, Ministry of Finance, i.e. Tax and Customs Administration, use the data we have on the JMBG base and practically convert it into a personal identification number, and thus already solve a large number, one big problem about forming the Central Database. So what I was already saying at the beginning, a personal identification number means networking and using data from all state institutions. And in order to even get into that position that we can get to it, we need to inform the state administration and we already have a very high level of information about the state administration at this point. And as you have seen, the bill provides for 97 million kuna as a cost to build information systems for those bodies of the state administration that are now not satisfactory. Scope of use of personal identification number and availability of data. Therefore, at the request of other bodies and persons on records data, the record holder through a personal identification number will provide records but only for the data which are legally authorised to be kept in the official record. This is what I was saying, therefore, the records in the High Commercial Court will be used only by employees who will have powers in the High Commercial Court, the Tax Administration, the MUP, etc. By respecting the rules on the protection of confidentiality of data, the Tax Administration will only provide, at the request of the other authority, data which are not considered to be tax secret in terms of tax rules and any data requested by the State Attorney's Office and other investigative authorities. How will the application of a personal identification number affect citizens? Citizens will not need to change any of their personal documents at the time of the application of the personal identification number, but in the moments when it points out the importance of these personal documents, a personal identification number will be placed on them. For now, we are still discussing with informers what would be the most suitable, simplest way to send information to all citizens and legal persons about their personal identification number. So I've already said that monitoring the property situation is also an indicator of the effectiveness of the tax system and other bodies. But what is very important should be served as a censorship for the exercise of certain rights. First of all, I mean certain social benefits, child benefits and so forth, the release from administrative fees, the release from payment of court fees, the release from payment of public note fees. We could always count it that way. It's also very important, so-called. the family status because it does not matter whether a pensioner who has a pension of 2 thousand kuna or one worker who has a salary of 2.5 to 3 thousand kuna lives alone or lives in a household where the sum of these incomes are far higher and when it comes to this social moment, it should be taken into account accordingly. But what we will achieve for the first time in Croatia by introducing a personal identification number so far we have talked about Croatian citizens. However, the introduction of a personal identification number will require any foreign legal person or natural person to conduct any transaction in the Republic of Croatia to obtain a personal identification number. In this way, the problem of illegal rental will also be solved, the problems of acquiring real estate in this way, various transactions and in free zones and everywhere. So in any business transaction, by personal identification number, foreign legal and natural persons will practically have the same status as that applies to Croatian citizens, which is ultimately logical because if it is any kind of money transaction, then if we speak, if others demand that they have non-discriminatory status, then there is also no right for someone in Croatia to make any cash transaction without it being recorded where it should be recorded. How the personal identification number will affect citizens when they need some kind of service from administrative bodies. Here, let's just take an example of a child's allowance. You today need to knock on tens of doors and more doors, collect these certificates, those certificates, etc. By introducing a personal identification number, your only obligation will be to apply for a child's allowance. The administrative body that runs this process will collect all information through a personal identification number and send it to your home address or to your computer any way you want, to receive a child's allowance, or not to receive it for that. So this is about simplification for citizens in obtaining certain rights. Or if we take, for example, how tax numbers are applied, that's what they call it in Slovenia and in some other countries, it happens, in fact, that it has repercusions to foreigners. In Slovenia, there is no way you can come and do any transaction not to go to the IRS and not get a tax number. In Portugal, you have no chance of coming and buying two or three apartments without being recorded anywhere as its owner. And if you're registered to own several apartments, then it means that only you can stay in them. If anyone else is staying in them, then you are engaged in illegal activity if you have not requested permission to rent these apartments in the Republic of Croatia according to positive regulations and pay taxes in the Republic of Croatia. Or what's in the big expansion at the moment in the Republic of Croatia and that's a boat rental. We can already say before now because most of the proceedings were completed, three and a half years ago the Customs Administration and the Tax Administration issued a solution for over 400 ships that used the right to import temporarily and were actually engaged in economic activities in the Republic of Croatia. The introduction of a personal identification number will simply not be possible anymore because exactly every vessel entering Croatia will be registered and will also be recorded in which port is anchored. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This was as short as I could get around the introduction of a personal identification number. I sincerely hope that in one constructive debate, because listening to the previous debate, then I think that we are all interested in finally giving that corruption what's said fat on the head, so that we can do it then we have to pass some law. And let's not just, I'm sorry, I don't want this to turn out if I, as minister, were holding parliamentary counsel a lesson but I feel the need to say this. Let's not just declare that we're up to something. Let's make the law, let's make a tool to fight something, so if something doesn't work out, it's easier to change the law so it's even more effective than to talk about fighting and we don't have the tools to do it. So, respected colleagues and colleagues because I started in these benches too, I expect all clubs will support this law because I think it would be good for Croatia. I think that would be a good message to both the world and the European public, with, of course, criticism and suggestions that might need to be changed. But I repeat, we all aim to join the European Union. One of the greatest burdens on our backs is fighting corruption. This is one of the most systematic measures, and I will not beg on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but I would kindly expect you to support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8029	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Chairman of the Committee on Economy, Mr Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8030	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. At its 5th session, held on 29 April, the Committee on Economy discussed the proposal for a Law on Personal Identification Number with the Final Bill. We discussed this in terms of Article 140 as an interested working body. In his opening statement, the proposal's representative explained the reasons for the submission of this legislative proposal in particular by stressing its importance in the fight against corruption. By introducing a personal identification number, the tax administration will for the first time have all information on the incomes and assets of the holder of a personal identification number, so, shares, shares, real estate and the rest in one place that will allow easy access to data and insight into the acquisition of property. Also, the proposaler's representative pointed out that the personal identification number will be conducted under the tax administration under strictly prescribed procedures, and the access to the database will have only certain persons trained to do so. So to avoid all manipulations and abuses. The applicant's representative announced, which will certainly echo well among thousands and thousands of taxpayers, that, in the future, it is precisely due to the introduction of a personal identification number of income tax returns for taxpayers that the tax administration should meet and organise. After the debate was held, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Personal Identification Number Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8031	Thank you, other committee representatives? No, I don't. We're moving on to a debate. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Honorable Representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8032	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, the debate of the Croatian Democratic Community Club that I will present here will not give much of the exposure we have heard from the promoter, Minister of Finance. Because it is a Croatian Democratic Community project with coalition partners. And of course, the Croatian Democratic Community Club gives full support to the adoption of the Law on a specific identification number which provides for the introduction of provisions into the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia expects the accession and full membership of the European Union, and Croatia's tax legislation is aligned with the acquis of the European Union and the Council Directive of 28 November 2006. Perhaps at the beginning a few words about what is essentially a personal identification number. The personal identification number shall be introduced into the legal system of the Republic of Croatia as a permanent identification mark for each person in the Republic of Croatia. All developed democratic countries use one of the variants of a personal identification number. First of all, for the purpose of exercising rights related to social, health, insurance, tax pay and the like. In some European Union countries, the personal identification number is often also referred to as a tax or fiscal number, as we also heard from the minister. Unlike the home number, the personal identification number does not reveal personal data. It consists of digits that are determined by random selection and does not contain information indicating any relationship with the person to whom it has been assigned. One of the imperatives of introducing and applying a personal identification number is strict respect for citizens' privacy. The personal identification number will determine and assign the tax administration, under 1st natural persons, at birth and under 2nd legal persons upon establishment. The designation and allocation of a personal identification number shall be carried out without direct cost to the citizens, or to the persons to whom it is assigned. It should be pointed out that the current number of citizens does not meet European criteria both because of the number of digits and because of the fact that public use of this number is prohibited in the Republic of Croatia. As regards negotiations in full membership, the Ministry of Finance is required to introduce an identification number to exchange tax data from tax records and other state institutions. The introduction of a personal identification number is an important instrument in the fight against corruption and will enable more effective prevention of attempts at malfeasance and abuse of citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but as we heard for the first time by foreign citizens in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. The personal identification number will have 11 digits and plus the HR code. The figures will be allocated as already said in the tax administration, by random selection, and will be given by all Croatian citizens and legal persons based in the Republic of Croatia, foreign, legal and natural persons. The personal identification number records will be kept by the tax administration. The law also provides for criminal provisions under which fines from 1000 to 10000 kuna will be fined by a debtor who does not use a personal identification number on the prescribed law. The same penalty is also provided for the responsible person of the user, who does not use personal identification numbers to connect data in official records, in daily work and in data exchange. The final and transitional provisions of the law also set the time limit for the determination and allocation of the personal identification number and the entry into official records by 31 December 2010. Until the identification number is determined and assigned, the unique number of citizens shall remain in force. Article 20 of the Law provides that the Minister of Finance will adopt a regulation implementing the provisions of that law within 4 months of the date of entry into force of this law. Article 21 provides for the law to enter into force on 1 January 2009. In addition to Article 3(2) and (3) which enter into force on the day of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the membership of the European Union. What do we get by introducing a personal identification number? The personal identification instrument is the fight against corruption with a fundamental objective of transparency. The personal identification number is an instrument to increase the effectiveness of the tax system and the efficiency of state and other institutions. The personal identification number is an instrument for a more effective social giving system with the aim of fair distribution of social benefits and control of false claims on social benefits. The personal identification number is an instrument of functioning of the rule of law with the aim of equal treatment of all taxpayers. Finally, the personal identification number is an instrument for harmonising Croatian tax legislation with the acquis of the European Union. Comparing a personal identification number with international practice, it is seen that all Member States of the European Union use certain identification numbers. The use of identification numbers differs depending on how the legal system of a country is organised and functioning. Identification numbers are mostly used in taxation, social security, pensions and elsewhere. So that's what's meant by our law. Because of what we have heard in the explanation of the Prime Minister's proposal and the above mentioned club of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the adoption of the Law on Personal Identification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8033	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8034	Mr. Vice President, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The personal identification number law provides that every natural, legal, domestic and foreign person in Croatia gets a personal identification number. The law would apply from 1.1.2009 from when all newborns, i.e. newly established legal persons, would receive a personal identification number while all others would receive this identification number gradually by 31 December 2010. This part is actually about our most important observation, because the law has been announced for two years, and almost nothing has been done on its application, or at least we have no such information. In the opinion of the tax bookkeeping and information experts, such a system should be well prepared and then applied within a short period of time, and all the relevant records should be abolished at the same time. The system itself is a large business, since it implies the reconstruction and adaptation of all existing registers, tax bases and other records that exist in the country. On the contrary, the assignment of a personal identification number, so as the procedure itself, is possible in a very short time. The introduction, then called tax number, is announced in 2006 with the application of 1.1.2007. It is then said that the single tax number is being introduced for all companies and citizens, as this is a condition for entering the European Union, in particular for the exchange of value added tax data. The urgency of law-making is now explained by the harmonisation of Croatia's tax legislation, but we have no information and why we lost almost two years to start setting up a system. Back in September 2006. The government tasked the Ministry of Finance with drawing up a draft law on that date by the end of November on a single tax number. In early 2007, the finance minister announced that the law was being drafted in the final phase and announced its application in early 2008. The justification for not passing this law was found in the parliamentary elections at the end of last year, so it is now up to me to say under quotes of the law completed in mid-2008 and application at the beginning of 2009 with a transitional period by the end of 2010. In other words, we have lost almost 4 years to establish a system for which the government, and even in this opening statement, the minister says is the most powerful anti-corruption tool. The World Bank blocked the first tranche of the loan to adapt so-called "the World Bank". PAL 2 of 100m euros. Only the adoption of a personal identification number law will not solve its application, as we are not convinced that the conditions for application are ensured, as the personal identification number is finally assigned to a prolonging at the beginning of 2011. The necessary funds for the implementation of the announcement that this will amount to 110 million kuna, something different now the minister said, are slightly less only a small part secured in the 2008 State budget, worth 33 million kuna, while the rest is foreseen to be secured in the 2009 budget. We would like to warn that the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with European Union legislation cannot only be the adoption of laws, but also its application in practice. As long as it has arrived with the education of staff who need to form and implement the system, we also have no information, nor have we got it today. The aim of the introduction of a personal identification number is that in a simple and effective manner authorised tax administration officers come up with data on the property and incomes of every citizen and every company operating in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. The main result of the introduction of a personal identification number is the control of assets and income, and the payment of taxes or the use of certain social rights, i.e. the shortest said movement of cash flows. When the personal identification number completes all state records, it will become a link between land books or, for example, the Ministry of Interior of Vehicle Records, securities registers, commercial courts and other records. In order for the information to be reliable, all current records must be up-to-date and accurate. And what is the situation in Croatia, for example, in land books, should not be specifically elaborated. So there's going to be a lot of work for people who work to update land books. Because if we don't ensure that the property changes are monitored, we haven't done anything about the comparison of these changes with the reported incomes and taxes paid. The introduction of such a system is a good tool in the fight against corruption, but the law itself is not the most powerful anti-corruption tool as announced. Because the effect will only be produced if there is a political will for it to apply to everything. So the power of this law will be in line with the political will of its final application both in time and in total. Unfortunately, we have not received any information from the 2006 announcement in preparation for the introduction of a personal identification number. We have a lot of open questions, some of them were tried and answered by the minister in the opening statement. I'll just get a few of them. What does it look like in state record-keeping bodies now in one way, and they're going to have to move on to a new system and finally create a central database in the tax administration? Is the time until the beginning of 2011 enough to establish such a system in view of our already proverbial ineffectiveness? What laws should be amended and in what period? In fact, we are now saying that in a more effective way, we will pay taxes, or social benefits, or what will happen to tax benefits. Now, social benefits or tax relief are determined by laws that are likely to need to be changed, so it would be good information in what sense and within which time it will come. Or, for example, the right to tax relief with and abstention members now have persons regardless of the property situation. Is that how it's gonna stay in the future? So all of this should be answered in a short time. What about the secrecy of the data, so the minister sort of gave the answer to this question. Therefore, all these and similar issues should be notified to the public and to Parliament in a short time. We would like to warn that we have lost a lot of time, so now under the pressure of negotiations with the European Union and the time seal, we are passing the Law on the personal identification number, and the main, most difficult and most complicated part of the job, its application is yet to come. Law-making is technical assistance in the construction of a system for monitoring and flow of money and tax payments. It is introduced to bring Croatian tax legislation into line with the European Union Directive on the common system of value added tax. Therefore, it should not be given a historical or revolutionary character in Croatian legislation. And we at the SDP Club will support its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8035	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8036	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I almost gave up the correction, since my colleague in the last sentence said she would support the adoption of this law, but I think it is necessary, which is to be commended, but I think it is necessary to correct an absolutely incorrect assumption that we are now passing this law under pressure, entering the European Union, etc. And this is one of the elements of meeting the obligations, but in this government's strategy there was, among other things, a calculation with corruption, and one of the instruments of that reckoning is this number. On the other hand, to question the government's intention, therefore, to pass this law by how this law will be implemented the next day, and thus to question the government's desire to actually deal with corruption is really pointless. Because if the government didn't want it, you wouldn't even go with a law like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8037	Thank you. This other part wasn't exactly a correction, but good.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8038	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8039	And please, nice. On behalf of the HNS Club, Honorable Representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8040	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here I will start by saying that the club of representatives of the Croatian People's Party will support the proposal to pass this law. So understand that, Mr. Minister, as a single dose of Turkish solidarity. But let us be well-intentioned to point out some of the problems that Mr. Minister has, I dare say, I would sum up in a very picturesque sentence when he said that corruption is one of the greatest burdens they put on our backs. This means that the pressure on which he said something about his correction and Mr. Bagaric, indeed, is real. He really does exist. It would not exist in such a way that our partners, in the process of joining the European Union, believe to the end that we are able to stick to the deadlines that we have said and declared in our desire to join the European Union itself when it comes to dealing with corruption. It also means that it is trying to help us, I understand it just as well, to understand the seriousness of the situation and to hunt down those deadlines that seem to be difficult for us right now, and it seems to me that the problems of implementing this law have been large enough, that this is why the government has not actually done anything to this moment, that the Law on the personal identification number would indeed come before Parliament. The truth is, indeed what the minister says took political courage because this is an acidic apple. Whoever's doing this is gonna have a lot of work to do. But the implementation of this law means really rooted changes, above all in the exchange of data between relevant state authorities, means the possibility, still the possibility of simplifying certain procedures that citizens lead to state bodies, means the possibility of collecting all information according to a particular key in one place and reducing people's anxiety, but may also mean the possibility of constantly monitoring the flow of money, i.e. the state of property. So it's all that and it's sleeping. The question is how to implement all these mechanisms, how to make them functional so that it doesn't only use 10% of the capacity that the OIB is introducing, and that 90% stay on the side. So, to exploit all the mechanisms that are given to us on disposition. This requires terrible technological preparation, education, the introduction of new technology into many services. That's not at all controversial. I even think that the estimated cost is relatively too modest in relation to the real needs that will arise, not only of these, but of the following years. The fact is also that the promoters, so government representatives have already repeated several times in public the claim that the Personal Identification Number Act can be a good tool in the fight against corruption. And they're aware of those words "can." It will take a lot of effort to make this "can" become a "eat" such a formulated provision of this law does not necessarily mean cutting down corruption, but it will really enable the responsible government to monitor all those flows not only of money, which can determine whether someone has legally obtained income or illegal. Well, now that that's the case, the amendment I've submitted goes precisely to the MPs, but also the proponent himself, so government members themselves commit themselves to being the first to get the OIB. In this regard, I have proposed an amendment that all those covered by the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in Public Delegation and all those considered to be judicial officials should receive, so that they should be assigned and assigned a personal identification number not until 31 December 2010, but by 31 March 2009, so that they should be the first to submit to this particular monitoring mechanism and money flows. Because if we really think this can serve as an element in preventing and potentially suppressing corruption, we now point to our example that we are ready to be first. Three months from the start of the personal identification number, it is quite sufficient for the President of the Republic, the President and Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, all MPs, the President and members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the President and the Judges of the Constitutional Court, the Governor, the Deputy Governor, the Vice-Governor, the Chief State Auditor, the Attorney General, all the other lawyers, the secretaries of all bodies, the heads of all the bodies of the Government, all the judges of the municipal, county and the Supreme Court. One of the HDZ colleagues told me you didn't mention important people in the amendment, and these are judges of criminal, administrative and commercial courts and these are state lawyers. So here I propose, since I have not completed my amendment, that the Government demonstrates good will and that the Proposer accepts this amendment with just such a supplement to include all those who, according to the laws of the Republic of Croatia, must submit a report on their property status so as to deposit their property so-called. Immigrant cards. Why not first and point to our example that we are ready to apply this law to ourselves first and then to everyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8041	On behalf of the promoter, the Honorable Minister, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8042	Thank you very much. Well, above all, thanks to the SDP club and the HNS club for the support, but I think that there are some things that need to be clarified. It's not about assigning a personal identification number here, it's about you withdrawing information from all state institutions. So we can assign all of these to you who listed a personal identification number practically 1.1. But what if with that identification number you can't withdraw his stakes in companies, you can't withdraw his stakes in the Central Depositary Agency, you can't see if he asked for a building permit anywhere, etc. So the point is, it doesn't matter at all to assign a personal identification number. The point is that the whole system, all state institutions can withdraw information and that is why this law is not delayed at all and this law is not a condition. And I would like to say something about the Croatian public and it is not correct to talk about ourselves in this way. The World Bank didn't stop the money. If you take a closer look at the budget of the Republic of Croatia, then you will see that these money is planned in the budget, that the basis of these planned money is planned and certain projects, and you know how the budget is poured. It's important whether these money came at 2 or 12 months or not, but those money will be here these days. And if it were true that the World Bank had suspended this money, so listen, I wouldn't have been invited on Wall Street to receive a prize on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia from the World Bank. So do you really think that an institution would give someone a reward, and at the same time it's not, but it's just doing it to the Croatian public because they keep talking to something. So I want to say one thing. Mr. Beus is no problem at all what you said, because it's a few million Croats, it's a couple hundred officials. And be assured not because you said it but because of credibility, that just the first members of the government will get personal identification numbers, but I repeat, let's not send the wrong message at first. Because you saw how many bile debates there were in the previous agenda. This is for me, first of all, for us politicians, I'm coming from myself personally, and I think of everyone else, a great thing. Because there's no one left to charge you with it, so please, I'll personally ask to be given the official print, so I'll publish it or anyone else. No one can have your property in their name anymore, because someone's gonna ask him where you get the money for that property. So no one's amnesty and no one's protected. And so please, if we already support the law, let's not approach any small particular interests in order to do something that we're basically not going to get anything with it, believe me. Because in this law together with our colleagues, with our colleagues from the Supreme Court, with colleagues from the High Court of Commerce, with the State's Attorney's Office, we've been working with the Department of Justice for two years now, and the meaning of this law is completely different from what you said. So get a personal identification number without being applied by all institutions in the state in principle you haven't done anything. You didn't do anything. You have something, and you can't use it in principle. But when that personal identification number comes back to life in a commercial court, at the Central Depository Agency, at the MUP, in the building license office, and when there's a suspicion of some kind of dishonest shop, I'm going to say it here and now. Sometimes the State's Attorney's office has to ask a few institutions for information to do something, leak somewhere, someone calls somebody, listen they're asking about you, etc. And that's how interest is prevented. You should speak, call things the language they are. However, in this case, it will be known precisely whether the state's attorney will determine whether or not the head of the USKOK of his own man, or people who will have the right to request information and will receive information without anyone knowing that this information is being sought. I saw your amendment and I thought at the end of the debate, look back. It's not about not wanting to accept the amendment, it's about technically not getting anything. But I repeat, personally and thought to make first officials in the government, assigned to the government's personal identification number session, symbolically hand it over to see that they got it first. But I repeat, technically, you won't get anything with that colleague. You won't get anything. The point is that we have an informed administration that this informational administration is networked. And there's something else I want to say. This law does not amnesty any unholy acts of the past 17 years. Not one. Not one. However, with the records of the existing state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the institution will be able to withdraw information into its property. And if someone's being investigated normally, they're going to be able to ask him how he got so much property based on something, but now they're going to have relevant indicators. And that's why I want to say, because there have been some in the public debate that there are going to be a question that this is going to amnesty some things before. No, he won't. No state institution that can deal with any violation and criminal acts of the past period will, with nothing, be prevented, but this law will only serve more to make better and better facts and better knowledge possible, and be assured of that. I repeat, this law is something that is not the pressure of the European Union, and I would not want it to be too significant, because my ministry is proposing this law. This is one of the best laws that has any European Union country. Why? Because they passed these laws a long time ago. We've been doing this law now and we've used all the positive experiences, of all the countries to make one quality law and go one step further than everyone else, because many don't have this in commercial courts, etc. And why am I talking so much about trade courts? Well, because there's a colleague, Linic, who was Deputy Prime Minister at the time of the coalition government, well knows that the most common type of crime and all those who deal with the economy, people who make a debt to the state, make a debt to their business partners, is opening up the next company and thus going on forever. We simply want to stop it with this law. Because, look, even in a commercial court when he sees someone opening a fifth or sixth company, he's going to imagine why it is, so he's going to ask for information from the tax administration and it's going to be legal not to just let it happen. We have a series of examples like that. But, look, colleagues, you can't do all this overnight. None of us sitting here is a lifesaver. We all have a huge life experience, everyone in our area, and we know what the big problems are. I also do not expect at all, as a resolute minister, that there will be no strong resistance from certain stakeholders to implement this law. But, dear friends, if we're going to call ourselves on the left and right, depending on how it suits us, and nothing will at least try to do it, then we're not credible. We're not credible. So let's look at this law like this. I say there will be a lot of problems, and that's why I said a lot of technical problems for its application, because unfortunately, management is what it is for us. Uninformed, unrelated. But trust me, colleagues, to all of us in politics, and who we are public employees, it will be much easier to live, because you will not be able to be called by everyone else, as it is day-to-day, but there will be certain institutions, there will be certain data. I repeat, no one can have any more property on someone, because someone's gonna ask them where you get the money to have what you have. And that's why, here, I felt the need, with both thanks to one club and another, to support this, to technically clarify, because believe me, colleague Beus, the government can accept that amendment, but trust me, you won't get anything with it. But here, I can assume on my own the obligation practically that when the tax administration starts at 1. 1. To assign tax numbers, to be all of us in the first round, I don't think that's a problem at all. But with that, unfortunately, we won't get anything until we do everything we have to do in all the state institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8043	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8044	Your Honor, Mr. Minister, you said that by defining the deadline for the assignment, setting the allocation of the OIB to the persons I mentioned by my amendment, it would actually be to create a wrong picture of this law. I fear it is quite the opposite, therefore, that it is not the wrong picture if all those who are by default, therefore, by definition the first to strike possible corruption, that they are precisely involved in the implementation of this law, having a number, knowing that sooner or later it will start to be used and controlled. But I must say that I am a little concerned with your words, because you said that, unfortunately, that number will obviously not be able to implement practice for the next year, because it will not be all informed, it will not be implemented this law. So, if the law is able to be implemented already since 1. 1. In 2009, as you stated as a proposing, then I see no reason why of 1. 1st would not have been the first to get the OIB exactly the state officials or all the judicial officials. Because it's not good to be like this...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8045	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8046	Leaves that some similars might get their OIB...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8047	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8048	Not until December 2010. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8049	Thank you. My Goran, you don't understand... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8050	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8051	On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain, will explain what the "opa" means to him.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8052	Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, Here, and the fourth club, the IDS club will vote for this I.D. Act. But we're going in this kind of order. On the side, firstly, it is said that the proposal for a law on personal identification numbers proposes to introduce a personal identification number into the legal system of the Republic of Croatia as a permanent identification mark for each person in the Republic of Croatia. And then, among other things, it is said: The introduction of a personal identification number is needed to bring Croatia's tax legislation into line with the European Union. I think it's partly a false allegation. That number is primarily needed for our own sake, for the sake of the earth as such. Unfortunately, the introduction of that number is late, at least 17, 18, 16 years late. 18, 17, 16 or 15 years ago, we've spent privatisation, we've made it possible for individuals to get ill-fated and now the same, among other things, I dare say, we're protecting ourselves with this law. "Whom, jamio," he said of this speaker, Royce, and entered the legend in some way. He's far more famous than he is for his heroic deeds. And the ones I'm talking about right now, so the ones who did that privatisation, and from now on, we're going to be fair. And come on, gentlemen, that the minister is right and says, there's no amnesty for people who've been mistaking that property, but I'm afraid that statement just doesn't hold water. Indeed, this law is a mechanism that in Croatia, as everyone has said, acts far more transparently, far more honestly, far more credible than ever before. It's just that when we say that conversion, we can't fix it anymore. The European Union, we all agree, is needed if for nothing and then to be more transparent, in order to be far more honest but, in fact, at the moment of entry into the European Union in 2010 or 2011, and such discussions where someone asks for, say, a revision of conversion will simply be a dog. It doesn't go there anymore. On page 2 of this Act, it is literally said that, on the basis of the connection of data from official records, I quote, about persons and property through a personal identification number managed by the competent authorities of the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration will be able to monitor the changes of the property of citizens and legal persons more effectively than ever, and compare them with the reported receipts and revenues or taxes paid, etc. As a consequence, the proposed law should also be a significant instrument in the fight against corruption and so on. I really think that these are the very sentences that need to be supported, and that's why it needs to stand firm behind this law. One of the sureties, not the only one of this law is the fight against corruption. It is clear to me that it is good that for one time all citizens without exception to the age of that identification number and that in this way the value of someone's property can be controlled. It is good that even these tycoons who now have these political ambitions also get these numbers. You have, like, everyone today, so they kind of have a good part of the government. They're responding to more and more control today, the growing rigority of the state if there's nothing we can do that's easier and without competition, let's say. They can really say today, here from 2008 we will now and honestly. Who will be the subject of the greatest concern? Who won't be amnesty in this country? Let's just say there's not gonna be an amnesty of some little craftsman putting on a wall, something's working on black, I hope there's not gonna be an amnesty for a criminal who's dealing with drugs, cigarette smuggling, etc. but it will be amnesty for those who participated in the conversion in the Croatian way in the 1990s. For a little man, we can say "hard times" are coming. He says recently Pankretic will tax unprocessed agricultural areas. Taxes will also be paid for sports transfers, certainly the day will come soon when taxes and capital gains will be paid. Okay, it's all right. It will be abolished on the other side of the zero VAT rate, the church will pay VAT, but what are we going to do? That's right elsewhere. Surely in this country, there will be more work and perhaps a little harder to live on, but the more order it is, the easier it is to be able to earn something. Nowhere but here, it wasn't possible to get a factory, a bank, a hotel, some spa, a marina. In Croatia, elsewhere it was meant to be done, it was meant to be done for generations, and all of this came from one solution of the Croatian Privatisation Fund and it hurts. Now we see, with one law like this, what was possible in the early 1990s won't be possible anymore. From now on, we're going to have that I.D. number. After a unique home number of citizens or this JMBG who goes to the castle of history, after stupidity that the number is not to be published and we all gave it without a complex if we came to the bank or somewhere else this number that has the task first of all to monitor the acquisition of someone's property in a function of clear tax collection. Understandably, the state lives on taxes. The more taxes it will be and the higher wages and health care will have better standards and social benefits, tomorrow it may be helpful to further shipbuilding, pensions will be higher, etc. But I'm afraid, unlike Minister Shuker, who claims that no one will be amnested from what he did in the 1990s between this law and this law, and if we vote for the same amnesty of everything that was done in the past. Nothing to end what you say? Who's in the pit, and by tomorrow, we can do it fair and square.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8053	Thank you very much. And club HDSSB respected representative Vladimir Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8054	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. I'm going to be honest and I think I'm going to share my opinion so most of them whether they belong to the government or to the opposition that this and this one law is late, and that's what Mr. Cain said a few years ago. I don't think it's the fault of those who are now acting in power even though he could have been significantly brought in earlier. However, even if it had been brought, I'm sure it wouldn't have been applied. Why am I so sure? Well, we ended up there without any need in 2002, a unique home number. Okay, maybe someone finds a reason that it really was necessary to cancel that parent number irrelevantly, but we had a number similar to this identification number that we could follow up on all this data. Of course, and this fact that we are now introducing this moment when we adopt a legal identification number we can share it, it's very false, and I agree with Minister Shuker, I think I understand it well. So it's no problem to divide the identification number, so we're going to do it within, a week, two, a month, but how we're going to use that identification number, how we're going to relate to it. I emphasize and repeat, so we had a number, we had a number of even 13 digits, numbers, 13 years ago. Have we been able to use it? No, we shut it down! So, that we had, that we followed, that we followed everything that happens in conversion and privatisation, in one way through the tax system, through the institutions of the legal system, so we could prevent corruption. And now we say that this is one of the levers and I'm sure this is really a prerequisite and a lever that can serve largely as that lever for fighting and preventing corruption. However, the question is how and how will the institutions of the legal system, the Ministry of Finance and all those who are actually competent apply this identification number. But it's never too late. Of course, the HDSSB club will support this Law on Personal and Identification Number because we have virtually no significant objections to the text of the Law on Personal Identification Number but I personally have doubts about its application. Therefore, the actual application of both the moment and the deadlines set out in the draft law when this identification number will indeed be able to fully apply in all those purposes as set out in this proposal of the law. Is it really going to be from December 31st, or 1. 1. 2011 The HDSSB club supports this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8055	We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8056	Well, the incorrect allegation is that the single number of citizens has been abolished, as said Minister Shuker. And this law predicts that it will be used in another transitional period. The amendment of the law found only that it cannot be visible on public documents because it contains personal data in its composition, therefore, on the date, year of birth, place of birth, therefore, situated in the former republic of Yugoslavia, even municipalities. So, talking about sex, that was why he didn't, why he didn't need to be visible. However, this unique home number of colleagues has also been used in conversion and privatisation and is still used today when you need to get a loan, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8057	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is the distinguished representative of Dragutin Lesar. There's no darling. He's losing his right to debate. Dear representative Nevenka Majdenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8058	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. Today, at the time of the intense development of information and practical application of the Internet at the time of business and public use of various information bases and data it is quite understandable to bring here, to introduce a personal identification number, as a permanent identification mark for all persons in the Republic of Croatia. This is also understandable because the construction of an information society at all levels through the E-Croatian programme is recognised as one of the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, using communication technology and electronic business information. The continued increase in the amount for the development of the information society is a confirmation of the readiness and determination of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for efforts to further build an information society. Mr. Beus said the government didn't do anything to get into this law. I really believe that this is not true, to the law, to the application of the law, implementation can occur if it is state-owned, if the authorities of the state administration are informed. Therefore, it should be said that the investments in information are continuously increasing and only one data is increased if we take the implementation of 2007 and the budget, therefore, the proposal, the 2008 budget, that the growth of funds, i.e. investments in the information of the government's authority is increased by 46.35%. Therefore, when informing the authorities of the state administration, this personal identification number may also be used. I am sure that there will be no specific opposition and resistance to its introduction in the public, only the public should be clearly presented with its objective, purpose and security in application. As a matter of fact, we already have similar experiences in applying the unique number of citizens of origin and the basic objections to its use is that it gives out certain personal data of individuals such as age and sex, and that it has become optional, or cannot be used without the consent of the owner of the number. When applying and creating a personal identification number, this will not be possible because the numbers will be chosen by random choice, will be unique and unrepeated and will have no connection with the person they refer to. The explanation of the purpose and purpose of this law, which are given under the bill, is quite concrete, summed up and understandable and I don't think there's any need to repeat it. I personally believe that, through practical application, a personal identification number will very quickly integrate into all existing state systems, such as courts, grantovnica, catastries, pension and health insurance systems, social protection, financial agencies, Croatian Chamber of Commerce, Croatian Chamber of crafts and other institutions. Very soon, it will prove that it can replace existing health or pension insurance numbers and thereby make it much easier and simpler to operate these and other systems. It is inevitable that the establishment of a database with a personal identification number and all systems at country level will allow for mutual exchange and use of a foreign database with the possibility of quick and efficient verification of the requested or obtained information. For an individual citizen, I think the most important thing is that the formation of basic state systems, based on a basic identification number, will enable effective protection and security of their material and financial assets and personal data. Furthermore, the abuse of personal rights from pension and health insurance systems, social assistance, incentives and state aid will be avoided. So, I hope it doesn't happen again that the person who owns the cottage, some luxury car is receiving social aid. There will also be indirect benefits that will be difficult to measure, but will eventually reflect on improving working and business conditions. For example, quick and effective tax or contribution control will allow for better collection of income from taxes and contributions. For example, an increase in pension insurance contributions by 10% would mean an increase in pensions or, on the other hand, a possible reduction in contribution rates. It would have happened similarly with taxes. It is realistic to assume that the improvement will also be felt on the equal distribution of the burden of tax obligations, as the tax burden will be quantifiable by the economic strength of each individual taxpayer, which would certainly affect the reduction of the gray market and the avoidance of payment of tax obligations. The draft law stipulates that the Minister of Finance adopts a rule implementing the law laying down the procedure for determining, granting and delivering a personal identification number within 4 months of the date of entry into force of the law. And given our minister's abilities and proven results on the regulation and transparency of the state budget, there will be no problem. Finally, given the quality, preparation and expertise of this law, and I believe both the endurance and determination in its application, control and implementation, I suggest that it be accepted in the text and as proposed in the emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8059	Thank you. Honorable representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8060	Honorable Vice President, Minister and fellow MPs. Surely it would be better if we had a personal ID number 15 years ago, 18 years ago, sure that would be better. But unfortunately we didn't have it, it's good to have it here and now we have it in the proposal and we generally expect it to be delivered. But it's not worth crying for spilled milk, so I think all these discussions that go back 18 years are a waste of time at this point. As regards the introduction of a personal identification number for each citizen who is exercising a social right in the Republic of Croatia, it will enable the rationalisation of the public consumption system at all levels. The system of application of the single number of citizens has proved insufficient because there is a lack of rationalisation of keeping records, i.e. the removal of parallel records. It cannot be determined from the birth number whether someone is alive or dead, or whether he is a citizen of Croatia or Montenegro. The system was abandoned by the Slovenians in order to create order and introduced a unique tax number given at the birth of every child in Slovenia. The mandatory social security system in most countries of the world is covered by a uniform rate and a unique type of contribution. With us, every social security type is separated so that you have compulsory contributions to pension and disability insurance, you have health insurance and health care, employment. The welfare system is financed from other sources mostly from tax revenues. Each contribution system has its own system of records. The rationalisation of the public consumption system implies and rationalisation in the area of so-called ‘public consumption’. Social security, which most often includes minimum health and pension insurance and normal unemployment benefits, and social assistance. All these categories include all rights and minimum health care. The practice in the world is that the social security identification number is the basis for the exercise of rights in all areas of public consumption, including the tax system. In our system today we have nine parallel systems none of which satisfy fully. The tax administration has its own system, and as separate systems, a system of health insurance and pension insurance and a system of children's allowance and the Employment and Social Protection Office and the Defence System, etc. is also organised. All these systems keep their records, each for themselves, and all these records are common basic data on the social status of citizens. The result of this confusion in the system is unresolved social cases on the one hand, and on the other hand, the great torment of citizens when they need to realise their rights. Unfortunately, there are also cases of system abuse when individuals are using more than one base, even though they would not have the right to do so with insight into a complete system. The system of the personal identification number, other than the rationalisation of the public consumption system, allows for an effective fight against tax evasion and illicit use of social rights. It is particularly important to stress that the protection of privacy as a concept of democracy that is often mentioned in cases of the creation of solid records on the social status of citizens and possible subsequent abuses. The introduction of a personal identification number does not also mean a breach of privacy but contributes to its protection, because the protection of citizens' data and their right to privacy is the basis of every modern democratic system. The data that an individual gives to authorized persons is a matter of business secrets. They cannot be used except for the purpose for which they are collected. The problem of determining the social status of citizens in the world is solved by issuing a mandatory social security identification number. This determines the social status of each employee, but also the dependent member of the family. The uniqueness of the data is secured, no duplication of the records and no misunderstandings. The introduction of a personal identification number creates a system of unique, not a separate record. It is time for this matter to be resolved as soon as possible because the slowness and ineffectiveness of the current parallel systems and money, and the nerves are now being paid by taxpayers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8061	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Ivan Hanzek.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8062	Since I was going to use that information in my debate, but here's my colleague Kunst, he gave me the opportunity to say that in correcting the incorrect quote. According to the Faculty of Informatics and Varazdin from the meeting "Informatopolis" a year and a few days ago, every citizen of the Republic of Croatia is not in 8 records but in 16 records that are not connected, unfortunately, and therefore we have this state that we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8063	Thank you. I shall inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure expired time to enter into the debate for 10 minutes at 12 hours and 33 minutes. The next registered representative is Zivko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8064	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. Here's a quick bill, but I'd say murderous. My debate will be brief, but it won't be murderous. There's no reason. It is therefore a matter of introducing a personal identification number into the legal system of the Republic of Croatia as a permanent identification code for each person in the Republic of Croatia. This is also the harmonisation of Croatian tax legislation with the acquiss of the European Union. But I would say that it is even more important to connect, here and now we have heard about it, connecting official records kept in the Republic of Croatia about persons and property, as well as about the international exchange of data from tax records. Why does it matter? So the tax administration will be able to monitor changes in the property of citizens and legal persons more easily and efficiently than before, and compare them with the tax paid. Of course, that will reduce one part of corruption. And it is not irrelevant to have data for the sake of fairer and fairer distribution of social offerings and various certificates and confirmations. I agree that this way the tax burdens of citizens can also be better deployed. One thing is not clear to me enough, I don't know if I'm right, I don't know why you're not going on right now, not predicting the creation of a central database, but, if I understand correctly, it says when you're waiting to establish a personal identification number in all official records. I think it might take a little bit to reduce the efficiency of the system. It seems to me that it is better to go immediately to the creation of a central database, and as soon as this one is realized, it enters the central database. I don't know if I understood all that well. So this electronics today very quickly and effectively solves and for all the reasons that we have heard today from both the minister and all the representatives and the clubs, indeed this law should be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8065	Thank you. Dear Representative Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8066	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. In fact, I believe that the Law on Personal Identification is one of those reform laws that certainly exceeds its role only in the tax system. So, first of all, he is one initiation, one contribution to a major networking project, informing the entire public administration. And in that sense, he only surpasses his meaning, so within this tax system story. It is, above all, a significant contribution to public administration reform. The public administration is of which we expect it to be in the function of solving and problems and the everyday needs of both our citizens and our businessmen, so that it is in this sense and in the function of developing entrepreneurship. We know that in the past we have had a problem with the risk of investment that has been tied up, above all for the Homeland War, for the climate, for the problems of the environment, for political instability in the environment, etc., but if we are talking about the level of foreign investment, then we should certainly mention the problem of bureaucracy, the problem, what we can also call the jargon "salter ribbons" etc. in the public administration that certainly conditioned and, in some ways, influenced those most persistent entrepreneurs, and some foreign investors gave up on these investments. What was the problem with such a situation? First of all, legacy and mentality. The legacy related to the past system that didn't work in a way that time was money and recently spoke of by the prime minister himself, but we all have as citizens and entrepreneurs of such experience, so they all kind of went through that story with the counters, walking from office to office, with extra paper, documentation, etc. And I think that this law is on the trail that by unifying, networking and informing the public administration should solve some of these problems. Also, we had this public administration sometimes selective or, I'd say a little bit of a negative selection where we didn't have a selectively developed reward system, so that's why some, perhaps even of the most qualitative personnel, left the state administration. Also, the following problems were regulations that once produced additional administrations, produced new jobs, increased administration, produced new paperwork and documents, but I think this law lays the foundation for a radical change of work and mode of work in the public administration. So, we will also have, in connection with compliance with EU legislation, but also with the mechanisms of supervision of all these strong laws that will be introduced, which will be brought into line with European Union legislation, we will need to increase supervision. And there will certainly be additional employment in the state administration, which will primarily go towards increasing inspection services, so supervisory services that should ensure better supervision of budget spending, but also in the area of support, subsidies, more efficient tax collection. And now that we are already coming to this supervisory control mechanism and problems in the public administration, then, I believe that this law is in some way a turning point and that information and networking of the public administration system is important to remove all these and inherited problems and generally problems in the system. Have the opportunity at all times, so by entering 11 digits, to have insight into real estate, stock, movable property of every citizen, every legal person, to have the opportunity to compare and property with those incomes, with all that is taxed in the Imput in one place. Also, we think that it is the right to reform and change for the better, and it is certain that it is in some way the top of the effort that is being put into the efficiency of the public administration. This law will not solve everything, so it takes a lot of energy, a lot of money to invest, a lot of training from people who will work to establish this system to bring the system back to life. So it's not going to work overnight, but we're convinced that in one continuity this personal identification number will be easier to track down cloudy business, that it will be easier to track down those people who have no title, no knowledge, no knowledge, no knowledge of what they're doing, we don't know what they're doing, they're driving Mercedes, they're building fairies, they're going to enter the spider web of this identification code, and they're going to have to prove to whom and where they pay taxes, and they're not going to be spared by the state border. Because this identification number will be exchangeable, it will also be comparative at international level, thus it will no longer be possible by crossing the border, or by moving that capital and all that has been illegally acquired will not be able to cover the trail. We had in the past the case that, as the State Secretary provided information, it was somewhere over a thousand checks precisely of these targeted, suspicious cases, however, that the court mainly dropped those applications and those charges, because simply the tax system and in general such a system could not support it, so he could not give sufficient evidence and could not continuously monitor the whole situation, so on the acquisition of property and the payment of taxes. What is also important is that abuses should be prevented. So there must be a clear procedure, a clearly prescribed protocol by which these data, what the minister was saying, can be used and who can use them at all. Therefore, these data must not be used for daily policy purposes, in dealing with some people, etc. but there must be a way therefore and a possibility at all to access these data, manipulation of these data. So through strictly prescribed procedures, through strictly prescribed protocols, so you know exactly who goes into that database, who takes and what data. This must not mean being in a function of disqualification of people and persons, and it should not be allowed in the system not to say to anyone's conscience, is it, that it rests on the conscience of the man who works there, but that through strict protocols clearly requires all of this. In the end, I express my pleasure by passing this law. I also express my satisfaction with the announcement made by the State Secretary that in the future and the introduction of this lobby, this identification number, the State Tax Administration, for all citizens, could fill out tax returns and organise this whole business which I think is really to the satisfaction of all those who pay it, who are required to meet those applications annually. We believe that there will be better tax collection, better control of state money, that the administration will be reduced and what I think is important from this debate, that all clubs, and that I am on our own committee when we had, will simply support this law, because to implement this reform system law, we also need to have a consensus of policy and consensus of the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8067	Thank you. Dear representative of Vesna Buterin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8068	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The adoption of the Law on Personal Identification will allow all citizens of Croatia and all Croatian companies but all foreigners living and working in Croatia to have their own personal identification number by which all existing official records and registers will be connected. The introduction of a personal identification number will create a systematic and comprehensive register of data on citizens and businesses across the country and with the largest number of data available by various institutions so far. By means of a new personal identification number, the state institution will be able to identify all available data on any citizen or company, including what is most important, and the situation of its assets. This number is actually a unique number that will serve as an identification of a citizen or company in the tax, health and pension system, i.e. in all segments requiring identification. In the long term, its introduction will reduce administration costs. The personal identification number is also part of Croatia's obligation to introduce a transparent system of value added tax in the vicinity of the European Union and introduce a single number for the tax liability. The personal identification number will lead to the establishment of a single register of all taxpayers, one of the preconditions for an even stronger and more effective fight against corruption. Namely, the record of who owns and how he acquired what he owns provides an effective basis for anti-corruption struggle. The introduction of this number will also introduce order into the fiscal and financial system of the state and reduce the possibility of fraud, and one of its objectives is to increase the effectiveness of the tax system of state and other institutions and, as I pointed out earlier, the fight against corruption. What is important is that it will allow for the monitoring of changes in the property status of citizens and legal persons, the comparison of changes in property status with reported incomes and receipts, and an insight into the property status of citizens for the precise determination and monitoring of the right to social benefits and benefits. The personal identification number will also allow to address the problem of tax avoidance, as each purchase of property or securities will simply have to be entered. It will no longer be possible for someone who does not report incomes, buys cars or real estate because the personal identification number will record all his legal earnings on which the tax is paid, but also any purchase of real estate and other property. There won't be a situation that, for example, Someone who's registered at the Employment Service and receives social benefits, buys an apartment or a car. The introduction of a personal identification number will lead to the need for most taxpayers to report actual earnings, thus largely limiting the grey economy, while money flows will turn into legal spheres. Tax authorities will at any time have full and extensive insight into all financial operations of each individual and of any legal person. The personal identification number will provide tax authorities with the possibility of disclosing illegally acquired assets, which has not been the case so far. In addition, the identification number will be able to identify and monitor more precisely who has the right to social compensation and tax and other benefits, which will ensure a fairer distribution of social benefits and facilitate the control of false claims of social benefits. And finally, what I want to stress is that I welcome and fully support the final proposal of the Law on Personal Identification Numbers, because it will, in addition, create preconditions for a transparent economy and systematic control of corruption and economic crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8069	Thank you. Dear Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. She's gone. She's losing her right to debate at this agenda point. Honorable representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8070	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. A brief, few reflections, in an individual debate, regarding the proposal for a law on personal identification number from the point of view of ensuring a more effective and fairer system of social giving. The fact that it is imposed is that accurate monitoring of the property status of citizens, social assistance will be given to those who really need it and to a greater extent. From the point of view of the units of local self-government, cities and municipalities in which social councils work, precisely with the aim of just assistance to the population who have social status. The personal identification number will facilitate the data collection procedure for the property censorship of individual potential users and the payment of other types of assistance received by the user. The fact is, it hasn't been easy so far. Citizens had to collect documentation in several places, and sometimes there were problems with establishing the truth, because they did not deliver everything they needed in addition to statements that they did not have certain types of assets or certain types of income to be shown when applying for social assistance, which could not be confirmed with certainty. Also, those "skillers" of social assistance, in different places in the city, county or various social institutions used opportunities to obtain social assistance, and none of the aid providers had full information about it. Besides, it also disrupts the entire social picture of a city, a municipality, and the state itself. The introduction of the personal identification number of both of these deficiencies will be completely excluded or at least reduced. Citizens will collect the necessary documentation more easily or the social council secretaries who are usually also professional employees in cities and municipalities will do so. The documentation will be complete and true. It will also be possible to combine all types of income of individual social categories in a wider area, all of which are simplified by using a personal identification number for each user. All of the above will lead to the recognition of the right i.e. the real social categories of citizens who are in need, who will be available with more resources from different sources. Finally, this can lead to a fairer and more rational distribution of social resources to create a real social picture in a particular city, municipality, and the whole state, and this is exactly what European countries' experience shows. Because of the above and all other positive shifts expected by the introduction of a personal identification number, I am giving full support to the proposal for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8071	Thank you. Dear Representative Zeljko Turk.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8072	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Allow me to speak with a few words. Therefore, it is undeniable that the personal identification number as the number being introduced as a permanent identification mark in Croatia, something which is an integral part and way of behaviour in democratic countries that use different terms, from a tax or fiscal number or a third name. Therefore, it is also a clear fact that we are also doing part of the harmonisation with the European acquis by the proposal of this Law on Personal Identification Number with its final proposal, so why not mention it one more time. It is also important to say that, in the context of the establishment of this law, and unlike the home number, the introduction and application of the OIB is a strict respect for the privacy of citizens, which I welcome in this case. It is also important to say, as Mr. Minister has said, and in the working materials we have in the frameworks of not full or about 100 million kunas from the state budget of the intended funds, it is clearly and unequivocally concluded that the determinations and allocations of that personal identification number are carried out without the direct cost of the persons to which they are assigned. What I find particularly important is that all of that data, all of the official records that happen in everyday life, will no longer, in the most part, reflect the very direct life of the citizens and through their continuous departures in front of the counters. But regardless, certainly through this very unification of this system, there is a reduction in total red tape in both state and private services, regardless of what this project itself will require and increase a number of people, while at the same time increasing the overall working efficiency of the national and in-house apparatus. It is clear and true that the adoption of this law is merely an assumption and a prerequisite for its observation, and that it is through the competent authorities and its application in practice that we will be able to fully assess its effectiveness. Certainly, it is clear and true that a much better review of the property of citizens and legal persons is being obtained. This is what I consider to be a particularly important inflow and flow of money, which is the problem not only of these young Croatian democracies but also of the democracy of large and most developed democratic countries, and in this way I certainly believe that we are reducing the possibilities of that money body that we all call money laundering. But here I dare say one more thing. Kola Kovacevic spoke of how important it is in a quality way to protect the use of all this data. With respect to this principle he said, I think something still matters. Well, the important thing is that, through the transparency of these data, it will definitely reduce the possibility of daily speculative and various information that is related to the public and those through which the flow and flow of that money can be interesting. So let me make it concrete. Two to three days ago, in daily presses named Željko Turk Mayor and Assembly MP, doubts of his total income received through the Parliament, through part-time incomes in the city's headship, through fees in the municipal company's assembly and nothing caused, nothing encouraged or due all day or two, three days he had to explain to the press both to my representative public that what was expressed doubt and it was a good deed and when the press turned out to be true something that didn't correspond to the truth. I deeply believe and warmly hope that exactly the data presented in financial terms that speak unequivocally of the overall course of all finances will make it impossible in a good way to make daily political and speculative speculations and that I am sure that the largest part of all of us here today are here in this Chamber or, at times, justifiably but in most cases, unwarrantedly exposed to the performance of our daily personality, especially as a public person. I want to say one more thing, that with the situation of the inflow of funds and its controls in this way and definitely more quality, we can track all those categories that belong to the social category of our people and people and today as mayor and I believe that I share the fate of all of you I have found myself many times in the day-to-day decision-making situation in my city and in my city as part of the social contributions from the city budget we have almost two million kunas. When we are in different ways in certain topics and problems from the Department of Social Care and to other segments related to the social community, we are looking for information about people, about legal persons who at some point need help or in some other way make a decision. Definitely, in such predictable ways transparently and in the short term, we will have data that will clearly and unequivocally say that we are making the right and quality decisions that will help those who need it but also on the other hand, and we are all witnesses in good works, respond negatively to those who have often found themselves in a situation that either seek funds or other forms of assistance and do not have the conditions or need to do so. As I said passing this law was only creating basic assumptions for its application. Therefore, implementation in practice in which the competent ministry is headed by Minister Shuker has an extremely large and delicate task, that in the time that we are really facing the law and implement it in practice. Of course, under the draft of this law, I am giving his support and I will personally vote for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8073	Thank you. Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go. Thank you. He's giving up the debate. Mr. Ivo Grbic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8074	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, respected colleagues and colleagues. I support the Proposal for a Law on Personal Identification, with the Final Proposal for a Law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Act of 24 April 2008. The bill is a paper proposing the introduction of a personal identification number into the legal system of the Republic of Croatia as a permanent identification mark for every person in the Republic of Croatia. The introduction of a personal identification number shall result in two reasons. First, because of the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the acquis of the European Union, i.e. the harmonisation of the Croatian tax system with the acquis of the European Union, because we all know well that the current single number of citizens does not meet the European criteria set and that the public use of this number in the Republic of Croatia is also prohibited. Secondly, by connecting all official records kept in the Republic of Croatia on persons and property in a way that would be used in the records of state and other institutions. The introduction of a personal identification number will allow for easier and more effective monitoring of changes in the property status of citizens and legal persons and will compare them with the reported receipts and incomes or taxes paid. Namely, the personal identification number monitors both the inflow and the flow of money, creating preconditions for systematic control of corruption and economic crime. In addition, it will be possible to identify and monitor more precisely the right to social compensation and tax and other benefits and to ensure a fairer distribution of social benefits. The introduction of a personal identification number will also enable the data to be connected between all official records, which will certainly facilitate citizens' collection of documents in the exercise of their specific rights and reduce administrative and bureaucratic burdens and costs, given that the competent authority will only be able to request and provide the necessary information from other authorities. The bill states that the personal identification number is unique, immutable and irrevocable. This is not considered personal data, thus enabling its public use, which distinguishes it from a unique home number of citizens who, as personal data, are subject to the rules on the protection of personal data. Otherwise, a personal identification number under official duty would be determined and awarded by the Ministry of Finance, i.e. the Tax Administration, while the adoption of a law enforcement regulation would be in the power of the Minister of Finance. The proposed law sets out and assigns a personal identification number to individual Croatian citizens who would receive the same birth, i.e. after enrolment in the book of citizens. Then, legal persons based in the Republic of Croatia who would obtain it by establishing and enrolling in the competent registers and foreign persons who would obtain a personal identification number at the time of their monitoring in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, this proposal requires that users of a personal identification number, both national authorities and units of local and regional (regional) self-government and legal persons entrusted with public authority. The bill also provides for fines for fines ranging from 1000 to 10000 kuna, a personal identification number debtor. And also responsible persons, users of a personal identification number if they do not use this number in a legally prescribed manner. The law would enter into force on 1 January 2009, from when, I would say, a personal identification number would begin to be assigned to quotes "new persons". While all existing records should be accepted for all persons found, it is also a prerequisite for the establishment of a central database as a central register at the level of the tax administration, certainly by prescribing strict provisions on availability and use of data from that database. While it would be used for the international exchange of personal data of this number after the accession of the Republic of Croatia to membership in the European Union. Finally, I believe that it is necessary to support the adoption of the Personal Identification Number Act, which represents another step in the overall informationisation and modernisation of the state administration, which will primarily increase the effectiveness of the tax system, and in general increase the efficiency of state institutions and reduce corruption and economic crime, as well as bureaucratic and administrative burdens on citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8075	Thank you. We have a replica of Boris Matkovic. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8076	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I think this proposal to introduce a personal identification number should be supported for many reasons, but I will only list one that is only what will be complemented by the example of previous presentations of some colleagues. In fact, we as people who work in local self-government units, especially us as mayors of chieftains, have experienced various unpleasant, therefore, scenes. Specifically. At my Vrgorec, there is not one year, not a month, to say the least, not one day, and that distinguished colleagues from the opposition SDP, along with two independent doctors, are constantly us... The state's attorney's office, he comes to the city of CRIMPOLICIA, and he's never done anything, so no one has ever morally answered or apologized. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, I think the introduction of this personal identification number will provide an opportunity for each of them to see what Boris Matkovic has and every person oxy in the city and in the headship. And then she'll be able to if she thinks it's a spot and act. Therefore, I believe it should be supported in any case by the adoption of this personal identification number.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8077	It's Madam Representative Neda Klaric's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8078	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs. Well, I'll say, don't mind me saying that I've actually been suffocating from the very beginning to read the proposal of this kind of law, up to the explanation of the motionor in the person of Mr. Shucker, and equally, here I am, enjoying actually also hearing the club representatives, as well as individual debates where we will definitely agree and unanimously support the adoption of this law because there are a lot of good reasons for that. Among which the first, in fact, to my humble judgments, is the quality of life of all our citizens, i.e. citizens in the Republic of Croatia, because it guarantees definitely total economic growth in the whole of the Republic of Croatia. It also prevents corruption to a significant extent. And what I am personally very sensitive to is a more just principle of subsidiarity and solidarity when we talk about the welfare system. Especially when we know that users of these social care laws and other laws will no longer have to walk and knock on a hundred doors when they are pressured by diseases, indifference. Equally, all those situations that have actually enabled them and created preconditions for the use of their rights in order to be spared in one place from all actually trauma and thus to exercise their rights by understanding that Croatia is, among other things, a fair and social state. And this is a law that actually, in a very systematic and effective way, solves and leads definitely to a fair and social state. What is also important to say is that it assigns an identification number to our citizens does not fail, or imposes no direct cost on all of them. I have no intention of repeating everything that our fellow MPs have already said, but some situations, i.e. I will have to repeat the observations among all the official records that we have today, we will in our daily lives allow our citizens not to go through the traumas of collecting documents in order to be spared in this way, and not to say how much in coordination state service will save time as those professionals who will be able to use and use that time precisely in terms of expert advice and assistance to ignorant parties who definitely and the General Administrative Procedure Act guides people who are employed in the State Administration. There have also been talks on the monitoring of the inflows and the flow of money, which is definitely a very transparent way of managing and systematically monitoring everything that is going on in the area, and mainly in order to combat corruption and economic crime. And a fairer distribution of social contributions and control of false claims of social benefits, do not mind, but I will have to dismember because we definitely did not talk about this parchment, that social benefits are purely for the sake of the Croatian public. It contains a lot of rights that our citizens are achieving from different sources, starting with the Resolute Ministry of Health and Social Care through units of local self-government. In part, there were talks about both large and not only sensitivity but also budgetary items in units of local self-government that go even over 5% of the total budget, and we are talking about rights to maintenance, rights to personal disability, one-time cash aids and what we also haven't heard here, and this is a significant circle of our citizens who, using their legal right of accommodation in the institution of social care, are mainly when we talk about third-age persons in this area, which I am sure this Law on the introduction of an identification personal number very well solved. Because the person who appears in the situation of a person who offers a lifetime of restraint when I'm sure he will be prevented from using the Institute to help and pay the difference from the full cost of costing services and accommodation in the institution of social care and the amount of pension that our user has. It's also important to say that the Ministry of Finance will because here we've heard observations about how it's going to happen, how it's going to be possible to implement the law, how we're going to follow it. But what I will say again is that I am personally pleased that the Ministry of Finance will conduct a thorough education campaign and, of course, in this case and in the implementation of this law, a significant role will be expected by the media. In addition, there will soon be a separate regularly updated website of the Ministry on which the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will be able to obtain all information, which is related to these. Since this law brings multiple benefits to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, I will warmly support this proposal in the procedure of adopting an emergency procedure by uniting first and second readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8079	Thank you. Mr. Nenad Stazic. Here you go. He's losing his right to debate this issue. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go. There isn't. Mr. Representative Kreso Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8080	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here I am in this opening part before the debate clubs I was led to finally hope, but now I am absolutely certain that one law in this House will be unanimously accepted. Because together we are all aware of how important this law is and how important it is for the Croatian state to bring it as quickly as possible and as soon as possible. We have before us a proposal for a law on a personal identification number that proposes the introduction of a personal identification number into the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. At first, I would like to say something to all those who had previously performed in public and said that by adopting this law, it was supposed to be delayed and there were such words today even though the debate on this agenda point is quite tolerated a few sentences. Here I will try to say it in a way, for good ideas and nice words it is never too late, because good deeds and good words have always come well independently when they come and when they are spoken, or when those deeds are done. I am convinced that this way of thinking is positive, that it spreads one atmosphere to optimism, means a brighter view of our future. Because sometimes I get the feeling that here in the Parliament when we're discussing certain topics of that optimism we're missing. In this context, I am happy to remember the words of our prime minister, Prime Minister Dr. Eve Sanader, who on one occasion, I really don't remember exactly when it was and where, said “so, gentlemen dear, I personally have never met a pessimist who has achieved any goal.” I think that these words are really big words and that we must in future in the Parliament, I invite you to think in such an optimistic way because that way we will also change the perception of our public, this negative perception that has towards Croatian politicians and us politicians sitting in the Croatian Parliament. I am really looking forward to the fact that today's debate on this agenda is really tolerated and in this spirit, and I hope that even in future such discussions will be more and more and more. I will now say something about the very proposal for a law, or try to define the concept of a personal identification number, to distinguish taxpayers and users of a personal identification number, to refer to the reasons for its implementation in the legal system of the Republic of Croatia, to the intention of introducing it, to the purposes, or to the objectives which are intended to be achieved by the application of the law, and to something about the possibilities that this law opens up to us, or what the introduction of a personal identification number offers. Therefore, the personal identification number is essentially a permanent identification code of the obligor, which will again be used by the users of that number but also by the bonds themselves in all official records in their daily work and in the exchange of documentation and data. The number consists of 11 digits and I think there's been a lot of talk about it and there's not too much to repeat in that part. In accordance with Article 5 of the Law, but also by the logic of things, the bonds of the personal identification number are persons who are defined by the Ministry of Finance, or the Tax Administration, so it is legal and natural persons in the Republic of Croatia and the foreigners for whom they were acquired, or the cause of their monitoring. On the other hand, the users of the personal identification number are those who will use that personal identification number in their daily work, so in all official records and in the exchange of data, this applies to state bodies, local self-government, legal persons who are part of or part of the majority ownership of the Republic of Croatia, legal persons financed from the budget of the Republic of Croatia, in part or in full and those legal persons with public authority. In my view, there are three fundamental reasons why this law is adopted, i.e. the introduction of a personal identification number. The first reason we can find the need to bring Croatia's legislation into line with the acquis of the European Union. The second reason is that the unique number of citizens does not meet European standards regarding the number of digits, and also because of the known fact that this number is secret, i.e. that it can only be used in cases where the person concerned approves it. And to me, the third reason I think is most important. We need this law, in fact, for our own sakes and for our political will, and I think that's the fundamental and basic reason for this law. The introduction of a personal identification number intends to create assumptions for the international exchange of data from tax records in which the Republic of Croatia will be obliged to participate only when it becomes a full member of the European Union, as provided for in Article 21 of this Act. Finally, it will link all official records kept in the Republic of Croatia, which will require the modernisation of the state administration and the creation of information assumptions for all those who will be users of the personal identification number. I think that's what the minister, Mr. Shucker, has talked about a lot. Respecting, therefore, the following fact that the bill provides for the integration of all official records by the competent authorities through different registers, registers, lists, queens and similar records of water in the Republic of Croatia, about persons, i.e. bonds of numbers and their property, property rights and obligations, that the Ministry of Finance, i.e. the tax administration of power is easier and more effective than so far to monitor changes in the property status of citizens and legal persons, will compare it with all the reported receipts and incomes as well as paid taxes, and will not get a significantly better overview of the property of citizens and legal persons, that they will be able to determine and monitor more precisely who has the right to receive social benefits, and tax and other benefits, and that they will be able to respect the fundamental constitutional principle under which they all have to be equal. So before the law, and also in terms of tax policy, the tax burden must be evenly distributed. Personally, I believe that the adoption and adoption of this law will give rise to assumptions for the achievement of several basic objectives which are why the law is actually proposed. The first objective, as I see it, is that Croatia's tax legislation will be harmonised with the acquis of the European Union. Secondly, the efficiency and efficiency of all state institutions will be increased. Third, instruments will be introduced that will significantly contribute to the uncompromising orientation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but I am confident that all of us in the Republic of Croatia will also contribute to the fight against corruption and crime. A fairer distribution of social contributions will be achieved and an administrative control mechanism will be established. The equal treatment of taxpayers and the even schedule of tax burdens will be ensured. At the end of a very important mention, I consider one possibility that opens up the adoption of the Law on Personal Identification Numbers and its full establishment in the service of records. It refers to the formation of so-called. Central database. Of course, at the state level at the Ministry of Finance. In addition to prescribing strict provisions, and this was the case, Mr Kovacevic spoke about the part, strict provisions on how this base would be used. This possibility will significantly contribute to an irregular way of getting rich. Since any inappropriate change, i.e. a change in the property which, I say, is going to be able to identify itself very quickly and give a check of the regularity of such a change. For all the above, I return to the beginning of this debate where I said I was sure this law would be passed unanimously. And here's what I'm saying at the end of this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8081	Thank you. Now we're gonna stop the debate and continue at 3:00. The first is Mr Goran Marić and then Davor Bernardić, Zdenko Franić and so on. The MPs will proceed with the session. It's Mr. Representative Goran Maric's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8083	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the acquis of the European Union is an extremely difficult, professional and challenging job. Despite the high pressure of the deadlines, the efforts of the Croatian ministries resulting in many laws and amendments to the laws adapted to the acquis of the European Union are visible. The proposal of the Personal Identification Number Act proposes the introduction of a personal identification number into the legal system of the Republic of Croatia as a permanent identification code for each person in the Republic of Croatia. The introduction of a personal identification number is necessary in order to bring Croatia's tax legislation in line with the acquis of the European Union, i.e. to bring Croatia's legislation in line with the EC Directive on the common system of value added tax as set out in November 2006. All this is necessary with the aim of full membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union. The clumsy legal treatment of the unique number of citizens and the number of digits that do not meet the European standards and criteria set have led to difficulties in practical application. At the same time, there is no adequate data exchange technology in the official reports. Therefore, according to the negotiations on full membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union, the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration has committed to introduce an identification number for international exchange of data from tax records, as well as for connecting official records in the Republic of Croatia. There is no doubt that the adoption and application of the Identification Number Act will have multiple positive effects. First of all, it provides equal treatment for all taxpayers and will enable the Tax Administration to monitor cash flows more effectively and efficiently, but also the property situation and natural and legal persons, in particular with regard to the income and income ratios compared to the taxes paid. It is clear that due to a better review of the property of citizens and legal persons and better insight into all cash flows, the proposed Personal Identification Number Act will also be an important instrument in the fight against corruption and money laundering. Since, in practice, the application of the right to social compensation and tax benefits has often been wrong due to incomplete information on the property situation of this law and the introduction of a personal identification number, it will be possible to determine more precisely and justly who has the right to social support, i.e. compensation or any tax relief. Although the first stage of the application of this law does not provide for the creation of a central database, the ultimate objective after the full establishment of a personal identification number in all official records and after the replacement of the parent numbers, the unique home numbers of citizens, the system numbers assigned by the tax administration, is to create a central database. I am particularly pleased with the fact that in the economy there will be a unique number of legal persons, with all institutions from the commercial court, the Tax Administration or the Statistical Office of the Republic of Croatia. It is obvious that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has prepared this law excellently, that it has provided the necessary means to implement the law of 100 million kunas contained in the total funds provided for in the information and modernisation of the state administration as a whole. For all this, I support this Law on Personal Identification, and I look forward to applying it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8084	Thank you. Dear Representative Davor Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8085	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Well, unfortunately this law is late, we'll back it up, we should back it up but he won't solve anything. There has been a talk of curbing corruption and there has been a talk of monitoring assets from some of these things that will bring benefits to this law as well as limiting the level of certain social rights, tax reliefs based on income monitoring. However, to do so is not enough to enter an identification number. We need to build a central database. Now, Mr. Minister, I'm going to read what the law says. The creation of a central database is not foreseen in the first phase, however, with the full establishment of a personal identification number, and the full establishment will be established at the end of 2010 and conditions will be created for the eventual establishment of a central database. In fact, it says here that the fight against corruption, i.e. The establishment of a central database is merely a target that is de facto delayed. Whoever knows little about the database and the systems knows that it is already needed to work on it, as can be agreed on by the Treasury at the level of local self-government units. As the State can deal with the State's treasury, so the central database, i.e. on the basis of existing data, can also be drawn up in the database. access to the creation of that central database, and gradually by introducing that number, it would add just one more style by 2010, just one more style. And this de facto wants to apply this law by 2010 to the conclusion by 2010, and then only afterwards does it leave time to eventually form a central database. It is not good and I am glad that both colleagues Kovacevic and counterpart Nenadic, and something said by counterpart Maric on the trail said and discussed in the same direction. Furthermore, if you want to fight corruption, if you want to register citizens' assets, then you need to define the first few things. It's not enough just to pass the law. In addition to that central database, this law should be a subsidiary and a complete instrument for obtaining the property itself by banks. A complete instrument to introduce order into grant books where there's still a huge mess. The Minister then Vesna Skare-Ozbolt, in late 2004, was strongly moved into this reform and with assistance, or with suggestions from the European Union itself, but the good part of the cases shows that this is going very slowly. And only when this system is actually created through the Central Database that will include these elements, which can already start working today, is then the obligation of that tax number is another style that when fully introduced in 2010, I agree that it should be introduced in 2010 and fully introduced, but cannot wait all the time for that Central Database to be made. That's the problem. Because this is how you put off the de facto problem for four years. This is a clean delay in the problem. I support the adoption of this tax number according to the European Commission's two six 111s guidelines, but I also urge the ministers to agree on the establishment of the Central Database as soon as possible, as I quote: "... the ministry will only create the conditions for the eventual establishment of the Central Database...". I think that this can be done very easily because this information item, which is also in the assessment of the resources needed for the implementation of the 110 million kuna Act, is also easy to move towards the establishment of this Central Database. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8086	We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8087	Thank you very much. Although I'm reluctant to correct it, but this time I have to correct the incorrect allegations of a colleague who said that my thinking was on the trail of critical reference to the Central Database, which is not true. I said I'm glad the fact that the ultimate goal is to establish the Central Database. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8088	Thank you. And another correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Kreso Filipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8089	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, a colleague's already in... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8090	The vice president.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8091	Vice President, I'm sorry. But at the beginning of his presentation, he said one claim that absolutely does not stand, that this law will not achieve anything. Well, I'm asking myself a question. The minister here has been talking for at least half an hour about the law and everything the law will give us, so, when a full personal identification number is established, what is going to happen in this country. Also, a large number of us who appeared in the debate spoke about what this law gives us. I think that this claim is absolutely not standing, and I just felt obliged to correct that incorrect claim. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8092	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Minister Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8093	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, let me get this straight. Maybe here, in this text section, there was a tipfeler. However, at the time you give the first identification number, you are essentially starting to create the Central Register. And I'm sorry about this guy. The thing is, at this point, tax administration informers are already working on how to convert these data that we have and that basically we, the tax administration and customs as parent bodies, can already start to function 1. 1. And it practically starts to create the Central Base, and in 2010, it's the deadline for all institutions to enter it. My apology, probably some type of tipper, 'cause I know I said it was fixed. It may have been awkward, but here I am. If intervention can, therefore, the Central Register is practically beginning to be created right now. [[/Intruder: How about a little louder?]] We are now going to make a big meeting after the law is passed, starting with the President of the High Court of Commerce, the President of the Supreme Court, the Minister of Justice, the Minister of the Interior, the Attorney General, so the most relevant institutions, and with the informers, we will see what we can do technically. And the other thing, which is very important, which laws must change during this second half of the year by obliging these institutions to implement that number. So, no one's thinking, believe me, I would never propose a law to you, and let me tell you that the Central Register will be established in 2010. I mean, everything I said before would be funny. Here, so I apologize for that, let me say if you can accept the tipfeller. So, the Central Register is practically starting to form from the moment the law is passed. The tax administration is starting to prepare, because I said that the logical thing is that the data that we have is based on a unique parent number just turns into... Well, it'd be crazy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Those vast materials that the State Administration Office has, therefore, in the books of origin, which have the Ministry of Tax Administration, which are bound to a unique home number not to convert this and practically already at that moment you have already one large Central Register and then it just needs to be expanded. So, if I may once again say, as far as the Central Register is concerned, its establishment starts practically immediately and here, an apology for that tipfeler and yes. There's no need for amendments, because in law it's a purely technical matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8094	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. Dear Representative Zdenko Franić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8095	Honored Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs. It is once again, true, a truly commendable law that must be passed in order to bring it into line with the acquis of the European Union, but also to finally make that famous JMBG go into the irrevocable past, since it was indeed a number that was more revealing than hiding. Therefore, the proposal for this law proposes to establish an identification number which will serve primarily the Ministry of Finance for many purposes, better tax collection, better social transfers, etc. However, the question arises how the state administration will deal with the same administration's abuse, as the administration, there, receives another tool that can potentially terrorize citizens. Like. When you come and give her a bunch of documents, including a ID card, and the clerk on the other side of the counter perversely says the housekeeper. So what do you need, ma'am, if you have a I.D. I couldn't get out without a housekeeper, but she's ruthlessly saying "homewife." So what happens when they look in a similar way for confirmation with an identification number? The law provides for certain penalties, but for taxpayers who do not use an identification number, and for responsible users who do not use personal identification numbers to connect data in official records. However, nothing is said to prevent these possible abuses that simply because of red tape should be expected. The minister mentioned information and information technology several times. I want to know who's actually going to be the one to do the algorithm for the random selection of these digits. I would still rely more on scientists than I would on IT. For example, scientists from the Ruđer Bošković Institute have their quantum rendum bit generator or quantum random bit generator as a non-determinist generator of random numbers whose randomity is based on the internal stochasticity of physical processes, photon emissions in semiconductors and detection of the resulting photoelectric effect. So the point is that it is really a random generator of numbers that cannot be breached and here I plead to take advantage of the knowledge of Croatian scientists who have also supercomputers at institutes owned by the Republic of Croatia and will then eventually reduce the costs of informing this state administration because it simply needs to network the already existing infrastructure that is and thus owned by the Republic of Croatia. The minister mentioned that informationists were also discussed with the way to send the information once the number was assigned to citizens and citizens, but here is simply a simple solution how this number can be distributed and it is called the Croatian Post Office and all banks when they send pins or new credit or bank cards. So a pretty simple solution that also implies one of the institutions that are still owned by the Croatian state or government. It is as if the Ministry already pre-deploys any errors in issuing these numbers because one article also says what should be done if two personal identification numbers or more personal identification numbers are assigned by mistake, then the one that was first assigned, etc. is used. However, the algorithm to check, to pair up two of the same numbers is quite simple and I don't think it should even be thought that such mistakes would happen if the whole work is done by experienced informers and I hope scientists do. The problems of land books have already been mentioned. It's really probably not in the domain of the Ministry of Finance but it's just a huge job because there are such experiences to say in one and the same land particles are registered the same person but in different addresses and because some street has been renamed from, say, 8 May on the street of Paul Hatza, and then the person inherited from her mother the property and you have the same name and last name but different addresses essentially the same street. So who will solve such cases, whether Gruntovnica or the Information Government Service, or the Ministry of Finance Service that will assign these numbers? By the way, I personally think that it is a truly commendable step that will contribute to the reduction of the catastrophic situation in Croatian garneries. However, I fear that in Zagreb in particular, this will increase the very bottleneck in Gruntovnica even more. As far as the confidentiality of the data is concerned, the Law amending and supplementing the Personal Data Protection Act has taken a step forward, but the question is how and how to protect this new information that should not be made available to everyone. Still after that debate on the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Protection of Personal Data, for example, JMBG, although it is a secret information and should not be exposed to everyone on the Internet can still be found on the web pages of one minor daily party news war on the right of the province, which has the website "http://www.vesnik.com/www/vesnik.com" and ultimately, including your JMBG Mr. Shuker and Mr. Jarnjak. So I'm breaking the law because I downloaded it to my computer. And finally, I'm asking a rhetorical question. Since we're going to introduce this new identification number, I'm asking whether by adopting this law and putting it into effect, the conditions for the defence registry to be published because the Secretary of Defence Jadranka Kosor here in the Parliament on the current clock has pointed out that the government has no reason not to publish a register but that it is prevented by several laws, especially the one on JMBG, which has changed Racan's government by declaring it a secret and this information is listed in the register. Now, when that secret information goes down in history, I ask the question is the Defense Registry going public? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8096	Thank you. You'll give me my JMBG later. Let's go to
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8097	Dear Mr Vice President, Mr Minister, here, I would say, it is a very important law, not just for all the reasons that have been highlighted throughout the morning, such as new services, state administration modernisation, administration, harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union and so on. The important aspect that is not sufficiently highlighted, I would like to highlight it and it is very, very much related to this law, concerns the impulse that this law can give to the development of information and information technologies in Croatian society, strengthening software engineering, strengthening companies that are related to information communication technology in the Republic of Croatia, because this law, when it is being implemented and implemented, in terms of complexity from the aspect of software engineering, is one of the most demanding projects facing the Croatian state administration, i.e. our administration. In any case, the project is very challenging and complex, both from the aspect of the design in which all state administration bodies must participate with the necessary levels of understanding and knowledge, not only of business processes within their competences, but also in terms of knowledge of certain information, communication technologies, so that this design and development of that system really meets the needs. And the day he entered full production gave a really desired contribution in terms of quality and improvement of the work of the state administration and administration. And I often point out that our state administration needs not only to be modernised through stronger and more quality administrative opportunities that we associate with people but also with technologies that allow for far more quality, more efficient and modern performance of all important jobs, of which it is of particular importance that we also address corruption. And that law seems to me to need it from that aspect specifically highlighted. ... strengthening the communication information amount in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This should be, it could be one of the export products of the Croatian economy given the complexity and challenge of the project and the fact that only a small number of countries in the European Union have such systems in full production without errors and in terms of full functionality. The management of such a large information and communication project is certainly a challenge from the management aspect and not only for the entire state administration, but also for all those companies that will participate in its implementation, i.e. in its implementation. I also think that this project and the law as a whole is very demanding from the aspect of the development of interoperable databases since the fact that in the Croatian state administration there are various databases of IBM,... Furthermore, the issue of information security, i.e. the secrecy of data, has been highlighted and highlighted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The data contained in this information and communication system under this project are extremely sensitive. And I hope that through all the high standards of information and communication security, they will be well protected from all those unwanted... which could be misused by this system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is indisputable that this project strengthens the horizontal integration of the state administration body. This is always the most important part, in terms of the management of a complex system such as state administration and administration, which is very often divided and poorly linked between individual vertical branches that are related to individual ministries. A whole series of jobs determines the quality and effectiveness of this system, primarily from the aspect of each other's communication, these common transactions that require good and quality cooperation from all authorities of the state administration. It is indisputable and the following, what needs to be determined, which perhaps this moment is not clear, the design of that system is a complex multi-year job. It stressed that the system will start working on January 1st 2009. However, its full functionality, its full production, given the complexity of the project, given all the requirements, will take a little more time and we must be sure of that. And that is why it is important that what the minister pointed out this morning, the preparations for the implementation of this project have already begun long ago through the cooperation of individual bodies of state administration, ITs in different ministries, and this is the best sign that this project is already in phases by way of distance preparation from the aspect of the definition of all those business processes which, when clearly and precisely defined, can be about the aspect of software, development engineers in relatively short time and realised. Some problems that are certainly important and may not be sufficiently mentioned by encryption, data protection. Given their sensitivity, given their importance, the requirements, I would say far more modern, more complex algorithms than those mentioned here, and are related to pseudo random number generators. Although this is one problem that can be attractive in academic terms, these lengths of these sequences of pseudo random generators, the numbers of 11 digits have long been absorbed with any kind, I would say the scientific aspect. Respectfully, everything that my colleague Franic said, which was also done at Ruđer Boskovic, but almost 35 years ago on Ruđer Boskovic, Professor Solcek gave me first lectures on pseudo random numbers generators, and then I probably still have something in my head about it. It's an important aspect that will require special care. Second. I emphasized the compatibility of the database "ORACL D2, SQ" and so on. Authentication and authorization of the same important part of the problem so that only those as the minister stressed in this information and communication system can enter in accordance with, exclusively with their respective responsibilities in the relevant workplaces this morning. And here, since time expires this law will be an impulse in employment. I hope that Croatian companies will also do so in the high-tech information and communication technology sector. This law when it goes into full production. This system here will be a contribution to so-called. E connectivity. So, by connecting and better linking the state administration body and in the best way, it will affirm the E-Government as one key and important innovation contribution of this government here. However, technologies always offer new opportunities. These technologies are recognized by those who use them. They set new requirements, new services, new services and I would say it is a permanent job and an important contribution not only to modernising the state administration and state administration, but also to strengthening the competitiveness of Croatian companies operating in the technology sector. Indeed, this law will require a whole series of sublegal acts and regulations to regulate its implementation. And without any exaggeration, the law gives and can contribute to strengthening the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. Laws that cause, improve technologies and services as there is a reverse process when technologies that, in order to penetrate in society, require appropriate laws and in any case, I think that aspect of this law and its implementation deserves the proper attention that I wanted to stress in this short contribution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8098	Thank you. We have one replica. Dear Representative Zdenko Franić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8099	Compared to the pseudo random number generator, I would always prefer a random number generator based on non-determinist processes such as quantum decays. It's just that Poisson's statistic is superior here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8100	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished MP Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8101	To respond to the replica. Well, I think it's an area that's been up to date for a long time. There's a whole series of algorithms. Therefore, it is only one of the algorithms that is the innovation and the result of our scientists at the Ruđer Boskovic Institute but also those I mentioned also meet these needs and in this sense it is not the most challenging, it is not the most difficult part of this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8102	Thank you. And the esteemed representative, John Hanzek.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8103	Dear Vice President, I hope you do not want me to repeat what Mr. Franjić and Mr. Ćosic said to the professional and termological plan, because I can then sit down immediately and submit the application or ask for the application back.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8104	Only in case of correction of an incorrect quote must you repeat.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8105	A little joke since here we prove that there are people in this House who can really and professionally engage in debates, even though it makes me happy. I'm not happy about one thing, and now I'm gonna be a little naughty before the honorary fellow Shucker gets in line. Unfortunately, some representatives from the ruling party have gone a little too far in reading the reasons and repeating the minister, so I think we understand and understand what the minister said in the opening statement and that the manual numbers should not have been read. But I'll say next. First I'm going to tell you about the unique birth number as some kind of lesson. A unique home number has been introduced to actually get the citizens rid of all those unnecessary administrations and walking from the counter to the counter, that by a unique home number you get instead of carrying on any request from the state administration or any body derived from the birth certificate, today the domicile or the like. Unfortunately, though, the state administration and administration are generally inclined to demand further confirmation with all this that you are the person hiding behind that parent’s number. My wish and intention is when I speak of supporting this proposed law to be in the framework of both government and state institutions, and there is a primary task of the minister actually to understand this as one we can say a strategic task which will require not Mrs Matkovic in terms of European integration, but approximately in a similar function of a person who will be co-ordinator and the whip of God in driving other bodies that need to be transported so that this system becomes functional and usable. Namely, as I said in the replica of my colleague, the data we have today are those that say that every citizen of the Republic of Croatia is in a variety of 16 records – pension, health, MUP, home books and the like, and actually the biggest problem is importing. First, the integration into one database, i.e. from one centre, the availability of all these data, given the different levels of information in different bodies. In addition, there are natural resistances that are ours and that we do not give to anyone, and I think that this task should indeed be seen as one of the most priority tasks other than the harmonisation of the laws with the norms and laws of the European Union. Because it is an assumption not only of creating a sense of justice and equality among citizens, but also of proof that this country is really serious about moving towards the standards and norms of life that exist in the European Union. When it comes to it, the minister explained something, so I skip it in my additional arguments. That's what I thank him for, and that's how much I'm gonna cut my exposure short. What will be recorded, or recorded, and what will be returned. I think that in the context of these tasks and the objectives that the ministry needs and the foundation of this law, it is also a question of supplementing and amending the laws that some things limit. One of the questions is, I'm going to seduce it popularly, where's the line? How long will we go back to history to determine that someone from illegal or illegal acquired property? From socialism to today, it's one of the problems. Evidence from abroad, heritage, everything else has always been due to social peace and strong situations, always politics, we are part of politics, always politics there little walking on the fingers because it is a sensitive issue, but I think that one of the topics should be that, and perhaps even in front of this House to see what these are, a time period in which the competent authorities will be able to examine the legality of acquired assets, or actions that are contrary to the law, so that the competent authorities can then process them and sanction them. And so I repeat, I support the absolute adoption of this law, the introduction of a number, I think it requires general mobilization within the ministries, but I repeat also within the framework and the government bodies, as well as those bodies that do not belong directly under the government, but are obliged to serve, serve these tasks related to this identification number. I think that the citizens will only understand the benefits of its introduction, but anyone who wishes well for Croatian citizens and the progress of the Republic of Croatia must support the movement with one demanding, challenging, for some will be resilient, act and activity related to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8106	Thank you. Dear Representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8107	Mr. Vice President, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a law on a personal identification number is a law that needs to be supported and that is already highlighted, for the sake of greater efficiency of the authorities' institutions in the fight against corruption and economic crime. But it's also for reasons of proper and evener distribution of social benefits. However, this law also has a significant newspaper in the information and networking section of the administration, as well as in the processing of the central database. And kill, the weakest point of this bill is full application, early 2011. All of us who think as quickly as possible of being effective in the fight against corruption would like it to be a shorter time, but also if we are realistically observing, which problems await the legislator and especially the government in preparation and administration, but also other institutions for the implementation of this law, then we always wonder whether the deadline is real and possible by the end of 2010. Because it is not just about the administrations for which the Croatian government is responsible, it is a question of the judiciary, and relations always between the judiciary, the efficiency of the judiciary and the Croatian government, or the executive government, is a particular problem. We know what the objections to the efficiency of the judiciary are, we're talking about land books and realistically, when we talk about property, we have to say that we're disappointed what we've been doing since '90. I don't know if we can be satisfied, and now we're expecting two years of significant shifts in that part. Also, in the part of the issue of illegal construction, the issue of building permits and everything that will need to be well prepared, it is necessary, within 2 years, to significantly update, arrange, prepare, in order to be able to have the full effectiveness of this bill. Therefore, our particular doubts remain whether the administration will change so much in those two years, that it will be an engine and power to prepare all of this and, on the other hand, whether what the minister said, some of the powers to which this law does not correspond affect that administration to slow down and kill that deadline. Therefore, they would say the weakest point of that law is precisely that transitional time. I don't think we should extend it, but we should really insist on it, but aware of all these dangers, I'm convinced that the government will take its measures, means through planning activities, through control of deadlines, but I would suggest that we in the Parliament consider it right in that part. Whether by the end of the year the government is proposing an action plan, which anyone should do to really make that deadline of, let's say, 2 years be realistic, that we know that someone will do what time, because I say these are except the administration at the state level, probably the administration at the local, regional, but also the judiciary. In view of the fact that, with some kind of action plan as we do for the negotiations on the European Union, we also try to see for ourselves from Parliament level by the end of the year. Why? so that every six months we might be able to control what of that action plan we realized, so we don't surprise ourselves somewhere in half of 2010 to kill we had a lot of resistance, that we didn't have full participation of individual participants in all of this, that this most critical point in law and removal. So my debate is only going in that part of whether we should support the government and this law in this very way that through the action plan and the control of this action plan we follow how much all the other participants will be together with the government on the way that we really have everything ready in 2010 and that we can say that we have done this job responsibly. So maybe, do clubs agree on a proposal to conclude that in some way we would be really serious, given that we all evaluate, I mean seriously, that these additional conclusions would give us an additional ton of seriousness, given the two-year term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8108	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8109	Well, if you'll just give me one more minute. Here's what I was about to say, Cain kind of depressed me with his "who's yawning, pitting" thing. I don't think we should order that from these speakers. I believe that we have completed the process of reviewing conversion and in this process we have named names, last names, irregularities, illegalities, I believe with full application of this Identification Number Act we will get a real and a lot of indicators, so then we will be able to compare those indicators with those actual records and the audit findings. There is always a question that will then be ahead of politics to try to assess whether tax papers, new tax incentives, etc. try to sanction all those who have sinned in conversion, etc. Are we going to think about some constitutional changes? But I simply think that given the so negative charge of citizens towards the negatives of conversion, we must be aware that every step we take will allow us to sanction those who have become rich in the processes that have caused so much negative mood in Croatia's citizens. And I think this law must also give us the opportunity to think that we will have different solutions in dealing with all the illegalities.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8110	Thank you. It's definitely now. It's a deal. Honorable representative of Denesh Shaw.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8111	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to engage myself with a few words in this debate, although after the quality and detailed explanation of Mr. Minister and the debates that were heard here before noon and today encourages me in a certain way, because I feel that there is a commonity in this respect and will now be difficult to repeat or say, and I expect that this law will be adopted almost unanimously. I would only say two or three words in fact and ask myself a question or ask for clarification on practical application, i.e. I would like to point to the situation in everyday life what this could mean. My first question, i.e. the clarification, relates to this Article 5, where it stands like this: The personal identification number, which determines and assigns the identification number, and then continues not to read everything stands, by the natural and legal persons who have a cause for monitoring in the territory of the Republic. I mean, maybe this isn't exactly how I get the clearest idea of how it's going to be quantified. And another clarification and I will ask the question in the next way in a practical sense. A month ago, I was approached by a citizen who is a resident of our municipality, who lives in Germany. He's been working for 10, 12 years, and he normally pays taxes there. And he came up with one question because after a peaceful reintegration he bought with us real estate when they were very cheap, and now he estimated that he didn't need these properties and sold it and earned it. Officially, according to tax records, books about 3,4 thousand euros and he asked me a question, as he says. In his tax administration where he pays taxes in Germany, they told him that he is obliged to report all his incomes and those he earns and gain outside Germany's borders. And now he asks me what are the chances of me talking to a simple folk dictionary like this, that there in that tax administration somewhere in Hamburg or Cologne finds out about his earnings here on those properties because it would be very fatal for him, he doesn't know of course. But now I know that there are certain bilateral agreements to avoid double taxation, etc. But in a particular case, I don't know what that means right now, but maybe it's less important to us. There is a much more important situation inverted, when our citizens who live and pay taxes in our country, that is, in this case Baranja or the municipality of the Princes of Vinograds, and realize and work outside the borders, I mean above all in our case in Hungary, in Vojvodina, etc. and there are more and more natural and legal persons who, of course, do not respect the administrative and state borders in this respect, will be very specific when they live up to what is being said here today, help and simplify and finally ensure that our tax administrations finally get inside the EU or/and finally out of the EU and that we have a clear picture of the state of income and natural and legal persons for those where we are interested. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8112	Thank you. And the closing word on behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, Honorary Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8113	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Minister of State, Secretary of State. Here at this end of the debate on this agenda point, i.e. on the Proposal for a Law on Personal Identification Number, I must say that I am at some point satisfied and happy because I am almost not going to say for the first time, but we have one unity of the Assembly almost in all discussions except here and there some small considerations. I didn't mean to start with a number called a personal identification number, but I have to tell some people that even with certain thinking, that this number should actually be called a personal identity number because it's not a basic identification number, it's actually a property number, a personal property number that identifies someone's assets either in the form of movable property, real estate and everything that someone actually owns. When there were talks about the very application of that number, that is, the figures that are foreseen and that's 11 digits, then here I would actually say was one academic, of the academic importance of a debate, how that number form. It's just like the one where he asked someone to give him grain, the Persian emperor, so he starts with grains in the first field, and then every time twice as much. So here, in these 11 digits, by mixing these numbers, by mixing the digits can fit the whole, to say the Republic of China, or all the Chinese, as far as can be made and invented, to say the numbers, identification numbers for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, it is not at all questionable or the problem is to do for each citizen its identification number. Indeed, after this, the point before which he was in, I would say a little unarranged and unedited, and also a mixed bill on the prevention of conflicts of interest, express satisfaction, support and welcome the introduction of a personal identification, let me add, an estate number of 11 digits. There was a dispute especially in our press and amongst the citizens, whether it was coming into collage with that JMBG that had 13 digits, if it was something else. We know that we spent 100 million kuna on change of ID cards, so to print new ones in 2002, but actually this time it's not about that, it's actually about introducing order, and in accordance with European positive laws in tax policy, although I believe that only introducing a personal identification number is not the only measure of tax policy that can introduce order in this sphere, let me say, life. It is clearly very important here that what someone mentioned, the connection, so 16 links and 16 areas in which, therefore, dealing with this problem in the Central Database, for which there is Shuker, the minister is kept to himself, that it can be done relatively quickly, given the information and resources provided in the state budget for the Ministry of Finance, can be done relatively quickly by the Central Database. I have no reason not to trust him, because he was really convincing in his answers to our questions. Here, thank you very much. I support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8114	Thank you. And finally on behalf of the motionary, Mr. Minister Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8115	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I have to say that as a bill promoter, in fact, on behalf of the promoter, I feel an extraordinary satisfaction and pride. To be honest, one such debate, you will-you won't have to bid a man on it, and I'm glad that today, both the left and right sides of the Parliament, about a really crucial problem, are united and that we all think alike, and well, there were no essential problems. Here's what my colleague Linic said about the action plan. This kind of project is practically impossible to do without an action plan. We've already set up a management project at the Ministry of Finance. I will now, after the adoption of this law, call for a meeting with all the leaders, so to the ministers, the Supreme Court presidents, the Presidents of the High Court of Commerce and to present to them the plan and timetables that we need to do. Because we're basically the ones who have to force their associates to do that part. The second thing, it's definitely funny to even talk more about informing the state administration. And what my colleague Hanzek said, that's 16 records. This is exactly the reason to lift those 16 records, this is exactly why citizens don't knock on 15, 16 doors anymore, this is why some reference can't carry out their own self-will anymore, wants to give someone or won't give someone anything. Now, simply if you bring here on a proposal from the government or some other law, then all those who are obliged to implement it must implement it. And that is why we have stressed that the personal identification number is also more effective in the functioning of the state administration. Why the flow of money? Well, I guess it's enough for everyone in this country for 17 years talking about someone getting rich on some account. 'Let's finally say, we have a system with which we can track someone. And colleague Cain or Damier, however you wish, since we were here together in this assembly, there won't be anyone who's in the pit, jamio. This law will only give to all state institutions on a plate what they have. And now it's a matter of state institutions and bodies that need to conduct an investigation to determine whether in a legal or illegal way someone has come up with it, and he knows when it's being found that someone has come up with something illegal, what needs to be done. So thank you very much. And I remain one, in fact, due one answer, to Mr. Shoja yes. It is with this law that many information will be obtained from both outside and inside. After all, some citizen of ours, if he works outside, if he's earned something, he hasn't reported it, he'll come to Croatia, spend that money, whether to buy some movable property or real estate. He'll have to give an explanation at the moment from which the funds bought it. And he won't be able to tell her anymore, I took the loan and I bought it. But, guys, that loan somebody's got to pay back. That's a loan somebody's got to pay back. And then his annual incomes, when they're put on a monthly and annual loan rate, then it's clear whether he has or doesn't have a cover. But I've talked a lot here today. So, thank you very much, everyone, for the suggestions, and if I can, Mr. President, on behalf of the Proposer, we would like to accept these amendments, so, from the Legislator's Committee, all nine amendments, and this proposal on Articles 13 and 20 will be considered, so if necessary, we will give the amendment to the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8116	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. 15, The Final Proposal of the Law on Personal Identification Number is an emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.E. Number 52. The debate is closed, amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and MP Goran Beus Richembergh. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to be shown to the amendments. The amendments of the Legislative Committee were already adopted at the session. I ask Minister Ivan Schuker to declare his amendment to Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8118	The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8119	I'm opening up, actually, is there an agent here? It's not. We must declare an amendment that the government does not accept. Who's in favour of this amendment? No one. So the amendment wasn't accepted. I am voting on the final draft of the law together with the adopted amendment of the Legislative Committee. Who's in? Please, let's get on with it. The result? The law was passed by a majority of votes, 79 votes for and 1 abstention. We move on to: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Act with a final proposal for a law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 40 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Legislatives. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Minister of Finance, Mr. Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8121	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Under this law, the Ministry of Finance has fulfilled its first quarter quota and its obligations regarding legislation. The four who attribute us are not ours, but from another area, but since they can't propose those laws, then they are proposed by the Ministry of Finance. But this is what I was obliged to say for my colleagues. So, this is a technical amendment where the Republic of Croatia has committed itself to harmonising the provisions governing, above all, non-privileged origin and provisions governing the deadlines for the payment of customs debt at the latest, that we will do so by the second quarter of 2008. Therefore, as regards non-privileged origin, the provisions governing the preferential origin are fully aligned, also the laying down of the guarantee in the transport procedure, the more precise arrangements are made for the guarantee obligations of the principal obligor as the holder of the transit procedure, the possibility of reducing the guaranteed amount or the exemption from the obligation to pay the guarantee, the booking and the deadlines of the debt, the payment period of the customs debt, in accordance with the commitments and deadlines of compliance with the legal gains and the harmonisation of the time limit for payment of the customs debt in such a way that, instead of a valid period of 30 days, the payment obligation within periods not longer than 10 days shall be established. And a brand new incrimination is introduced that sanctions the incorrect indication of the amount of customs debt in the customs declaration. And we must also say that in the past few years, unfortunately, it has been. Therefore, it is now clearly defining what this means to be an incriminating act both in the end and in the context of these customs changes, the personal identification number will be a very important instrument. Here, ladies and gentlemen, as soon as possible about these technical changes and the harmonisation of the Customs Code with the legal gains of the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8122	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8123	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Act, with the Final Proposal for a Law under the designation P.Z.E. No. 40 sent by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by Act of 4 April 2008, with a proposal to comply with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament adopt the proposed law by means of an urgent procedure which this High House has adopted. The proposed amendments and amendments to the Customs Code continue the process of gradual harmonisation of Croatian customs rules with the customs regulations of the European Union with a view to achieving a greater degree of compliance. The customs code of the Republic of Croatia is one of the obligations undertaken in Chapter 29 of the Customs Union as well as in the negotiating position for the mentioned chapter and one of the measures laid down in the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia for the accession of the European Union for 2008 and includes the obligation to comply with provisions governing the non-privileged origin and provisions governing the deadlines for payment of customs debt by the second quarter of 2008. All of these are contained in the statement of conformity of the draft Act amending and supplementing the Customs Act with the legal property of the European Union and the legal acts of the Council of Europe, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has submitted with the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Act, with all the provisions of the primary and secondary sources of European Union law. As already mentioned, the basic issues which are regulated by the proposed law are of unauthorised origin and registration, i.e. delay and deadlines for payment of the debt. What does this specifically mean and what is changed in relation to the applicable law? In the first place, this is of privileged origin, so in Article 27(1), paragraph 2 is added, which reads: "The customs administration may not question the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article in the event of serious doubt, require additional evidence to be submitted which would clearly confirm that the origin complies with the rules laid down in the applicable rules." which means that the Customs Administration will have the right to seek further evidence of declared origin which has not been possible so far. This Regulation shall enter The customs law shall be fully amended by the following efforts to bring the provisions in the process of transport more popularly than transit and the removal of the remaining differences in our legislation relating to the guarantee obligations of the holder of the transport procedure. It is the basic obligation of the participant of the transport procedure to lay down a guarantee, i.e. Security for the settlement of the customs debt which may be incurred by means of a transport. It also defines the possibility of using a common guarantee as well as the exemption from the obligation to lay down a guarantee. Amendments to Article 226 The customs law shall define the deadlines in which debtors must pay the amount of debt in cash or in other payment appropriations and the possibility of postponement of payment. In addition, the amendments to Article 241 have more precisely defined the offence as well as the fines. The envisaged entry into force of the law on 1 July 2008 is due to the need for the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Resort Ministry of Finance to bring in the implementing rules as well as the time needed to train the customs service. What remains inconsistencies after this harmonisation in the customs code? These are risk analysis and a common risk management framework, further electronic risk exchange between customs administrations and customs administrations and the European Commission. Furthermore, the obligation to supply data for all goods entering or leaving the customs territory of the Community. Then, the submission of the entry and exit summary declaration and the status of the authorised economic operator. In the end, they are not entirely in line with the provisions by exempting customs duties. European regulations do not provide for the release of customs duties on fire equipment and passenger cars for disabled persons. All these discrepancies in certain areas are conditioned by the specificities of the Customs Union and the rules of the European Community, making it impossible to fully align it until the full membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union. As indicated by the proposer for the implementation of the proposed law, it is not necessary to allocate specific resources to the burden of the state budget, but rather to make the proposed changes subject to the conditions for faster payment, better efficiency of customs services would lead to better collection of the revenues of the state budget and a potential increase of the same. Finally, I would like to say with my congratulations to the Minister and Associates at this fifth speed, which moves towards the preparation of acts in the Ministry of Finance that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will accept the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Law, with the Final Proposal of the Law, with a wish and aim to finalise the acquisition of the Republic of Croatia's full-fledged member of the European Union Customs Law in its fullness as a European law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8124	Thank you. Mr. Representative Damir Cain in front of the IDS club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8125	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. It might be good to open a story here about that customs inspector, Robert Matijević, but one other time. However, on the other side of this argument, it is literally said that the latest amendments to the Customs Code are primarily aimed at establishing security elements in line with the global objective of ensuring trade from threats and global terrorism, and on the other hand to allow customs services in cooperation with the economy as much as possible to facilitate and move international trade, etc. However, what is certainly the essence of this law on amendments and amendments to the Customs Code is reflected in the next dict on the other side, which speaks of the period of payment of the customs debt. In accordance with the commitments and deadlines of harmonisation with the legal acquis of the European Union, the amendments and amendments proposed are aligned with the time limit for payment of the customs debt in such a way that, instead of a valid period of 30 days, the emphasis is, now, the customs duty is paid within 30 days, the payment is now reduced to a period not longer than 10 days, counting from the date on which the debtor is notified of the debt.’ It is then literally stated on page 3 that the following relevant European provisions of the newly established provisions provide for the possibility that the Customs Administration may, according to the prescribed rules, grant a stay of payment of 30 days, but subject to the obligation to settle the debt. So this is about paying the customs debt. These moments, it's actually the taste of this bill. I dare say that the vast majority of Croatian businessmen are mainly those who operate with the European Union customs is not a fundamental problem. This customs duty, mainly on goods from the European Union, is relatively small. For example, a whole series of goods, such as natural materials coming from the European Union, means a whole series of these goods or products have been released by means of a clear reciprocity. This applies to Croatian goods exported from the Republic of Croatia to the market of one Austria, Italy, I don't know Germany, the Czech Republic and so on and that's absolutely fine. Customs is large mostly on goods that come from third markets like one China I don't know Indonesia, Vietnam more and more, and I would even say that it's okay because in a way we have to protect our market and we have to protect that institute of reciprocity. The problem, however, is something else that is worth almost nothing in Croatia, which we do with huge losses, which is still more than twice as much as imports, which, for example, is exports from Istria three times more than it exports to the average population of the entire Republic of Croatia or as the population of the County of Istria exports three and a half times more than the population of the Primorje-Gorski County. And that's what needs to be changed clearly, to finally start working, not to be philosophized now, to change that one investment I would dare say the working climate in the Republic of Croatia. What's Croatian problem number one? Problem number one at this point certainly isn't customs policy, so it's the law that's being touched. Problem number one is primarily VAT and the obligation to pay that 22% tax within 30 days. There is no such thing in the European Union that VAT in Italy and IVA do not know elsewhere what it is called, for example, paid within 30 days. If we want our growth rates to be twice as high overnight, then I think we should extend that VAT rate within 30 days to some longer period of time. Whether it's 90 days or less than 90 days is clearly being discussed. In one Italy VAT or their IVA is paid within 4 months. So that's enough time or time to turn you under quotes that goods, that you can sell them, that you can incasate them, that you can charge them, and that you can clearly base your obligation on a relatively painless basis to the state. It is clear to me to go now with the payment of VAT within 90 days it would probably be impossible in the Republic of Croatia, but I think each of us would raise our hands if VAT were to be paid in the future within 60 days. I think that at that time, a good part of the goods would be cheap and I think that tax collection might be higher, that customs offences would be smaller and that economic activity would be incomparably more intense than it is right now. One word as I said I want to believe that if we were to go in that direction that VAT obligation with 30 days of paying is adjusted by 60 days so that the economy would grow twice as fast as it is at this point, that there would be more jobs, that there would be more growth, that there would be more money, only then, clearly and more work in the Republic of Croatia, and perhaps that would not be appropriate for someone. Article 3 of this law, gentlemen, speaks of a guarantee. So that's okay about it, too, but I don't see any reason why you're shortening the time limit for paying customs at this point from 30 days to 10 days. If you put a burden on a Croatian businessman, I'm mostly talking about that kid, then you've got to let him breathe somewhere else. And if we squeeze him, we squeeze him, and we wonder that year after year, let's say the growth rates are less and less. On the other hand, let's say an unfavourable macroeconomic environment. We are clearly surprised why we haven't yet achieved industrial production from '89. A year. But on the other hand, we actually gave it to this little businessman. On the other hand, when I look at this legislative proposal, when I look at this possibility of a delay along with the types of guarantees, then I come to the conclusion that these big and future ones will be able to do anything, but that we'll just squeeze the little ones, not to say, shut down. Great people who often know, from Todorovic through TDR, etc. to finance and campaigns and so on, I can do anything, but the young in Croatia sweat will pour out, the blood not to say what they can do to settle their obligations. Someone's going to be cynical, so they'll notice, maybe that's the kind of policy that makes sense. Why? Because the big product of the policy is conversion, and small craftsmen or small craftsmen, small businesses are, above all, the result of labour, denial, markets etc. In that direction, I have the impression that this article number three is going in this law. So, the small one, it will be more than likely, the customs will have to pay within 10 days, and the big one will come very easily to guarantees through his business banks and, as a rule, you will pay the customs duty within 30 days. Who can you free of payments within those 10 days? Here is Article 3(5), e.g. those persons who have not violated or have not repeated a breach of customs or tax rules, persons who fulfil additional criteria of reliability may be granted the use of a common guarantee in a reduced amount of guarantee or exemption from the obligation to lay down a guarantee, means they can still be freed from laying down a guarantee, additional criteria include the correct use of the procedures for the transport in the Republic of Croatia during the previous period, cooperation with the customs administration in relation to the release from the provision of guarantees, information on the good financial situation and sufficient to meet the obligations of those persons and not to list these other criteria. So I'm going to say it one more time, that's actually the point. We and this law go hand in hand with a big one, but actually the small one law will be an additional burden and it is fortunate that those who work with, say, the countries of the European Union customs are not a major problem anyway, but VAT, while, for example, those who work with China etc. Customs is a dominant item. I cannot simply believe that we are always calling out, clearly to the European Union, that this European Union is forcing us to even make such commitments, the Croatian economy, we all know that, not the European economy, this is what we have created through this conversion, or privatisation, and in the old members of the European Union, the economy has nevertheless been created through some families, through generations, through centuries of work, isolation, etc. And I'd like to believe that this I.D. number we talked about earlier would solve that situation, but I'm afraid he's going to bow down to that capital himself. Why am I saying that? So I'm saying it for the simple reason that the vast majority of these, these big capitalists in Croatia 15, 16, 17 years ago, thought about living in a social apartment, so buy new tires for their car. And that's what changed them two by two, and today, what you're going to have with billions of kuna and to us, what we're going to do is normal. That something will happen to them, it won't. The audit has blessed the conversion. If these pillars of society that have become, in some ways, economic cariatides question, they would somehow shake or undermine the very foundations of this society. The European Union, on the other hand, is constantly asking us to postpone the ZERP, privatise shipbuilding, we have before us a Customs Law where customs will be paid, not within 30 days, but from 10 days, those who make their money know what is the change, but interestingly, this same European Union does not ask for, for example. one revision of conversion. And it also says enough about the European Union and what kind of community it is, what kind of morality it is, but what are we going to do? We all know that some Hungarians, Poles, Czechs today certainly live better in that community than they did before, and we should hope that fate will happen to an average citizen of this country. All in all, the IDS Club will monitor the debate. We're willing to vote for this law, but once again I'm going to say, this law largely suits the great, that law is at the expense of the small, the ones that are usually at this point, in this country fighting for naked survival. And unfortunately, as we see ourselves being implemented in these European patterns, business conditions are going to be harder, they're not going to be better, but maybe that tax discipline and everything around, so that environment is going to be better, so we should hope that through such an approach, everyone will eventually profit. All in all, I think those who are in the economy up to their necks need in some way, and they do not work exclusively with the European Union, that they should be largely skeptical and concerned about what will be passed in the future by this Customs Act bearing the P.Z.E. mark. Number 40.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8126	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club. And we have one correction, I'm sorry. Mrs. Dear Zgrbec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8127	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to correct my colleague Caine's incorrect allegations, where he said the revision gave her the blessing of conversion. In fact, we devalue the entire work of the State Audit Office, which has done this large, difficult job, identified irregularities, identified the holders of these irregularities, and the fact that the majority of the Assembly did not provide a legislative basis for sanctioning these irregularities. It's not the state's audit.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8128	Thank you. Let's move on. On behalf of the SDP Club, Madam Representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8129	Dear President, honourable ministers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. This proposal for legislation is a continuation of the 1999 process of harmonisation of the customs legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the customs code of the European Union, which is also the basic reason for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Code by an urgent procedure. The proposed amendments are primarily aimed at two seemingly conflicting objectives. The first is focused on speeding up and simplifying customs procedures, while the second is on training customs services to detect high-risk shipments, i.e. ensuring international trade from the current threats to global terrorism. Therefore, the majority of the amendments and additions are precisely provisions governing the non-privileged origin of goods, the laying down of guarantees in the transitional procedure, the recording of customs debt, the time limit for the payment of customs debt and the postponement of payment and other benefits, all in accordance with the negotiating position for Chapter 29 of the Customs Union. In this context, and in the context of criminal provisions proposed by legal amendments, an offence of the non-reporting of goods is more precisely regulated, and a special criminal standard sanctions illegal treatment related to non-reporting of goods of a commercial nature as well as goods whose import or export is prohibited or restricted. A completely new incrimination is also introduced to sanction the indication of the incorrect amount of customs debt in the customs declaration, and a more consistent definition of the infringement of the abuse of the right to exempt from payment of customs debt is given. Namely, the indication of the incorrect amount of customs debt mentioned this little hour and Minister Shuker was almost, i.e., almost normal practice in part of Croatian importers, making the same account and paid in the amount less than prescribed in which case, of course, the state remained short of significant revenues. This law should enter into force on 1 July 2008 where the Government should adopt the implementing rules necessary for the full implementation of this law. In addition, the period until the entry into force of this law would be used to train the customs office for the implementation of legal provisions relating to the registration and collection of customs debt, but also to adapt economic operators to a very important circumstance which my predecessor spoke of, so as to reduce the time limit for payment of the customs debt, i.e. to delay its settlement. Namely, the law proposes to reduce the time limit for the settlement of customs debt from the existing 30 to only 10 days, while at the same time making a kind of compensation for radically reducing the time limit for paying the customs debt, providing for the possibility of granting a delay in the payment of the debt up to a maximum of 30 days. It is clear that the proposed amendments aimed at cutting the customs debt collection deadline will create conditions for the greater efficiency of customs services for the collection of State budget revenue. So the national register will be filled faster and more generously, and from the position of the state, such a legal solution is very acceptable to the fact that it is harmonised with European customs practice. And what about cutting the time limit for paying the customs debt is meant by the other party, so the bonds that will pay the customs debt. If the State has provided itself with this harmonisation of the Customs Code with the legal property of the European Union with a European comfort for the payment of customs debt, that means the opposite for the economic operators. This synchronization must be a blow to their faulty liquidity anyway. In doing so, the most absurd thing is that the largest indifference generator is exactly the state, i.e. its large systems, starting from health care through individual ministries to Ina and the railways. Internal debt is growing, and it's actually very little to talk about. It is the country's job to take care of the economy by creating it with favourable macroeconomic conditions for development. Instead, it will reflect another European regulation without respecting the specificity of the Croatian economic daily life, first of all, the fact of the existence of a high level of financial indiscipline and long payment periods for both 90 days and no provision of the period necessary for adjustment. For example, our neighbours, Slovenians, have activated these customs provisions just before entering the European Union. If our economies are in a more unfavourable position than those in the European Union, the next fact that we all know is confirmed. Companies from Member States of the European Union are supplied with goods and, in particular, with re-compromisation mainly within the borders of the European Union, very little imports from countries outside the EU, so they pay very little customs duties. Unfortunately, these rules of the game on the absence of borders and free flow of goods for our companies will not be valid until Croatia enters the European Union. Therefore, since the middle of this year, our importers would have to pay a customs debt involving customs, excise duties, i.e. a special tax and VAT within 10 days. If the economic operator is late in payment at least one day, he is in customs violation and pays a tight interest. On the other hand, the state returns the pre-tax within 30 days of the application. So the payment deadline is reduced but not the return deadline, it remains unchanged, so it turns out that the state manages to take the principle as soon as possible back as possible. The state will retain the financial resources of economic operators significantly longer than before and will certainly not pay them interest for the use of these funds. Although it will make business harder for importers, the reduction of the time limit for the settlement of the customs debt will primarily be a blow to production activities. In order to implement the re-promaterial and to produce the product within 10 days, sell it on the market and manage to charge it to ensure the funds necessary to meet the commitments made, it will almost be an impossible mission. In addition to generating a new debt to the importer, a 10-day deadline for paying the customs debt will make life worse for the freighters. Technical problems in communication will be escalated by the forwarder, the importer, the finance ministry. For example, if the forwarder is in Zagreb and has to send the documentation to the importer from Split, 10 days will certainly not be enough time to settle customs obligations and all deadlines are linked to the new costs that will eventually fall back on the importers. Speaking of forwarders, I would like to emphasise the well-known fact that their importance in our domestic environment is far greater than in the European Union. Import companies in EU Member States generally issue their own bank guarantees for payment of customs debt. In contrast, Croatian importers condition their business with a certain forwarding house by obtaining a bank guarantee to guarantee the state that the importer will settle customs duties within the legal deadline, and we all know that the bank guarantees are extremely expensive. And the new incrimination introduced by this law sanctioning the incorrect declaration of customs debt is a new risk primarily for a freighter, with already existing that some importers of fraud must pay their customs debt. Of course, the forwarder can sue such an importer company clearly provided that the company is not shut down in the meantime and has waited years for justice in Croatian courts. A special story in the new Customs Act is the criteria for a delay in the payment of customs debt. It should be said that the proposal for a law, and in accordance with the relevant European provisions, only general conditions are laid down for the authorisation of a postponement of payment, as well as the types of procedures that can be applied in the approval of that delay, whereas the provision of specific conditions for the authorisation of the suspension of payment is laid down by the national laws of the Member States, so that the specific conditions will be defined by the implementing customs rules to be laid down by the Croatian Government. In any event, the authorisation of a delay is conditional upon the laying down of the relevant insurance instruments for the settlement of the customs debt. In addition to the possibility of granting a postponement, the possibility of approving other benefits is also prescribed in principle, but still without indicating the types of these benefits and the conditions of their approval. Of course, the approval of such special benefits is also conditional upon the provision of insurance and payment of interest in accordance with the interest rules. However, the customs administration has been left with the possibility of giving up the insurance claim, as well as the billing and payment of interest, if such requests would cause the debtor serious economic or social difficulties. So customs will autonomously decide what are economic or social difficulties and whom they will respect and whom they will not. It is only known that the benefits will be granted to reliable economies. Such an unscheduled, but at the same time extremely elastic legal provision is more than a suitable ground for manipulation and corruption, i.e. the guessing of political-like clients. The SDP club will support this law, but we had to point out obstacles that would devalue to some extent the quality of this legal solution in its practical everyday application. In our opinion, too much has been left to define rules and other implementing regulations and even only internal instructions. In one word, such an arrangement remains a very uncertain area, not even because of import-Global terrorism, but because of domestic political clientism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8130	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, Ms. Representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8131	Thank you, Mr. President. I will serve something that my colleague Cain mentioned in his presentation, which is that the European Union is asking us to privatise the shipyard. When we pass laws which are subject to compliance with European Union standards, the European Union is often used as an excuse for everything and everything. For example, the European Union, which is why I am glad that this is what my colleague Cain mentioned, is not asking us to privatise the shipyard. The European Union is asking us to make the shipyards financially successful and to phase out state subsidies. That is what the European Union is asking of us. And how we're gonna do that, that's our thing. And our project and plan is how this goal can be achieved the smartest way. Therefore, it is not good to use the European Union, I say this in relation to these amendments and amendments to the Customs Code, in order to justify whatever anyone remembers. So, we in shipbuilding, for example, must make the shipyards financially successfully operate and gradually obtain subsidies, and how we will achieve this, it is a matter of our wit, our success, so if you want our qualifications and ability to be members of the European Union, because that is exactly what is one of the criteria. So, not only do you know how to copy, but do you know and you are able to regulate your country yourself to operate within some standards that can be considered average or at least minimally European. As regards this amendment and the addition of the Customs Code, the HNS Club welcomes the appearance of this proposal in the procedure, because it also means, among other things, meeting some of the criteria for Chapter 29. - Customs Union. So something moved to meet the criteria in this area and enable us to advance in the opening of chapters ahead of us and if everything goes according to plan and if it works on time, then the opening of all chapters by the end of this year. So in that sense, this is a step in the right direction. My colleagues and colleagues who spoke before me mentioned this one disputed moment or disputed point in this amendment and the supplement relating to the reduction of customs duty payment, which is now 30 days reduced to 10. I couldn't agree more, and we at HNS support the safe introduction of financial discipline. The whole idea of cutting deadlines and introducing financial discipline. But financial discipline cannot be introduced in such a way that it is introduced on the one hand, and completely ignored on the other. So, if it is required that the payment deadline of customs duties be reduced to 10 days by 30, which is with the reduction of the payment period of debts that the state has towards different creditors and where the problem of the state, as the biggest debtor, is the problem of non-payment, i.e. the long-term postponement of payments that goes beyond one year, is my own debts, I would say, one of the fundamental structural causes of corruption in Croatia. We, when we talk about corruption, often talk about human nature, about changing culture, about various things that the state has nothing to do with and where the state has no place. But the postponement of payments or non-payment by the state is one area of corruption where the state has places and where the state can be very helpful, and where the state in one of our three biggest pains, and as far as entering the European Union and as regards quality services to Croatian citizens, which is probably the first criterion, which is probably the judiciary, corruption and public administration that mentions us not only the Union but also all the polls of public opinion that you look at in Croatia. What the state has space to do is not only to shorten and control payment deadlines when someone is obliged to pay it, but to reduce and control payment deadlines even more importantly when the state is obliged, because precisely by delaying payments of 300 and more days, the state creates a structural space of corruption. Therefore, this would be a good time when we are already so strict about those who owe the state and owe customs to apply the same strictness criterion to the state when it is obliged and we are concerned in the same way about financial discipline in cases where the state's largest debtor is in line to settle its debts within the deadline. I remind you that we've already been on one normal 60-day period, because the state has settled its debts within 60 days, and in that very fact, one big space for potential corruption space has been eliminated and gone. We've been back over three hundred days today, and we have the same problem again. Not to mention, there was a speech in this assembly this morning about, say, in 2003, we were in some 41st or 43rd place, I can't remember exactly, somewhere along with the Czech Republic, so in '99, 2000, we were in 71st place together with Burke's Faso, and in 2005, we were back in seventy-seventh place together with Burke's Faso. So it's obviously an area where something needs to be done. This law allows in certain cases and upon request an extension of this payment period from ten days to thirty days, so on status... how it was before the law was passed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It seems to me at first sight a good provision, but when you look at it a little bit better, and a colleague from the SDP warned about it, there are no clear criteria. There are clear criteria for common guarantees, but for whether you release the person "x" or the company "x" or you won't release the person "y" or the company "y" from paying customs in ten days and allowing them to pay for it within 30 days, there are no clear criteria for that. I warn you again, everywhere there are no clear criteria is the area of corruption. We can all be the best and the most honest, but always a clear criterion is a better guarantee than a word of honor. Therefore, in this case the laws do not go to the honorable word, the laws go to clear and transparent criteria. It would therefore be very important and it is certainly not a specific requirement of the European Union that there are no clear criteria, it is our job, to introduce clear criteria for determining therefore which do not recognise either relatives or friends or any other relationship, but only recognise the predetermined criteria where possible and by which criteria it is possible to grant an extension of customs duty from ten to thirty days. Fourth. This law introduces two new offences, so to speak, which are punishable potentially with a fine of 3,000 to 900 thousand kuna. It is one incorrectly stated amount of customs debt, and the other is that when entering the customs territory or exit, no customs declaration shall be lodged for goods or parts of goods of a commercial nature or subject to a prohibition or restrictions on import or export. These two additional provisions with the possibility of such high sanctions should also be more clearly defined and more precise in order not to be subject to abuses as they appear to be here. Finally, I ask the minister to perhaps explain, perhaps I have misunderstood this from this law and from the insight into practical moves, which is the case of the abolition of certain customs offices or moving customs offices from one customs access to the other and through that and through the freighter. The case I'm specifically talking about is the Buzet case. Does this have anything to do with customs equipment, does it have anything to do with the need to adapt to this law, or does it have to do with some other maybe moments that aren't mentioned here? But it would be good to see if, as a result of the application of this law, there is also a consequence of unqualified certain customs offices or certain customs crossings to carry out this job, and through this, it is also taking back the case that I referred to for the city of Buzet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8132	Thank you. Correction Mr. Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8133	Maybe it's not a correction, I'd like to be fenced in advance, you can interrupt me as soon as possible, but as far as this border crossing is concerned, or rather a truck crossing from Požana, Socherga to Kaštel, Istria, near Buzet. This has nothing to do with it, this time I really have to defend the government, but it has to do with all the crazyness, impertinence, rudeness of the Slovenian political leadership that has consciously done this to us, better said, to deal with a problem that can escalate in the full sense of that word in the tourist season. I want to believe that the Slovenian authorities will at least ease that ban and that they will allow a small truck crossing to be returned to Buzet more precisely to Požane, because what they are doing, thereby harming not only us but to a large extent and to a good part of Slovenian economists and Slovenian part of Istria.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8134	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Minister Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8135	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I am honestly surprised by the debate, above all, by Mrs Pusic, who again attacked the Ministry of Finance in a very unargumented manner, as she said a few days ago that the ministry did not make four laws. Madam MPs, with this law, the Ministry of Finance has fulfilled its first month quota and those four laws should know that they are in the jurisdiction of the Croatian National Bank and the DAB. So today in the Law amending the Customs Code if you are at the head of the National Committee then you should know that customs has just received excellent grades in Brussels and that just in the chapter you were talking about is practically before closing and that this law is not any invention of people in the Ministry of Finance, this law is a harmonisation with the legislation of the European Union. And let's not my people when it suits us to be full of Europe and, on the other hand, when the law is harmonised because at the end of the day this law was in Brussels and that there are as many irregularities as you have listed, that there is so much illogicalness in that law and that European legislation does not have it, and they would not simply give us the green light of this law or this law in this form would be referred to the parliamentary procedure. Secondly, you know that when I join the WTO, practically for most of the goods in the European Union, customs are no longer paid at all. Therefore, this customs giving is practically benign as regards Europe and there is Croatia in exactly the same position as the European Union's economies, as the European Union's economies pay customs duties on third-world goods. However, excise duties and VAT are not customs duties. The payment of excise duties and VAT is regulated by the Law on Special Taxes and the Law on Value Added Tax. But look, we can't come here and say it like that, coming up with this or that, not saying that European legislation is like that. If we're going to close this chapter, this law has to be like this. That's what you think isn't true. ... But Mrs. Pusic, you know a lot. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And now it's the same as not paying. I'd like you to tell me which ministry doesn't pay 360 days? You said one great lie. It was health care but the problem of health was five years ago today and you forgot that the Ministry of Development changed the plan for the construction of Croatian roads in 2003 and literally wrote inside that 2 billion and 400 will be paid in 2004. I ask nicely if you claim that one ministry, one agency which is the state budget does not pay 360 days to make it clear which, and here I am responsible for the Croatian public telling you that it is simply not true. However, you cannot at all live up to the fact that this state has a treasure and that it has a payment rhythm as budget users agree with those who need to be paid. But I repeat, this is the way to talk about the law and the chapter with which the Republic of Croatia is actually very close to closing, to talk about the law. Well, look. You said it. I repeat, you said the other day that the Ministry of Finance didn't make four laws, and it's just not true. ... No, it is not because three laws work by the Croatian National Bank and one by DAB. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And the Ministry of Finance is just because they can't be proposing the bill. And that's true. Under this law, the Ministry of Finance has fulfilled its quota of obligations to the law that was to be made. And secondly, I really don't see any reason to talk about something that just doesn't stand. Let's see today which goods are being paid by Croatian businessmen for customs duties on goods from the European Union and by which they are in an unfavourable relationship with the exchange of goods between countries that are members of the European Union. Perhaps a very small number of goods imported into Croatia from the European Union to which we may still be paying a minimum customs rate. But I repeat, like all members of the European Union, Croatia is paying customs duty on imports of third-world goods. And make sure that this provision on the possibility of delaying payments for 30 days, and it specifically states what entrepreneurs are who have no problems. These are those who are neither tax collectors nor those who pay all things together. And now look, you have one such provision in the law and such a law goes to Brussels for adoption and you do not get an objection to that provision in Brussels. ... But, Mrs Pusic, unfortunately, the Parliament can adopt but the point is that Brussels is finally giving the green light. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And you can't be a little big European and a little bit representing someone's private interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8136	Mrs. Vesna Pusic's correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8137	First of all, Minister, you're not here to argue with MPs. You're here to answer our questions. I'm correcting two out of a lot of inaccuracy. One is the fulfillment of why the ministry is responsible for this Parliament. Whoever's responsible for you is your business and your problem and you handle it with those responsible to you. We are responsible for you and your ministry absolutely according to the program that we adopted in this House was most late in the first and second quarter with the laws that it delivered, black on white exists. ... So look, and you will see. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I looked at it, it's clear to everyone, and everybody knows it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] As for the adoption of Croatian laws in Brussels, I used the example of my colleagues Caine. There is no provision in Brussels that should or should not be clear criteria for determining who is to be given 30 days. It's just that it's supposed to be that short term and how you're going to extend the deadline is something we can arrange in our Parliament. I should not be dragged to Brussels there when there is responsibility in Zagreb and in this case is responsibility in Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8138	Let direct communication, however, be not allowed in the rules of procedure. So you need to look for a word first. We can continue the controversy and debate somewhere else or we can open up a special agenda. We're going to an individual debate. Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. She's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Mr. Representative Ante Kulusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8139	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The harmonisation of national legislation with EU legislation is a process that has passed past countries on their way to the European Union. The area of customs duties is particularly interesting under the negotiations because the customs revenues paid by Member States are common to the European budget. The European Commission therefore pays particular attention not only to the establishment of the customs system as part of the integrated system of Europe but also to the regulation of a legislative framework that will be fully in line with European principles. These amendments and additions to the Customs Code, other than the fulfilment of commitments under the Union Customs Regulations, introduce a higher degree of effectiveness in the operation of the customs administration, in the implementation of customs regulations in accordance with European practice. The time limit for monitoring, for payment of customs debt shall be reduced from 30 to 10 days in accordance with European regulations, but the customs administration shall be given greater flexibility compared to the shareholders, and, to the benefit of both sides, the customs administration shall be able to grant, on their request, a delay in payment of 30 days, but subject to the obligation to pay the debt settlement insurance. Penalties are changed, are more precise and edit the description of the offence part of the non-report of the goods. Amendments introduce a new way of working in the customs administration in terms of monitoring, i.e. recording and collection of customs debt, and require a time of preparation. It is good because it is proposed to start applying these changes and supplementation with a small beginning, so not immediately, but from the beginning of July 2008. Since the amendments to these legal provisions are not only a mere alignment with European Union regulations but also of the added value and quality in the customs system, I fully support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8140	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8141	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, distinguished fellow MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in the provisions of Article 2(4). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. This Customs Code regulates the powers and practices of the customs office and the real obligations of the persons participating in the procedure of the goods being introduced, shall represent, transport and transfer to the customs territory of the Republic of Croatia or move between the customs territory of the Republic of Croatia and third countries. What are the reasons for the adoption of this proposed law? During the analytical review and the assessment of the compliance of customs legislation with European legislation in Chapter 29, the customs union has been identified as non-compliant areas and our country has taken the obligation to comply with clearly established deadlines, as colleagues have just said, and by the second quarter of 2008 at the latest, and therefore here today we have this procedure. The main objective is to fulfil the obligations set out in the negotiating position of Chapter 29 and the criteria set out in the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia for the accession of the EU for 2008, and further objectives include the pursuit of a coherent, more consistent harmonisation of the Croatian Customs Act with European and special efforts, and so far in... it is not said to simplify and speed up the implementation of customs procedures in order to achieve the degree of effectiveness of the customs office of the European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this respect, it is necessary to ensure that the customs system and the Croatian Customs Service and related economic operators reach the level of European customs standards at the time of accession. The obligation to adopt the proposed law is laid down in the European Commission's opinion on the application for membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union, the decision of the Council on the principles, priorities and conditions contained in the European Partnership with Croatia in 2004, the negotiating position for Chapter 29 of the Customs Union, and the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia for the accession of the European Union for 2008. It is true that the European Union does not need to be intimidated by small children, but also by the fact that we cannot go in terms of daily or private thinking, and when it comes to the customs union with two criteria and criteria, so when it suits us, we swear to the standards and standards of the European Union, and when it does not suit us, then those same criteria, we attack the criteria. It is true that on individual and strategic important segments related to the further work of the Croatian state in the battle related to all chapters within the EU, we will also know how to fight against the government and the prime minister, and today it is up to us to do a job in this process which is in this time-time and plotted. We mentioned important characteristics, so that the non-privileged origin is fully aligned with the provisions governing both the non-privileged origin and the subject and the question of laying down both the guarantees in the transit procedure and the period of payment of the customs debt, as well as the registrations and deadlines of the registration of the debt itself, where the provisions on the introduction of debt into the records are aligned, and in the section relating to the deadlines of the registration and the postponement of payments and other benefits. In my overall work so far, I have had the opportunity to deal with a business that was related to the business as a businessman and to the issues related to customs and the fact is and it is undeniable reality that today, in relation to the other countries of the European Union, both the customs rates and the communication are significantly improved, and today this is no longer an important and strategic problem of this Croatian state. But I'm going to mention it here one more time. It is also true that today, the Croatian importer with goods that comes to the Croatian border, until the moment when it has been unloaded, and at the same time with two drivers, all goods in the European Union come from the one who loaded it to the one who unloaded it, and it is undeniable that the Croatian economy is suffering extremely large losses today, taking into account European and world flows on the flow of goods, reducing the size of the warehouse and the faster way raw materials and goods from the beginning to the end user. That is why it is for us, and certainly within the framework of all the chapters that are related to access to the European Union, to make this period as short as possible so as to have the opportunity to compete in a high-quality and competitive way on the European and global markets, and in such a way that we can significantly and definitely influence our costs, and then the total price of the goods sold, and the profits of our companies. As part of this agenda, I will certainly support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8142	Thank you. Mrs. Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8143	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I'd really look back at Article 10. The final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Customs Code when the applicant proposes to prescribe a safeguard measure for the confiscation of goods and for goods subject to the infringement referred to in Article 241(2) and Article 243 in respect of which infringements so far have not been subject to a safeguard of confiscation of goods. It is stated that it is necessary that the provision of Article 241(1) and point 2 refers to the non-reportation of commercial goods and goods which are subject to the prohibition or restrictions on imports or exports, and therefore unlawful treatment with that product has a specific weight. As a citizen, however, the question arises as to what goods are of a commercial nature. I also looked at the Customs Act for a special definition in Article 4 but found no definition of goods of commercial nature. In Article 126, I came across a case of non-competitional imports, which is also not explained anywhere, which means. Furthermore, in Article 187(1) and (3), the term ‘non-commercial goods’ is used again, which travellers bring with them from abroad in the prescribed value, type and quantity and goods contained in consignments free of charge to natural persons in the Republic of Croatia, provided that these consignments are not commercial in nature and that they correspond to the prescribed type, quantity and value. However, what is a commodity of a non-commercial nature in a prescribed kind, quantity and value of nowhere a word. Where is it prescribed? If we look at the Customs Administration website, it's a quote from July 10th 2007. ‘Accountation of duty on imports, i.e. The reduced procedure will be applied exclusively to goods and articles of non-commercial character which the passenger introduces for his personal needs and the needs of members of his household in his personal luggage, and the assessment of whether imports of goods of commercial or non-communicative character are carried out in a specific case in relation to the circumstances with respect to respect to the quantity and type of goods as well as the frequency of imports carried out by the person concerned." Now we wonder whether a customs officer will, depending on how he got up without insult to them, assess what goods are commercial, and what a non-commercial character is and we are wondering whether, for example, 10 clothing items of that kind, whether they are commercial or not commercial. The answer sometimes seems to be that, sometimes not, and depends on every specific case as it states in relation to the circumstances with respect to the quantity and type of goods as well as on the frequency of imports carried out by the person concerned. So far, citizens have been exposed only to the fact that their customs officer is going to hit such goods with a higher or lower customs duty, and now, according to this proposal, they are going to lose that goods. The citizens of this proposal will understand the amendments and the laws as anything else, unfortunately, which they have long been aware of, which is that only they are, the vast majority of small people and that, that they are, that they are taxing on customs burdens while other large fish and large smuggling go unpunished. Is it little that their goods were bought for themselves, for their children, for their grandkids were charged with customs, and now they need to be taken away from them? But not cigarettes and oil tanks and gasoline, which involve big fish. Who was responsible for corruption? Little fish again. Who was responsible for the robbery in conversion and privatisation? I'm sure the big ones won't. Another example of absurdity. According to the Special Tax Act, on-board excise duties when one of our own calls it a tycoon imported a 10m-euro vessel will pay the same cost as an ordinary citizen on a wood vessel worth 10000 euros. Why? So because the excise charge is paid per meter of the vessel, and not according to value. So, what is, what is the message to the citizens? Someone's gonna eat meat, some potatoes, but statistics say they won't be hungry, so they're gonna eat stew. And I must repeat what my predecessors have said because of the ambiguity and uncertainty this law is actually a small burden as Mr. Cain said, and the big one goes on hand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8144	Thank you. Does the Proposer want it? Here you go. Minister of Finance Mr. Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8145	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you all for the debate, for the suggestions and suggestions, for this clean technical harmonisation of the law with the legislation of the European Union, and I would also like to remind you that according to the old Act on the Croatian National Bank and to the new one, and also according to the legal gains of the European Union, the Central Bank is independent and the Minister of Finance cannot order the Central Bank. So the Central Bank has independence. The Central Bank submits its report to this High House and cannot order the Minister of Finance to the Governor. On the other hand, the Deputy Governor is also the Deputy Chief Negotiator and therefore also the holder of the draft of these laws and he has requested that these laws be relocated to another quarter because the basic law for the adoption of these laws is the Law on Credit Institutions or the popular ZOKI and some guidelines have been adopted in 12 months and that is the reason. Therefore, if we already want to talk about democracy, if it suits us when the Central Bank needs to be independent, also if it suits us when we talk about harmonising legislation with the European Union, I, too, must repeat, because of the great effort made by customs officials, because of the hard work that has been done with them in the last few years, by fellow customs officers from Austria, precisely at harmonisation, have been working towards harmonisation of both the legislation and the practical work of customs. I had to react this way for the reason that a week ago, Croatian customs received compliments for the technical implementation of the law, as well as for the harmonisation of legislation with the European Union. I repeat, the deadline of 10 days is, practically identically reflected on the European Union's economies as well as on Croatia's economies because we clearly said by entering the WTO that we had abolished certain customs rates, and for some we introduced transitional periods. There are only customs duties on goods from the third world, and that is also the case in the European Union. And these 10 days are in line with European Union legislation, as well as that provision on being able to give someone an extended period, but those who work in finance and who work in similar institutions know exactly that this is one very unpopular thing and everyone is running away from giving such deadlines for the reason that someone can always say that it is not justified and it is really given in extreme cases. After all, you can see it in cases of what has happened in recent years and during this government, and also during the coalition government that colleagues have been running away from it. But this is one technical harmonisation of the law with the legislation of the European Union, and I sincerely hope that we will end this chapter as soon as possible, I sincerely hope that colleagues from the Croatian National Bank will end their laws, the Law on the Croatian National Bank is already in Brussels and that the part put into the framework of the Ministry of Finance will be rounded up, and be assured that the laws that the Ministry of Finance should be made in the second quarter will be made. But she might be disturbed by the financial market, and then in a certain way they want to plant the finance ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8146	Thank you very much. So I'm closing the argument. We'll decide when the conditions are met. The final draft law amending and supplementing the Customs Code was also an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. Number 40. This debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This law has been passed by most votes. 76 for, 2 against and 3 abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8149	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. It is the 1979 Convention, or Protocol, to the Convention on Long-range Transboundary Air Contamination, on the 1979 Convention. This Convention was adopted when scientists found that an increase in the concentration of certain pollutants could be felt and affected by human health far from the place of origin. It is a convention related to the transport and transfer of the most common substances such as sulphur. Sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, volatile organic compounds, ammonia and other unfavourable ingredients in the air. From 1988 to 1998, a total of 7 protocols had been adopted, or had limited time of action. In Goetebourg, Sweden in 1999, they adopted a new, 8th in a row, which is precisely this Protocol on the Convention with the Convention on the Prevention of Acidation, Eutrophication and Ground Ozone. The protocol came into force in May 2005, and so far has been ratified by a total of 24 countries. The main issues set out in the Protocol are the reduction of total annual emissions of sulphur, nitrogen oxides, ammonia and volatile organic substances to levels, therefore, for countries with economies in transition this Protocol gives the possibility to apply transitional deadlines within which the prescribed limit values must be met. As a party to the Convention and its Protocols, the European Union has adopted regulations governing, inter alia, the implementation of this Protocol. During the same period and in Croatia, a series of laws and regulations transposing the provisions of this Protocol, namely, the Air Protection Act, the Regulation on the limit values of pollutants, the Regulation on the quality of liquid oil fuels, the Regulation on technical standards on environmental protection against the emissions of volatile organic compounds, the Regulation on the limit values of the emission of pollutants to air from stacior sources and the Regulation on the limit values of the content of volatile organic compounds in certain colours and varnishes, have been adopted. So, we have essentially moved most of these provisions into our legislation and there are still obligations of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, which is under way to develop a code of good agricultural practice which will, among other things, prescribe the conditions and control of ammonia emissions from agricultural activities in accordance with Appendix IX. This protocol. So, no matter how much of these provisions of this Protocol we have already introduced into our legislative system through the European adaptation of European legislation, we must make this ratification. And through these activities, the Ministry of Agriculture will fully meet all our requirements. Here, I'd end it. Once again, I apologize for being a little... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8150	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Environmental Protection, Ms. Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8151	Thank you, Mr. President. Therefore, the Committee on Environmental Protection of the Croatian Parliament discussed at its 2nd session held on 6 May 2008 the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on the control of acidification, eutrophication and terrestrial ozone with the 1979 Convention on Long-range Transboundary Air Detachment with the Final Proposal for a Law submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 24 April 2008, with a proposal to comply with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall adopt the proposed law by an urgent procedure. On the basis of its competence as set out in Article 84a of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Environmental Protection Committee discussed the final draft law in question as a home working body. In its opening statement, Mr Ruzinski pointed out that the confirmation of the Protocol obliges Croatia to act effectively to monitor and reduce emissions of polluting substances caused by anthropogenic activity and which have an impact on human health and the environment due to acidification, eutrophication or terrestrial ozone, and to ensure that, as long as possible, it does not exceed the atmospheric deposits in the long term and degree of access. The proposer also made some of the most significant commitments that the Republic of Croatia has made and which are prescribed by the provisions of the protocol in question, such as the reduction and maintenance of emissions to the identified emission ceilings. After that, the obligation to apply the prescribed emission limit values to stationary, mobile and fuel quality sources and time limits for reaching the limit values of existing stationary sources. As a special commitment, the applicant's representative made the commitment made by the Republic of Croatia and described in Article 6 of the Protocol, which concerns the adoption of national strategies, policies and measures to monitor and reduce emissions, develop and introduce less harmful transport systems that will affect the reduction of total emissions from road transport and waste products containing volatile organic substances. The Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on the control of acidification, eutrophication and terrestrial ozone along with the 1979 Convention on Long-range Transboundary Air Contamination.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8152	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Agent Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8153	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! This is one law that in fact commits us in a certain way more than the very obligations we have towards the European Union. And this is actually an opportunity to look at everything that's happening around us in a certain way, I'd say of an event that a little by little consciously or unconsciously many of us and all of us together like we don't see. So before that, I'm going to quote a few questions or thoughts. Are we aware of the historical ecological drama that eonic slows down, however, happening around us? We are, contrary to everything, still in direct contact with the earth, water, sky, grass, wood, flower, bird. We thank God for learning the original tastes of food, water, smell, and greenery, flowers, fruit. Will our children see the rain fall on the grass, the wind howling in the trees by the house, listen to the crackling of frogs in a stream in the summer afternoon? Will our children watch the night sky full of stars with the Milky Way from end to end? Now millions of children see only the orange sky so-called. Light pollution spreading over cities, a sky without stars that doesn't fill with a sense of immeasurable excitement rather than a feeling of distress. And that's something that becomes a part of them and that's going to stay. Are we aware that we can be guardians of true landscapes and nature and that it is in our power to make it more ecologically powerful, that we can restore it, green it and turn it into a healthy and rich cultural landscape, that new technologies allow us to build a deeply-developed fulfilled existence. That the world is actually small and that responsibility for nature, for the biosphere lies locally in the hands of those who have roots precisely in the original wealth of nature, and thus a special role and special attachment to this wealth. My colleagues and colleagues! Every pollution in the air has its consequences on the living world, plant, animal and certainly human. Therefore, any law aimed at protecting air cleanness as well as the one we have here on the agenda should be supported. The proposal for a law on the validation of the 1979 Protocol on the control of acidification, eutrophication and ground-floor ozone in the 1979 Convention on Long-range Transboundary Air Pollification as such is supported by the HDZ Club. Why are we passing this law if we're not nearly as big air pollutants as any other. Great industrial forces? For several reasons, and to comply with our legislation with European standards. But certainly more because we want to achieve the desired standards ourselves, but only by adopting this and similar laws enables us to vote, votes criticism of those I have already talked about, large polluters at global level. For the same reason, they were responsible far away in 1979, the Economic Union of Europe, seeing the scale and consequences of cross-border air pollution, brought an interstate agreement on the protection of the atmosphere. The Convention on Long-range Transboundary Air Contamination entered into force in 1983, supported by or complemented by eight protocols including the reduction of sulphur, nitrogen oxides, volatile organic compounds, heavy metal sulphur, and the Protocol on Permanent Organic Contaminants and the Protocol on the Prevention of Acidation, Eutrophication and Ground Ozon that we are talking about. That convention, which I have mentioned now, was preceded by a number of things that have led to an event or knowledge since 1960 when, in fact, the scientific evidence of sulphur damage and the countries that produced it in the remote areas of Scandinavia and in 1972, the UN Conference in Stockholm on the Environment and the Reduction of Acidity. Protocol on the prevention of acidification, eutrophication and terrestrial ozone entered into force in 2005, Croatia signed in 1999 now, and, as we have already said, the accession programme of the European Union, we are obliged to ratify it. By 2010, it is also to meet the conditions laid down by the Convention and to achieve this by the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction since 1996 to monitor the quantities of pollutant emissions that lead to these unwanted elements that are actually covered by the law itself. We certainly welcome that sulphur dioxide emissions are down 62% compared to 1990 compared to 1990. It's also almost similar with nitrogen oxide, ammonia, volatile organic compounds that are actually the real culprits for so-called. tropospheric ozone. Finally, Croatia as a developing country in the transition, it is required to meet the conditions of the Protocol relating to all, i.e. the pollutants mentioned, and within 8 or 5 years to existing or otherwise as regulated by Appendix 7 of this Protocol, and the measures relating to the control of ammonia emissions in agriculture Appendix 9. Therefore, Croatia has taken advantage of the possibility to declare itself a developing country and in a certain way to extend certain deadlines within which those systems that produce these pollutants have to be brought into line with this law. And in conclusion, I would return to the very beginning of this quote that I brought out here, indeed, is to preserve our starry sky and the original smell of food and air and air and soil and the entire environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8154	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Željko Vincelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8155	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We know that since June 2004, when Croatia was granted candidate status for membership in the European Union, activities have begun to bring Croatia's legislation into line with the acquis of the European Union. A series of regulations and regulations related to air protection as an important segment of environmental protection has been adopted on the environmental protection plan for this purpose in 2004. The Republic of Croatia signed a Protocol on the control of acidification, eutrophication and ground-floor ozone, along with the 1979 Convention on Long-range, Cross-border Air Contamination in Sweden in November 1999. In accordance with the National Programme of Association of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union for 2008, we are obliged to ratify the Protocol on the control of acidification, eutrophication and terrestrial ozone, which entered into force in Europe in 2005. The objective of this Protocol is to monitor and reduce emissions of sulphur, nitrogen oxide, ammonia and volatile organic compounds that can cause negative effects on human health, animal life, crops or natural ecosystems as a result of cross-border atmospheric transmission. Since 50 years ago, science has concluded that increasing the concentration of certain polluting substances in the air is causing serious environmental damage, that these are not damages that can be closed within the state borders, but are causing damage and very far from the site of polluting substances in the air. It is a classic theme that requires joint action and mutual cooperation between many or better to tell all states. In 1979, a first international agreement was adopted in the area of the protection of the atmosphere, the Convention on Long-range, cross-border air pollution that entered into force in 1983, which calls on countries to take measures aimed at reducing air pollution, as some of the effects of certain pollutants in the air were already clear in human health, as well as in the plant and animal world, by the immune system and metabolism, and some things can also be carcinogenic. During the period until 1991, priority was given to the effects of sulphuric and nitrogen compounds, and the activity of volatile organic substances in the air. States, with several protocols, have committed themselves to taking measures to reduce air pollution by 1999. In 2000, new protocols were adopted, with further extension of the country's air protection obligations. The last in a series of protocols is the protocol on the prevention of acidification, eutrophication and terrestrial ozone from 2005 which is the subject of this debate and confirmation through the law. For each country and each of the pollutants, the protocol provides for a emission limit value to be achieved by 2010. Comparing the emission ceilings for our country and the results of these emissions in 2005, we conclude that the sulphur emissions were recorded in 2005 below the target limit, which is well attributed to fuel combustion with a lower sulphur content, and due to less production and use of suspecting in thermal power plants. The majority of sulphur emissions are the result of fuel burning in thermal plants and energy conversion facilities, about 51%, industrial combustion and production processes taking part in the emissions of around 24% and road traffic with about 12%. The largest individual sources of sulphur emissions are the refinery of Rijeka, the thermal power plant Rijeka, Sisak and Plomin, the refineries of Sisak, the petrochemicals of Kutina, etc. And with the emissions of nitrogen oxides, they shouldn't have too many problems to be below the emission limit, because things about the predominantly cause of these emissions, that's road traffic, about 37% of the participation in the emissions of nitrogen oxides, are improved by the introduction of a catalyst into road vehicles. The largest individual sources of nitrogen oxide emissions are, along with the already mentioned sulphur pollutants, even cementers Split, Nasice, Koromac. The major problem will be to achieve the target value defined by the Ammonium emission Protocol, because the main cause of these emissions is the agriculture sector, and in livestock farming and cereal production. We will have to take effective steps to limit ammonia emissions from the use of rigid, artificial device-based fertilisers in the use and storage of static fertilisers and the adjustment of animal accommodation facilities on pig and peradar farms. I'm closing up. The Croatian People's Party club will support this law because it is the basis of our desire to live healthy in a clean environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8156	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8157	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. First of all, let's say the SDP club will be happy to support this bill. This is a very demanding confirmation of a very demanding protocol, and this is also the case with regard to technical standards and emission quotas. Technical standards can be met by the transfer of the acquis to the European Union, but the question remains whether we will be able to meet the emission quotas. This is the first protocol to observe the common effects of several different harmful substances and call it a multi..., multi effect protocol. It is the same first protocol within the UN Economic Commission for Europe, so-called Europe. The UNC on which the reduction quotas are set on the basis of the objective of protecting the overall eco-system so that the return to these models is determined how much each country must reduce emissions. So we see an extraordinary involvement of science in this protocol. It is therefore extremely important to be active during the preparation of such protocols, i.e. Croatia takes a proactive position. It is known that the revision of this protocol is already in preparation, so the question to which Croatia is involved in the process of review is from both technical and political sides. The participation of Croatian experts in working bodies related to this, but also to other protocols is mildly said in part and the question arises how they will defend Croatian interests during the revision. Although truths are provided for willful means for participation of Croatian experts in preparatory meetings, seminars, etc. But instead of an ad hoc group, it is necessary to form permanent bodies, groups of experts, consortiums or thematic centres to call it what we want, but Croatia has internationally recognised scientists and experts dealing with the topic in question. Let us mention the two most important institutes in the Republic of Croatia, Ruđer Boskovic and the Institute of Medical Research and Medicine. Let us also mention professional associations such as the Croatian Air Protection Association and many private companies that also deal with the topic in question. The Protocol came into force in 2005 and it had already to be ratified long before, because the fact is that already in the Environmental Protection Strategy and the National Action Plan for the Environment 2002 set the objectives set out in this Protocol, so when it entered into force, it is not clear why ratification had not occurred before. The Protocol has no penalties but will become very binding through the adoption of the European Emissions Quotas Directive. As a result, it would be that the Convention on Long-range Transboundary Air Contamination would clarify the issues of emissions recalculation mentioned here in the explanation. We've narrowed it down by reason of the show, but it's a question of whether or not we'll actually be admitted. Namely, there is no solution to the reporting mechanism for who, when and how budgets are implemented, and certainly if the data is not provided, someone else will carry out the calculations for us, and then, of course, there is the question of objectivity and defence of Croatian interests. The Protocol clarifies that parties to the signatories will encourage research, development, monitoring and co-operation in relation to international coordination of methods, calculation and assessment of adverse effects related to matters covered by this Protocol, and then improve the scientific understanding of the long-term fate of emissions and emission reduction technologies and technologies and techniques to improve energy efficiency, energy conservation and use of renewable energy. Some other objectives have been set in this segment, however, their common cross-section is that synergism is needed between the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning and the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports in order to act proactively on these extremely important implementation objectives, the successful implementation of this Protocol. In addition, Article 73 of the Treaty on the Functioning of The Stabilisation and Association Agreement requires that the Republic of Croatia improve its quality infrastructure, including the adoption of 85% of all European standards in order to make Croatia meet all conditions, technical conditions for full membership in the European Union, and that means intensifying the work of all technical committees including those dealing with air protection standards, accepting standards relating to fuel quality, technology and technology related to the topic in question, etc. As far as this segment is concerned, the reduction in sulphur dioxide emissions is the result of combustion with a lower sulphur content. However, the increase in sulphur dioxide emissions occurred only in the road transport sector during that period. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has prescribed quality, hence the prescribed fuel quality set out in Appendix 8 to the Protocol is set out in the Regulation on the quality of liquid oil fuels and, since 1 January 2006, it has been prohibited to place on the domestic market of lead-based gasoline in the Republic of Croatia. The government or technical committees of the Croatian Normal Institute also accepted norms 228 and 590 relating to motor vehicle fuels, unleaded motor gasoline and diesel fuel. It is interesting, however, that the Government itself erodes these internationally adopted norms and norms that have been accepted in the Republic of Croatia by its decisions on the determination of annual quotas of the quantities of liquid oil that may be placed on the domestic market and which do not satisfy the limits and other features of the quality of liquid fuels. Therefore, the government's discretionary decision may place less quality fuel on the market, so in August 2006, it could be placed or decided to place 162 thousand tonnes of lower gasoline on the market and in December 2006, we have an increase to 203 thousand tonnes of diesel, August 378, December 570, vine oil 287, December 355. It's light lush oil. Heavy lush oil 455 tonnes in August, 613 tonnes in December. So we see growth everywhere. And technological progress in car production is known to contribute to the overall reduction of harmful emissions by lower fuel consumption and faster market response to economically and technically better solutions of motor vehicles. The increased use of unleaded gasoline and catalysts is reflected, for example, in improving air quality in the Zagreb area. The ability to quickly reorientate customers and car users is and can be monitored through a rapid increase in the number of vehicles reorganised and gas-powered and through an increase in annual gas consumption for motor vehicles. If the Government really cares about improving the quality of air in the Republic of Croatia, respect for this protocol, which we will adopt here, for example, why not think about more ease for driving vehicles are driven by gas. As far as cross-border pollution transmission is concerned, it is known that the largest part of the sulphur, nitrogen deposits and ground-floor ozone are due to the remote transmission of pollution. In order to reduce the problems of Eurofits and ground-floor ozone in Croatia, it is necessary to force countries that contribute most to such emissions of harmful substances to reduce their emissions. The only way is exactly by accepting protocols like this. It is therefore necessary to organise the active implementation of this Protocol in Croatia, which means cooperation on a number of issues related to emissions reporting, emission projections, mapping of critical burdens on ecosystems, monitoring the state of impact on eco-systems, etc. As regards the means necessary for the implementation of this Protocol, it is said in the assessment that implementation will not require additional funding from the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia because the 2008 State Budget already has the means for drawing up planning documents, implementing rules and the participation of experts in workshops and meetings of the working bodies of the Executive Board, Conventions and Protocols. But here, we better form permanent working groups and plan for the implementation of this Protocol more means of transporting such groups. Whether the resources for the administrative implementation of the protocol itself are provided are not seen in the reasons. It mentions a plan to protect and improve air quality but the question is whether it defines what it will cost to implement this protocol for our economy and industry. At the door of the house already reviewing the protocol so we should record the existing state of the Croatian economy in order to know what new obligations are expecting us soon. So, as I said, the SDP club will support this law, noting that more effective application still requires certain resources and that the Government and other ministries, other than the Ministry of Environmental Protection, could improve their overall air quality and actually improve the compliance of this Protocol in full. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8158	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8159	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In the past few weeks we have been discussing several laws of the Chemical Law, the Law on Air Protection often mentioned the protection of human health and the protection of the environment. It is unnecessary to mention how important both is but certain that environmental protection in Europe is put in priority and is in the first place. In recent years, however, we have been given a significant sense of importance. There is an Environment Agency in Europe, of course with us, but there is a special place for us to have a safe Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund that is making significant efforts and material resources to improve this sensitive area. But in Europe in the last 70 years, scientists and politicians have noticed that the substances polluting that are created in one space can do damage to the environment and atmosphere in another area, so the document came out, this 1979 convention far away, that is, the Convention on Long-range Transboundary air pollution, and it was first dealing with the problem of acid rain and sulphur dioxide, trachea, etc. And with it, in the first time in the 1990s, a significant number of protocols have been created which are the most important for us in this eighth protocol on the prevention of acidification, optimization and ground-floor ozone. As Mr. Secretary of State said, our country signed the protocol in 1999, and so I don't repeat my colleagues in front of it now, it's important that what it brings us well and better in this area, and the aim of this Protocol is to monitor and reduce naturally the emissions of sulphur, nitrogen oxides, ammonia and volatile organic compounds so as not to produce adverse effects on human health. And in that part, I'm sure you're looking forward to this border and in this period until 2010, where it's said to reduce sulphur dioxide to, less than 61%, ammonia less by 19% and these volatile organic compounds by less than 14%, which is good anyway. But I want to mention in this place, since I come from the middle where almost the main production of domestic natural gas is, of course, also a problem, we have been following for years in the area of Podravina County, various monitorings, etc. And they're always these monitors and these findings are mostly very high quality, at a very high level. But it's hard for me to explain to my farmers sometimes that it's all in the best order, when at one time at a certain time, regardless of these unfavourable climate conditions that were last year, in one place, their agricultural culture is particularly oblivious. I deeply believe that this part will improve that area, that it will help safely, and I will have to use my additional communication skills to explain this issue to my farmers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8160	Thank you. Mr. Representative Stjepan Kundić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8161	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. In accordance with the National Programme for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union for 2008, the Republic of Croatia is obliged to ratify the Protocol on the control of acidification, eutrophication and terrestrial ozone. Four are the main objectives of this protocol. First, control of sulphur emissions expressed in tonnes per year. Second, control of nitrogen oxide emissions. Third, control of ammonia emissions. And fourth, control of emissions of volatile organic compounds. All these compounds, as we know very well, can cause adverse effects on human health, natural eco-systems, materials and crops due to acidification, eutrophication or terrestrial ozone as a result of far-reaching cross-border atmospheric transmission. For each country of contaminants, the protocol provides for a emission limit value to be achieved by 2010. As regards the monitoring of emissions of polluted substances, the Ministry of Environment, Spatial Planning and Construction has since 1996 produced an annual emission budget covering the following pollutants. So under a) which causes acidification, eutrophication and photochemical pollution, under b) heavy metals, under c) persistent organic pollutants, and since 2004, a budget for solid particles has been drawn up. Note. The basic year for determining the trend of annual emissions is 1990, and since 2003 emissions of polluting substances have been reported to the new reporting nomenclature with the aim of harmonising the standards of reporting the Convention and the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. Now I'm going to say something about emissions and monitoring the emissions of individual substances. As regards sulphur dioxide emissions according to the results of the sulphur dioxide emissions budget, it was 64.7 kiloton in 2005, down by 62.3% compared to base 1990. So it can be seen that the emissions of sulfur dioxide in 2005 are less than 70 kilotons to the extent of the obligations laid down in this Protocol. The reduction in sulphur dioxide emissions from 1990 to 2005 is the result of combustion with a lower sulphur content. There was an increase in sulphur dioxide emissions during that period in road transport, as there was an increase in motor vehicles on the roads. As regards the emissions of nitrogen oxides, as we know, the emissions of nitrogen oxides have an effect on acidification and utrification, in addition to this, atmospheres with volatile organic compounds and other reactive gases, with the presence of solar radiation, participates in the creation of a ground-floor ozone. The emissions of nitrogen oxides in 20056 amounted to 76.5 kiloton, down by approximately 11.7% compared to 1990. The structure of the show has not changed significantly between 1990 and 2005. The dominant source for this show is still road traffic, which accounts for 26.6% of the emissions, but its impact since 1990 has continued to decline. This may all be considered a result of the gradual introduction of a catalyst into road vehicles. As for ammonia emissions, it has already been mentioned that the largest amount of this emissions comes from agriculture with 89, so almost 90% refers to nitrogen ammonia. The highest livestock production is 67%, and the production of cereals is 22%. The road traffic emissions in recent years show a continuous increase expected to continue in the coming years, and the reason for that increase is the increasing number of vehicles, again with a built-in catalytic converter. Namely, ammonia in the catalytic converters of the vehicle serves as a catalyst for the removal of nitrogen oxides. As for emissions of volatile organic compounds, they are significant from the perspective of creating a tropospheric ozone. The anthropogenic emissions of meth, non-methane volatile organic compounds amounted to 103.8 kiloton in 2005, which is 13% lower than in 1999. The dominant source is the use of solvents, so in the chemical industry 5.1%, then production processes 9.3%, etc. Croatia's commitment to the protocol is to reduce the emissions of non-methane volatile organic compounds by 2010 to 1990 levels. 14%. By confirming the Protocol on the control of acidification, eutrophication and ground-floor ozone with the 1979 Convention on Long-range Transboundary Air Contamination, the Republic of Croatia is joining the States that have become parties and fulfils its obligation under the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia to join the European Union for 2008. The Croatian Democratic Union will support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8162	Thank you. It's Mrs. Carmela Caparin's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8163	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Of course, as an agent, I will support the adoption of this Protocol Confirmation Act, and as I often do say that infectious diseases do not know the limits as well as the atmosphere is transmitted to polluted substances that affect every country and so does our country, and affecting both the environment and the plants and animals and humans. Of course, it is a global problem and that not only must our country adhere to this protocol, but also to other countries. For example, pollution comes from both neighbouring Hungary and neighbouring Italy, so that the winds that blow, for example, bring polluted air from Italy to our country. The problem of pollution is really getting bigger every day. First acid rain, then summer smog caused by sulphuric and nitrogen compounds, the occurrence of increased ground ozone concentrations caused by the action of volatile organic substances in the air, etc. etc. As harmful substances have been increased, further protocols on reducing the sulphur of heavy metals were adopted, protocols on persistent organic polluting substances, regulations and laws in this country, which there are plenty of them, and when we talk about laws, then we always mention that the problem of implementation is in everyday practice. The objective and this Protocol is to monitor and reduce emissions of sulphur, nitrogen oxides, ammonia, volatile organic compounds caused by anthropogenic activity that can also cause adverse effects on human health and human health, on natural eco-systems, on materials, on crops due to acidification, Eurotriification or terrestrial ozone as a consequence of far-reaching cross-border atmospheric transmission and what really gives accuracy to this protocol is the proper limit values that we will also have to adhere to and time limits to achieve these limit values. We often talk so dry about these substances, and when we think of an example of sulfur dioxide that is toxic to both humans and animals cause respiratory system diseases, it passes into the sulphate in the form of fine particles, makes the city's smog deposit on the ground like sulfur dioxide or in the form of sulphate makes acidic rain that affects soil acidification and vegetation, damages materials, buildings and valuable monuments that you often cannot recognise how damaged they are after the action of sulfur dioxide. The acid rain started talking about them only in the '60s, and then it was thought that the problem was high chimneys. Let's remember that then the high chimney factories were built to drop high in the atmosphere of polluted air. But then the problem turned out to be transferred from one place to another or what is said from one yard to another without the real problem being solved. And nitrogen oxide with water is part of the same acid rain that leads to drinking water problems, although 70 percent of Earth's planets today are covered with water, dear friends, only 2% represent the resource of fresh water, and with overexploitation, pollution reduces the supply of drinking water. The oceans and lakes are getting sour, with no fish and no plants. And in our Adriatic today, we say that there are no more fish in some places. If you ask older people then you'll see, they'll say that once in that area, there was a lot more to be hunted than today. One of the reasons is this one. Low pH reduces the reproductive capacity of fish. Soulic acid causes oxygen reduction. As a result, it's the uplifting of algae, the disappearance of seaweed and those beautiful coral reefs. It is also estimated that 60% of all forests are damaged by the effects of rain. They wash nutrients from the soil, while at the same time causing the release of substances that are toxic to plants. Suffering evergreen trees, especially dishes that are more affected than October, and today our most endangered oak. In recent years, ammonia emissions have been growing. The dominant exports of this emissions of agriculture are 89.4% and we have already heard about what problems we will encounter when we have to reduce that emissions, because it comes from the process of producing nitrogen acid, artificial fertilisers, road transport, etc. For example, experts have calculated that a car on a 400-mile-long route spends oxygen that would supply a man with 75 years of life. The human race is really too often turned to itself and technological progress. We come into a phase when we begin to feel the effects of the pollution that we unfortunately caused ourselves. And finally air pollution is really a public-health problem. There is an increase in carcinogenic disease and the saddest thing that always impresses me about not being able to defend themselves, of course, even pregnant women who develop chromosome abnormalities, foetal anomalies, minor birth weight. The carcinogens cross the transplacent barrier, so the cot, enter the blood, and in the fetus induce a malignant response. Despite efforts to reduce the emissions of harmful substances in the air today, 3 million people die as a result of air pollution. All the above really points out that the time of application of the law is in practice, especially the one we are discussing today. I cannot help but mention in my debate at local level where there is often a bad financial situation in order to implement some of these measures and what we see is an insufficient level of awareness of promoting environmental protection, so we need to work more on education, promoting environmental protection through an educational and educational process. In Bjelovar, I can tell you an example of environmental pollution from a factory when people complained that they couldn't sleep from the smell. Then it was called the measurements that measured it on the weekends, and then they decided and the conclusion was that the pollution was gone. The Commission has left, and in two to three weeks and a day this weekend they drop out of that polluted substance factory, polluted gases, and I don't know, because it has a disgusting smell, a disgusting smell so people can't sleep at night. It is up to us to conclude that we are truly conscious and to do something to make this nature around us such that we can live a normal life and live a healthy life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8164	Thank you. We have one replica. Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8165	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Namely, I volunteered for the replica of my colleague just for the very reason that, in the text itself, my colleagues also mentioned pollution by agriculture. In the 1970s, with the intensification of agriculture, pollution with ammonia, or nitrogen compounds grew. Today, it is far, far below that level, and this 33 percent reduction shows that too. In fact, we had until the 1990s a steady increase in the use of fertilisers. For a time, we had the use of fertilisers up to a thousand pounds per hectare, or over 200 kilograms of active substance. Today, we have just one devastating fact that we today spend only 200 kilos of fertiliser per hectare, or about 40 kilograms of active substance, hence some serious nitrogen pollution cannot even be spoken. Normally, livestock farming is a far greater polluter with ammonia, or nitrogen, but we also had one accident in the 1990s, because of the war, the cattle stock almost halved, management today with wastes, with fertilisers is far different than it was until the 1990s. By the 1990s, the main polluters were considered precisely large producers. Small producers were able to manage fertilisers, with organic matter, but today very little is very little, and the large ones are under control today, i.e. there is no opening of new farms that do not have a quality management of fertilisers, i.e. with management in such a way that these ammonia losses are getting smaller and smaller. So I don't think agriculture today has that role to be attributed to as a polluter. On the contrary, I think that polluters today should be more sought out in traffic, etc. Here, this is just more justification, and less reality that agriculture is a polluter today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8166	Thank you. Answer, Mrs. Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8167	Thank you very much. Here, I'm really glad to hear that ammonia pollution is much less than I found, because I really found the information that it's 89.4% from agriculture, but it's encouraging what you said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8168	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragutin Bbodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8169	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. Let me say that in this discussion, here's a colleague who has just said something about agriculture, and my part of this discussion will be about agriculture and ammonia emissions, but we must certainly say that the adoption of this 1979 Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on acidification, eutrophication and ground-floor ozone to the 1979 Convention on Long-range transboundary air pollution also means the acceptance of obligations relating to the reduction of emissions of negative funds here of sulphur, nitrogen oxide, ammonia and volatile organic compounds. Also, setting the prescribed emission limit values to be achieved by 2010, in order to reduce the pollution of the environment of humans and animals, should certainly be implemented. The measures to be taken to prevent these emissions are also measures related to agricultural activities, which are measures to be taken and implemented both in the field of transport. I would try somehow to connect these two things in discussion, and first because more and more is present and it is said that concern about climate change as a novelty in today's times and the calling of agriculture, and especially intensive livestock farming, but also traffic activities. In this respect, what measures have been put in place in this Protocol to monitor the emissions of ammonia from sources in agriculture, according to this, according to the data given here, there are certain justifications because, just as there has already been a saying that agriculture is a dominant source of pollution of almost 90% of ammonia. In this place there is also a particularly intensive livestock farming with 67%. It is this intensive breeding of animals, as in other forms of industrial production, that has brought us certain benefits, but also certain problems that we are talking about. Normally, intensive livestock has negative dimensions. Gerber and his associates in 2002, they defined these problems in several groups. First, huge piles of animal fecal matter and other animal by-products. Second, the pollution of groundwater by decomposing products of fecal substances, secreted chemicals of added food or the use of animal health protection. Third, the pollution of the atmosphere with the ingredients of standing gases, the smell, ammonia, methane, nitrogen oxide. Expensive use of fossil fuels for safe energy supply necessary in all stages of production and damage in the system of biodiversity. Normally, when we read this, or quote what I'm quoting, we see that it must be one of the causes of the pollution of ammonia emissions, which is primarily a sign of fresh fecal pollution. But the second question is, what about road traffic? This is where we say he's only 1.4 ammonia. This and this situation in agriculture were given in 2005. However, it is also said in this material that the current situation is a reduction of 33% compared to 1990, but by 2010, we are still expected to reduce ammonia emissions by 19%. There's been a question of how we've been doing since the '90s. Reduced ammonia by 33% and how, or how, we're going to reduce by this 19%. Logically, the flow was two ways up to this 33%. First, the protection of the environment and the creation of stricter criteria for environmental protection in the construction of the farm are increasingly present, just as the colleague said and certain that in the coming period, you can not do one farm today without one study on environmental protection and which goes through a very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very much, filter to allow as such. However, the second question is, the same has been mentioned in the downturn since the 1990s. I'll just have a few details. Cattle 42%, less pigs 24, sheep, goats 28%, poultry 29%, horses as much as 72%. So it also reduced the number of cattle, so it's probably one of the reasons that this show was smaller. But another thing is what I said to connect to the car. At the same time, the number of personal cars increases almost double. In 1999 there were 835 thousand, and in 2006, we have a million 435 thousand personal cars. What's going on with those cars? Today these cars, it also says in this material, have built-in catalysts in which the NH3 or ammonia is used as a catalyst for the removal of nitrogen oxide emissions, what we see before that polluting air and which directly affects acidification of eutrophication and participates in the creation of ground-floor ozone. It means that in evaluations of how to bring ammonia emissions to the border that determine this protocol, it is good to know that both systems, and livestock farming and an increased number of personal cars are affecting ammonia emissions with unpredictable effects on our life in the broadest sense of the word and. I think we should take care of each other. In livestock production, it is certainly farmed by the regulations that exist. However, in order not to get to the simplest, so here's a colleague of Vincelj's mentioned that we're going to be doing cattle farming, someone's going to say so to reduce the livestock we've already reduced enough. But I'd like to say one more thing. In Slovenia, which I think signed the protocol, we have 22.3 cattle and 26.3 pigs per square kilometre of cattle and 21.3 pigs in Croatia. It means that we have room and room for livestock farming that we are not afraid that we will not meet the protocol requirement if we stick to the prescribed... hygiene criteria in the construction of the farm. At the same time, the traffic of these vehicles both in development and in number are increasingly present in the emissions of harmful substances and ammonia. So at the end of the day, agriculture, livestock and animals in the broadest sense of the word, I think it would be unfair to call the main culprits for climate change or other negative effects of the polluted environment on human health more because it is obvious that in the world in which we live everything is connected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8170	Thank you. The Republic is represented by Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8171	Thank you very much. Namely, my colleague just gave me a creamworth when he finished saying that agriculture should not be considered environmental pollution. Indeed not, because today technologies really offer good waste management in livestock through biogas. Someone here has already mentioned that we should point, I think it was a colleague, Franic, such as transit and gas. So the production of biogas and organic fertilisers is very possible, the pollution of the environment is reduced, we get one very valuable energy, technologies are known and I think that in this direction maybe we should do more together to make all farms connected to biogas systems, meaning organic fertiliser management in such a way that we get waste, we get very valuable biogas, bio gas we channel in terms of fuel either in transit, or in cogeneration and surely that solutions have and agriculture should not be stopped in terms of integration, i.e. larger production already on the contrary to stimulating production but also modern technologies that can guarantee a clean environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8172	Thank you. Mr. Bodakosh's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8173	Well, I'd just like two sentences. I would also like to thank my colleague Chuhnil, who must have explained this part in a very good way and professionally. I just wanted to say in the end, that I still had to end up this way, because those we're talking about as polluters they unfortunately can't say anything here, they're animals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8174	Thank you. And in the name of the promoter, State Secretary Mr. Nikola Ruzhinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8175	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. I must say, coming to this session of the Parliament today, I did not expect this kind of discussion, so first of all, this kind of support that I thank you for, but I did not expect any expert debate to take place that really requires a few words to be said. I would first refer to Mr Franic's presentation which warned of some things he thought were not solved. I've got to defuse him of everything he warned him about, we've got anticipated in our system. So participation in all working groups, in the working bodies of the executive board, reporting, it's all covered by our activities and as he himself said in the end, here, and it says that the funds are provided for it. His fear that we won't be able to calculate what the emissions are, so someone else is going to calculate the same thing because our experts who are already working on these budgets are being prepared are going to work in the future and no one is going to count our emissions. Also, his observation that we should include or turn more money towards the economy and care for the economy, we cannot finance from the state budget what our industry and our energy must do in the context of climate protection, in the context of environmental protection and respect for this protocol, but also from all those regulations and limits that we have already brought and which I have said have been adopted. Otherwise for information on how much it will cost, we have both the budget and this budget under our pre-accession for EU accession and everything we have to fight to get certain transitional periods, I have to tell you that only as far as energy is concerned by the regulation on large deposits, so everything that our thermopower plants have to do will cost about 800 million euros somewhere. A complete transformation to comply with all these regulations and restrictions on overall environmental protection in energy will cost around 2 billion euros somewhere. So it's not small money and we can't do it from the budget. In the end, it is an economy that must do so, it must be adapted to all possible reliefs and all that can be done to it. But also given that our economy does not have that much money, we cannot change all conditions overnight, and therefore we must have a certain transitional period and this Convention and this Protocol provide for certain transitional periods for the transition time for the adjustment of the industry and also for the adjustment of our oil industry to produce that fuel quality that the euro 4 and the euro 5. And we in our law that was here in this House, in our regulations, have left one possibility in our rules that even for those cars that don't need that high-quality fuel can be used gasoline that have slightly greater sulphur content than the latest European standards. But yet you see from all this data and from all that data that the level of sulphur in the air here in Croatia decreases. And also the fear of Mr. Franic whether someone notes it or cannot be seen in all of our new laws that we have passed, all of the regulations that I set out here at the beginning that are listed in the opening part of this law. It is all prescribed that total reporting, all measurements, all concentrations are collected in one place, that is the Environment Protection Agency, which, according to the same reporting directive that we transfer from the European Union, is responsible for sending all data to the European Environment Protection Agency. So, things have been arranged and Dr. Franic's concern is justified but I'm glad I can answer him that what's scheduled, what's done is covered. And now maybe what you should say is two, three words. Dear Mr. Representative, ladies and gentlemen, who spoke today. This law, or protocol of our regulation, is not reversed and does not call agriculture, but finds the situation as it is. So, this is not against agriculture and in agreement with the Ministry of Agriculture it's just like I said in the end, maybe because of my little difficulty in speech you haven't noticed, it's a code of good practice in agriculture. The problem of nitrogen compounds not only of ammonia but of nitrogen compounds in agriculture at all is particularly present, especially where intensive agriculture is, and that means the use of ammonia fertilisers that contain, nitrogen fertilisers. Ammonia is a problem right in cattle and right in the air, and that's a fact. But there are methods, even here I am extremely pleased that in this Parliament even at a professional level, it is said that the treatment of waste water using exactly the situation that anaerobic heat can produce biogas and that biogas can be used in energy as a renewable source of energy and in terms of reducing climate pollution and climate protection, global warming, all of this will be done with us and done, and programs are done and cattle farms can no longer be done without being system-based wastewater treatment systems. So it's a solution. The only thing everyone knows is that it's done. The government's decision also forced INA to make, reduce sulphur emissions into the air. These days, tomorrow or these days will be the first annual report this House has set out on the quality of air in Sisak where it is seen that a reduced level of sulphur is important. It will also be on the Committee on Environmental Protection. So there are procedures to reduce emissions into the air and traffic emissions. Clearly, we are all aware that traffic is growing but the quality of fuel is improving and the quality of the car is improving. But all this requires a certain period and a certain large investment but in no case is this law, the policy of the Ministry of Environmental Protection or the policies of this Government not directed against agriculture but rather at intensifying agriculture, in intensifying livestock production. I can't talk about it, but I can talk about what it is about environmental protection in that whole programme. Therefore, we are now both through SAPARD and through a series, through pre-accession funds, through the environmental protection system has gone through a series of environmental impact studies that exactly this good practice in agriculture fully respects. And I believe that these laws of ours, our efforts will come to the conclusion that this particular agriculture in relation to the environment is becoming more favourable and more favourable and that it is developing more and more. And that's our intensity. Here, once again, I thank you for a very fruitful discussion and it is particularly interesting that in this House you can also hear professional debates that actually explain what appears as a problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-07-0.u8176	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we would end today with this point. Tomorrow we will continue at 9.30 p.m. on the agenda Annual report on the preparedness of the defence system, implementation of the human resources policy, etc. And according to the possibilities for new agenda points and some of them have no conditions, so we'll see how it goes. But mostly, we start with this point. Thank you very much. The final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on the control of acidification, eutrophication and terrestrial ozone with the 1979 Convention on Long-range Transboundary Air Contamination was also an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. Number 53. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This law was passed by most votes, 77 votes for, 3 abstentions. Thank you.
