ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13016	Here's the esteemed Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Support in Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry, with the Final Proposal of the Law. The constitutional basis of this law is contained in the provision of Article 2(4). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The Law on State support in agriculture and forestry was passed in July 2002, and with certain amendments and additions it applies as part of the latest preparations for EU membership. The Ministry has initiated activities for a comprehensive amendment of the laws on which agricultural policy is under way, which should prepare agriculture for the process and for a more painless transition to the legislation of the common agricultural policy in the next period. However, by the government programme, the Republic of Croatia for its term of office from 2008 to 2011 and other new regulations, we were forced to go to an urgent amendment to this law, only in those parts which, in terms of which we are concerned by the urgent adoption and reference to the Assembly. This law regulates the following issues, which is the Law on the Construction and Circular of the Central Authorities of the State Administration, the name of the section of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy has therefore been left out of the name and content of the law of forestry. It follows from the European Union inspection practice and practice that the too strict provision referred to in Article 3 with which the beneficiary of State support may submit a new claim for the acquisition of rights only after two years, counting on the date of finalisation of the solution. We therefore propose to reduce this deadline to one year. Under the law on the power of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues by regulations, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted the Regulation amending the Law on State Support, which proposed a period of one year, extended to all family economies that, when applying for incentives, they must be entered in the register of income taxpayers pursuant to that law. We have included these amendments in the Law with an extension of another year, i.e. from 1 January 2010. On 1 January 2008, the Law on Seeds and Fruit Material was amended, and this law also brought into line and aligned the definitions with the types and certification system as regulated by the Seed and Fruit Material Act and the recognition of varieties on agricultural plants. Furthermore, on the basis of the data available, we corrected the body weight of the white-meat calves from 100 kg to 80. In the second group of income support models, we have changed the basis for payment of support from the current 5000 kuna per economy that can amount to a new proposal of 10000 kuna. Such a provision is proposed to avoid the practice of cleaving non-commercial agricultural holdings, and in the Government's programme we envisioned the introduction of state support for the elderly without any example, so the intention of this law is to find a solution for non-commercial agricultural economies which are only of the most socially vulnerable categories of the population. In the capital investment model provisions relating to the introduction of additional investment support opportunities, the current practice was to co-finance investments granted by the financial institution. With these changes and additions we propose we introduce the possibility of co-financing of investments made by our own resources, of course with enhanced control and with specific criteria. The Commission for Capital Investment has so far proposed a decision on the approval of countless funds in view of the procedures and criteria which have been developed and one transparent system. We propose, in accordance with the practice of the European Union and the implementation and the SAPARD procedures, we propose to the Commission to monitor the models that will be responsible for monitoring the implementation and proposing to the Minister a deterioration of this model of capital investment implementation. Appendix 3 is also amended, which provides for reduced minimum incentives for the government's 2008-2011 mandate to reduce the minimally encouraged areas of plant production, the throats in livestock production, and, accordingly, is proposed to amend the law as the programme provides for the start of these measures for 2008. Accordingly, the changes in Appendix 3 and Appendix 2 suggest an increase in the personal payment for suckler cows from 1000 kuna to 1500 kuna, and this correction also refers to the reason for this correction that no minimum milk delivered to the market should be reduced. By passing this law, we extend the right to state support in agriculture in line with the Government's programme on users with less resources than ever before. However, this will not affect the increase in the overall budget to finance support in agriculture due to the built-in legislative mechanism of the maximum amount encouraged in which redistribution in the budget is possible depending on the requirements submitted. To implement this law, we do not need additional funding, but they are secured in the 2008 budget. Here, ladies and gentlemen, so please support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13017	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. The debate on the final draft law was carried out by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development and the Committee on Development and Reconstruction. This is the committee's authorised representatives, Mrs. Zgrebec. Dear MPs, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13018	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 6th session of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Support in Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry with the final proposal of the Law, in the capacity of the home working body. Following the preliminary explanation of the applicant's representative, the Committee supported the proposal to adopt that law by an urgent procedure. A representative of the Food Industry and Agriculture Association and the Croatian Employers' Association and representatives of the Croatian Association of Cooperatives participated in the debate. The debate highlights the importance of preparing to comply with the principles of the European Union's common agricultural policy. Given the unique payment by farm, a transitional period should be allowed at the same time. The need to preserve and advance rural areas and rural values is further highlighted by enabling the survival of small-scale agricultural holdings. The opinion is also expressed that the common agricultural policy needs to be reconsidered. In fact, income support should be one of the social policy measures, while incentives and economic category and the objective of encouraging greater production, self-sufficiency insurance and exports, fostering the desired production structure as well as greater competitiveness and cheaper products. In order to achieve success in terms of increasing production, it is necessary to fulfil the legal obligation to regionalise agricultural production in order to encourage the production of agricultural products that have production competitiveness in a particular region. At the same time, there must be a way of encouraging cooperatives in terms of a recently passed law on the introduction of a European cooperative. Given the complexity of the resolution of support in agriculture, fisheries and rural development, it is pleased that, according to the committee members, the new law will be substantially amended and contentable in front of MPs in November this year. After the debate was held, the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Support in Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry in the following amendment, in Article 5, in Article 14, paragraph 7, the word "white tail" is added to the word "skrumpir" in point 7. An explanation, we suggest that an incentive be introduced for potatoes for industrial processing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13019	Thank you very much. Mrs. Chuhnil, so no. That's what we're done with part of the discussion of the board's representatives. We're going to the clubs. In front of the SDP club, distinguished representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13020	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In the context of the amendments and the addition of this law, it is said that they are based on the Government's programme, but at the same time the new law is being substantially amended and based on the acquis of the European Union, which brings a little confusion because you are asking what changes to the existing law if new and important different content are to be presented here by the end of the year. We also have before us the opening of Chapter 11 concerning agriculture, and the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development has been speedily preparing negotiating positions. Since 2005, the European Union has not been conditional on the production of a specific agricultural product, but is being paid by the economy. The control of the use of such paid-up support is to assess whether the farmer maintains his holding in good production condition and whether the rules on environmental protection, animal welfare and other regulations are respected. Through the reform of the common agricultural policy, the European Union is also changing the support system. A new law on state aid in agriculture has been announced, which will be in line with European Union legislation, must accept what the current system of support will also mean. Today, in Croatia, we pay about 200 different support related to agriculture, fisheries and rural development, and tomorrow, or in due time, it should be one support to be paid, unique to one agricultural economy. Croatia has significant natural advantages for agricultural production from preserved land to water potential, but it uses them poorly. The flaws that can be or the flaw which is the biggest problem in our agricultural production is small property and fragmented parcels. Our production and consumer balances are not harmonised, we do not have self-sufficiency in a large number of products, so we are an importer instead of an exporter of food. According to the State Statistics Office in 2007, we imported 8 billion kuna worth of food and drinks and exported 4 billion 876 million kuna. There is nothing better to stand for when it comes to primary agricultural products because in 2007, imports amounted to 3 billion 146 million and exports to 198 million kuna. In doing so, we import almost everything we can to produce ourselves in sufficient quantities. Live animals, meat and processing, milk and processing, eggs, fruits, vegetables, cereals and cereals. Although the state budget increases the annual allocations for agriculture on all grounds and for support for both investment and rural development, progress is slow and modest. At this stage, as regards production support, the social component should be separated from the production component. Production support must aim at increasing production, changing production structure, and with investment support and increasing competitiveness. The system we have, and now we're cutting surfaces, can't actually provide these goals and is more focused on social assistance. In the SDP, we advocate the creation of a special system of social measures for nursing households in the country through the insurance of so-called. social pensions that would, in one part, be linked to property on agricultural land. Or in other words, the minimum social pension would increase depending on the household property. The promotion of the association of farmers through financial and professional assistance should be ensured by small-owned owners so that they can rationalise their production and use state support which is lagging behind today. Little or almost nothing has been done on regionalisation in accordance with Article 21. The agricultural law. In paragraph 2 of that Article, the Government should lay down criteria for the establishment of agricultural regions with a statement of agricultural products having production competitiveness in a given region. It's been seven years since the law on agriculture was passed, and it's still not fully applied. And a few words in which the amendments and additions to the law we are discussing are heading. The Government Regulation extending the time limit for entering the agricultural holding into the income tax system to 1. 1. 2010 This amendment has been delayed several times, and when we discussed that regulation, we had the observation that it was not good for them to be delayed, that they should be delayed, because this is not actually the case for those who should enter the income tax system, but rather for certain measures to help them to do so as soon as possible because the registration into the Register of taxpayers will become a condition for enrolment in the Register of Farmers who use incentives. Certain provisions of the law are harmonised with the new Seed Act, fruit material and the recognition of the variety of agricultural plants, so one harmonisation of two laws. It reduces the body weight of fatted bodies for the production of white meat, which can be stimulated from 100 to 80 kilograms, which will actually have a marginal impact, because there are few such producers. Income support is increasing from 5 to a maximum of 10 thousand kuna per year, as a member of the economy that does not make revenues can also receive income support. We support this change, but at the same time we point out that it is necessary, as I said before, to introduce other social measures that will be in the function of a better life of such households in the country, and not that they must through some production component ensure themselves. The possibility is introduced that capital investment can benefit from support even when it is invested in its own, not just credit assets that we estimate good. The period of penalties shall be reduced for the achievement of support if it is found to have been illegally acquired from two to one year. We think that this may be small and questionable and that there should also be different penalties for those who illegally use incentives. It is increasing the amount for the basic payment per cow unit from a thousand to 500 kuna, but here we believe that there is a bigger problem in the buy-in system and the price of milk that should also be addressed, of course, beyond this law. The most important, but perhaps also for us the most questionable change regarding the reduction of minimally stimulating surfaces of war cultures from 3 to 1 hectare. For example. The production of wheat or corn on only one hectare does not have the character of commodity production for the market, so it is doubtful why it encourages production on such a small area and requires significant administrative jobs and then financial expenditure. It is also a question of time for the registration of such users of support in the register, given the announced new Support Act. Since such small changes still bring certain financial benefits to farmers in the current conditions of high price growth of all reproductive materials used in agriculture and energy, as well as other services, we will support the adoption of this law, but we also propose to the Government to report to the Croatian Parliament on the busy negotiating positions relating to agriculture, because this will be in fact the largest part of the work on harmonisation and legislation, but also in negotiations that will concern a large part of the population in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13021	Thank you very much. We have one application for correction of an incorrect allegation. Dear Representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13022	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. The colleague Zgrebec pointed out that this new Agricultural Aid Act is aimed at social assistance, which is completely incorrect when the objectives of agricultural policy are set out in the Agriculture Act, which was adopted in 2001, and their aim is to promote the efficiency of production and markets in agriculture in order to strengthen competitiveness on the domestic and world market, to preserve natural resources by promoting from the country of agriculture and to preserve and advance rural areas and rural values. Given that this law stems from the basic law on agriculture, I am correcting the incorrect claim that has been made.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13023	Thank you very much. Next is a debate in front of the Croatian Peasant Party club, distinguished representative Zdravko Kelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13024	Honorable Vice President, Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the State Support Act is a subject which HSS spoke a lot about in the campaign itself before these elections and announced certain changes if it is in a position to achieve them. In agreement with the coalition partners, we have managed to find a common language and have come to this proposal that we have today and we believe that it is good. And then, and today, there are many who disagree with this proposal and feel that this amendment is not good. We consider the HSS different and believe that this law is primarily just. Why fair? For the simple reason we had a situation so far that a certain part of the economy or entities had the right to support, and a certain one had no right to support it. If we look in the register, then we can see that about 170 thousand family economies are listed. If we look at how much support they have received, we can see that just over 100,000 families have achieved that support. Of course, this shows that a large number of family economies did not receive support, and they were certainly not in an equal position as those who had. We ask the question why and why and whether to continue with such funding. We said no, we want everyone to get a chance on the market, that everyone can compete evenly, and whoever is better, make progress, and whoever isn't, of course, he'll be looking for another chance. I only have one example of how the family economy worked. If someone had in this 18-hero, he had no right to support because he had to have 20 to achieve it. If someone had 50 pigs in their load, he had no right to support it because he had to have 75 pieces to achieve that support. If someone had 500, 5 grand, 10 grand, 20 grand, he had the right to achieve that support, not on those 5 or 10 grand, but on everything. Therefore, we will surely agree that it is not fair and just that someone has a right, and someone has no right. Personally, I don't mind that someone in their tov has as many passengers as possible, and yet we all advocate that those who are great are and bearers of some development, but we can't go in the direction of underestimating those producers who are smaller and those producers who certainly have to find a place on this market and under this sun. If we look at Croatia is still a large importer of food. Food today is what they say, a special trend or hit in the world. We all know that food is getting smaller, we all know that food is increasingly needed, we all know that investments in food production are growing. Of course, that we must go in this direction, that we too must stand up for such things, which is why we must go in the direction and encourage food production, in order that the majority of our people, or the majority of our people who live in the country today, can achieve this right and that as many people as possible produce the food that is absolutely necessary today. From these figures that we can see from imports, it is said that Croatia imports almost all of them. We must therefore make additional efforts through the Ministry of Agriculture, and I believe that these changes will also certainly contribute to greater production, and that Croatia will soon be the one that will not have to import this much food, but certainly be in a position to import very little food, because those potentials that we have in Croatia today, quite certainly, that we can produce food, not just for citizens living in it, but for sure food and much more. On the other hand, when we look at our villages. We used to say that our villages were empty. People are leaving the village, looking for better affirmation, better life and trends that are happening today, so that Croatia or the citizens of Croatia could live in several major cities, and our villages would become deserts without people. There wouldn't be those who would live in them, because they wouldn't find their own interest. I will give an example from the county from which I come Vukovar-Srijem, one Strošinci, Racinovci, villages on the border with Serbia, where people live almost exclusively from agriculture. There's not enough land for everyone to have 100, 200 or more hectares and to do some major production. And then the question is, what do you do with these people? What do you do with that space that's at the border? Do you go in a direction to drive them to cities or go in a direction to motivate them to stay in those areas? It is not a rich country that will leave its premises, but, in fact, there are well-known examples of countries in Europe that stimulate and encourage even greater measures, but the rest of the production in those areas that are very important for the Croatian state. This, therefore, is certainly a message to us that we must begin to think in a different way and that we must try to solve the problem ahead. Over 2,000 villages today we have less than 300 inhabitants. From that we can only see what's waiting for us in 5, 10 not to say 50 years. As for the capital investment model, so far we have had a situation where only those who have raised loans, only those who have used these loans and bought whether or not the machinery or something else, today a new measure is being introduced to encourage and to support those who have their own resources and those who can buy from their own resources what they want to buy. And it's a perfectly safe and good thing and a lot of people have called and called and asked why we have to pay interest on some loans, if we have our own money and out of our own money we can buy something and we can avoid those interest rates. This is a very safe and better thing today that you can in some way avoid paying certain interest and that you can help those people who are absolutely hard to live today and we can say, there are survivals on the edge. Through these measures, I believe that out of these nearly 70,000 economies that were not in the support system, we will keep the good part to stay in their economies. I believe that this will help both ourselves and the state in the production of food itself. And what I must also add is especially because of these small producers, which is that the extension is until 1 January 2010, when a deadline is set for entering the VAT system to make it easier to say. It certainly opens up a single space. Realising that Croatia is entering the European Union, aware that we will have to comply with certain provisions, but aware of the situation that we cannot escape from our reality. Is this our reality and we can't forget it, we can't hide it, we have to accept it as our reality and we have to go that way. And let's say, over the past year and a half, let's also try to help these family economies to find most of them tomorrow in the VAT system, crafts and that they can be an integral part of the production itself in the Republic of Croatia. The HSS will surely support this proposal to amend and supplement the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13025	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Branko Kutija has been announced to submit an exhibition in the Croatian Democratic Community's Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13026	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The adoption of this law extends the rights to state support in agriculture in accordance with the Government's programme on users with less potential than ever before. However, this will not affect the increase in the total budget needed to finance support in agriculture due to the built-in legislative mechanism of the maximum amount encouraged which may be redistributed in the budget depending on the requirements submitted. The changes proposed in this law are as follows. So it's already reduced, before the two-year sentence per year when the beneficiary of state support can apply for a new claim for the right of state support, counting on the date of finalisation of the solution which the agricultural inspectors order the beneficiary to recover the funds. The inspection practice, but the practice of the European Union, shows that the overly strict provision referred to in Article 3 with which the beneficiary of State aid may submit a new request for the right to receive State support only after two years, counting on the date of finalisation of the solution which the agricultural inspectors order the beneficiary to recover the funds. It is therefore proposed to reduce that deadline to one year. Moreover, the transitional provision lays down the possibility of submitting a new application for the right to State support for one year from the date of finalisation of the inspector’s decision ordering the user to recover the funds and to users who have lost that possibility under the applicable law for two years. A period of one year has been extended for all family economies to demonstrate when applying for incentives that they are entered in the register of income taxpayers at the Tax Administration according to income tax regulations. Under the Law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section. At its meeting on 18 December 2007, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted the Regulation amending the Law on State Support in Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry extending the period for one year to all family economies that, when applying for incentives, they must prove that they are entered in the register of taxpayers' income tax in the tax administration according to the rules on income tax. In accordance with the above-mentioned Act on Government's power to regulate certain issues in the Croatian Parliament's section, and as most of the family holdings are still outside the income tax system, a similar provision has been incorporated into this law with an additional extension from one more year to 1 January 2010. Furthermore, this Law is in line with the Law on Seed, Fruit material and the recognition of agricultural plant varieties. On 1 January 2008, the Law on Seeds, fruit material and the recognition of agricultural plant variety entered into force and with it the sublegal regulations governing and placing on the market of certain species of agricultural plant. As changes to the system of certification of agricultural seed and agricultural fruit material have taken place in the seed, fruit material and the recognition of agricultural plant variety, it was necessary to make amendments to this Act. In view of this fact, the amendments to Articles 14, 16, 21, 22 and 25 have been proposed in order to comply with the definitions, species and certification system of the Seed Act. In the second group of income support models, the basis for disbursement of support is changed and, instead of the current right of 5 thousand kuna per economy, income support is granted to the applicant or per member, with the maximum amount of support per economy being up to a maximum of 10 thousand kuna. Such a provision is proposed to avoid practice on the ground where non-commercial economies have been split in order to achieve the greatest support. This group of income support models also introduces a new group of beneficiaries of income support rights. They are members of a holding of more than 65 years of age who do not generate income on any basis. In fact, the government programme provides for the introduction of state support for older people without any example, so the intention of this law is to find a solution for such non-commercial agricultural economies that are one of the most socially endangered categories of the population. The provisions on the capital investment model relate primarily to the introduction of additional investment support opportunities that would be realised and own resources other than the model so far which the Ministry participated in co-financing the investment for which the financial institution granted the loan. Further changes are being made by harmonising the scope of support in a model with the current responsibility of the ministry. This changes the name and authority of the Capital Investments Commission, which has so far been proposed by the Minister of Decision on the granting of grants. In view of the fact that the procedure as well as the criteria for the decision to grant grants have been well developed and the transparent way of granting grants has proved to be excessive. Instead, in accordance with the practice of the European Union applied in the SAPARD procedures, a Commission is proposed to monitor the capital investment model which will be responsible for monitoring the implementation and proposing the Minister... on the implementation of the model and the objection committee which will propose to the Minister a decision on the adoption or rejection of the objection. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Finally, the Appendix Three is amended to prescribe a reduction in the minimum incentive quantity. Namely, the government's programme for the 2008/2011 term of office. It provides for a reduction of minimum incentive areas in plant production and throat in livestock production and, accordingly, is proposed to amend the law. Given that the programme provides for a start for the implementation of this measure in 2008, and that the procedure for the adoption of an incentive application is ongoing. It will be necessary in an appropriate manner to extend the deadline within which users who, in accordance with the applicable provisions of the law, would be excluded from the incentive system by production surface and by throat could submit a request for incentives for the current year 2008. In Appendix 2, the basic payment per unit for suckler cows from 1000 to 1500 kuna should not be reduced to a minimum incentivising quantity of milk delivered for the market. Finally, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13027	Thank you very much for your esteemed representative. Next on behalf of the Club,...... He gave up. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] On behalf of the Club of National Minorities, the esteemed representative Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13028	Dear Mr. Vice President, the esteemed secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The club of national minorities really cannot be different than to express the satisfaction that agriculture is back on the agenda in this house but at the same time we are sad that we have confused the order and are changing the law that is certainly important, if not the most important but which makes the last link in the chain how to reach the goal. And what's the point, I have to say that we still don't know in agriculture. We are re-editing the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and I will repeat what I said several times thinking our ministry will wake up without discussing the green report that the Government of the Republic of Croatia's obligation is to submit to the Parliament by 30 June each year. It's been the sixth of June since the law was passed. Unfortunately, we didn't have a green report in this home. We don't even have a national programme for agriculture and rural areas. Without discussing the effects the current incentives had on the production of certain cultures or products to increase its competitiveness. And what happens to us in the end with the rural space that is affected by the depopulation. How land policy is implemented without which there will certainly be no European competitive production certainly not on holdings with an average below three hectares. At a time when there is no day that agriculture is not a top topic, whether as a food producer or as a source of energy that is becoming more expensive every day, we wonder where our agriculture is going and what is really our goal in agriculture. Our production in many products has not reached 1990 levels. We only have 5 products and I'm wondering today if five products, since the wheat is under one large questionnaire because we're saying that they've been sown most likely 140 thousand hectares if we know that the average of our production is just over 4 tonnes, or 4.2 at best. I wonder if Croatia will have enough wheat with this production. Similarly, we could combine other productions whether it was corn where we produced and 7 tons, where we were with averages above 6 tons of our production is now about 5 and a half tons per hectare with that I have to say that we are very hard to get real data because by listing our statistics, the latest data are 2004. How to increase production, its productivity and thus the competitiveness of our agricultural production certainly makes this third collection and artificial fertilisers very difficult. But I will try to return again to the 1990s, which the European Union welcomed with agricultural surpluses and unbalanced offer and demand for agricultural products, and we with war and transition where both war and transition had devastating consequences for agriculture. Therefore, the introduction of an incentive in 2002, in line with the European Union, where the main element of the new subsidisation policy is farmer and its income, regardless of their production, could not produce good results in Croatia, which I said at the time, which is why I halved the production. Europe, which has achieved high productivity and competitiveness including high production with high technical and technological levels, could afford to invest in rural development, environmental protection, food safety, animal welfare. The shift of the market to the European Union began after a self-supply policy for key food products started to produce surpluses continuously. And what surpluses did we have then, or what surpluses do we have today, and do we have at all? To date, Croatia's agriculture really has no accurate data as to how much we produce or what agricultural areas we have at our disposal? If we start looking for data, we've got data that's in the drive of 940 thousand acres. We have data that the hurricanes and gardens are under the surface of a million thousand acres. What about the other surfaces? What are really our agricultural areas in production? Following a common agricultural policy of the European Union, which really represents rules and mechanisms that regulate the production, sale and placement of agricultural products with particular emphasis on the development of rural areas, I must reiterate the objectives set by the European Union in the 1970s. Why the '70s? Because right then in the European Union agriculture, 20% of the population worked. It is so unfortunately working in Croatia today, or related to agriculture. Therefore, the objectives set at the time: raising agricultural productivity, ensuring a standard of living for the agricultural population, stabilising the market, security of market supply and providing agricultural products for consumers at reasonable prices is exactly what Croatian agriculture unfortunately calls out for today. I must therefore say that the European Union has managed to achieve both a single market and a set of common prices and to help protect the internal market from disturbances caused by uncontrollable imports of agricultural products and low prices. As a result, it increased production, raised productivity, and indeed everything that was related to agriculture. In 2000, the Agenda adopted by the European Union could also include new approaches to incentives for agriculture by farmer and income, but we should not have done so. If nothing else, at least we had to keep an incentive hectare through the offering that one of Austria kept until last year. We immediately began to encourage a hectare without wondering what kind of production we had. It's not possible to build quality if you don't have a quantity. I therefore think that it is not too late and that we should really take advantage of these three years, as we are about to enter the European Union to try to save what is to be saved, that we do indeed work, but this time on synthesis and quantity and quality, because it is the only way to ensure and produce and self-sufficiency only in certain products, and only then will we be able to provide income to the farmer and build on what the European Union today can allow to build on some measures that can actually produce results. I would, however, like to say something concrete about these amendments proposed by the Encouragement Act. Is it too strict a provision on two years of intolerance of a new request? Certainly, in the European Union, yes. Because there's no one else's idea of cheating on the state that way. While we're dealing with millions of frauds, I'm really sorry that the bill promoter didn't specify the number of offenders or at least the number of controls performed because I wonder if we have enough inspectors and what's going on in our fields? And then it would certainly be easier to raise your hand whether two years, three years or this one year that is now proposed. Incentives in agriculture have been tripled for the last six years. In 2008 the aid in agriculture and fisheries amounted to 3 billion 156 million where nearly two and a half billion were lost to fostering agricultural production and intervention on the market. And I'm really going back to the beginning. What are the results of this production? Are there real statistics and where are we today with production compared to 1990? I take it as a turning point, I say war, transition, and so on they did theirs. The suspension of enrolment in the register of taxpayers of income tax at the tax administration by 1 January 2000 may only be a bear service. Since most of the family economies are still outside the income tax system, and we know that this will have to be by entering the European Union, I say in 2010, when they will have to have stalking accounting. Perhaps a measure should have been applied with some kind of relief to say measures and begin to attract our agriculture and to this enrolment. Why, why did I ask this as a questionnaire? For one reason another. Analyzing a new land law that is likely to come to this Parliament by next week, there is an advantage in buying, renting it to an independent family economy, which is exactly what is in the tax system or income tax. And here we just push them so they don't have to, and there's going to be a condition. Maybe it's a little out of line and unserious. We are changing the basis for payment of support in another group of income support models is good for users. Unfortunately, I have to say that again at the expense of agriculture, we are solving the social situation instead of finally resolving the national pension as a permanent measure for such users, which would also begin to solve the issue of these families' land in order to round up the family holding because without guaranteeing a lasting measure to an old family economy that there will be no change, that no policy will come tomorrow that will change that support. Surely none of the old families will sell their land, for it is a guarantee of his age. Therefore, even here, we would have to make some shifts if we wanted to even talk about rounding up agricultural family economies precisely at the expense of small old-age family economies where it is, where the biggest resources are if we know that more than 90% of the land is privately owned. What I particularly welcome in the capital investment model is the possibility of achieving support for investments that will be realised by own resources instead of the existing model that favored the loan, and thus went hand in hand to the banks, rather than to the farmer. Knowing the mentality of our agricultural producers whether they move into the investment when they have some savings. As early as 2002, I was pushing for this model to apply. Unfortunately, the ministry at the time refused. Adopted... The model violated both the savings and encouraged the credit line. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I have to say that without any radical changes to the Agriculture Act, without its root change in application there will be no shift in agriculture, and I really think it's a delay in paying the tax later. I must say, we at the National Minorities Club will support these cosmetic measures. They will not help agricultural production, but it will help to survive nursing and small households by certainly asking for the application of the Agriculture Act, or if it cannot or won't apply, let's change it. I think there's a possibility, too, but to finally start thinking about where our agriculture is going. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13029	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Marijana Petir, a distinguished representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13030	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. counterpart Cuhnil pointed out that we do not know what our goal is in agriculture. We certainly know what our goal is in agriculture, which is the survival of 100,000 family economies that are now in the register and are being supported. It is the preservation of rural space and Croatian villages and the competitiveness of agricultural production on the domestic and foreign markets. When we call on Europe, it would be good to be realistic in this call, because 30% of the European Union's budget goes to agriculture. In Croatia this is significantly, significantly less, so if we really want to implement all the measures and get to these goals that I pointed out, then I also appeal to all representatives in the Croatian Parliament that 30% of the Croatian budget will also be allocated in future for agricultural production and I believe that this will also be supported by my colleague Cuhnil.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13031	Thank you very much. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13032	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. This is certainly a fairer law than the existing one, although I absolutely agree with Mrs. Cuhnil who says maybe this law will not help agriculture much, but if it also enables the survival of peasants in one period and that is something and therefore one such approach should be supported. Whether this law will lead to an increase in food production in Croatia will we see, we will only see. Food is getting more expensive, food is getting more expensive in the world, in our environment. Food's getting more expensive in our stores. Is this now an opportunity to rise with the supposed food Croatian village, to raise one Slavonia, to start Slavonia. Whether Slavonic food will somehow become new oil. Whether Slavonia will use high food prices as some have exploited its own high oil prices. Clearly, I don't put a sign of equality between food and oil. I don't think oil and food are the same, but it's certainly one thing that the price of food in the country and in our environment will grow. Is that how you can help one Slavonia and one Podravina and Srijem and I don't know Međimura etc.? where these big agricultural complexes are. What we know is that citizens will certainly pay for food more expensively. The question now arises as well for citizens in our cities of one Pula, via Rijeka, Split, Zagreb, etc. Help. In my court, only differentiated VAT rates. The VAT on food must be corrected. How? Clear down. It's like that everywhere in the world. There are always different VAT rates in the world except in the Republic of Croatia. The price of food will rise. The village may have a new chance. If the village will use it we will see clearly. Will we, in such circumstances, prevent or reduce the import of food, for we cannot in principle prevent it? And we'll see about that. But the fact is that Croatia does not have a lot of time and with incentives should somehow be helped by Croatian agriculture. So let's kind of do this from this article in 51 that talks about capital investments and non-refundable livestock, for example, pig farming. The most important detail in the new capital investment cycle is certainly the government's decision to raise up to a maximum of half a million kuna to a maximum of up to three and a half million kuna. This, they expect now in the government and in the resolution ministry, should certainly motivate farmers to respond significantly more than in recent years. Over the past 4 years, the credit maximum per farm in the economy has been 3 and a half million kuna, and in pig farming it is 9.5 million kuna. New investment is now being introduced with a single limit of 11 million kuna. The payment deadline has been moved from 10 to 15 years with a two-year start and these are certainly important funds that can help part of the Croatian village. In 2008 alone, 2010 these incentives will be set aside from the state budget of 2.2 almost 2.3 billion kuna. This law clearly touches fisheries. I welcome the view that fishermen need urgent help as we've had the chance to hear it. There's something going on in that direction, that the difference between five kunas of blue oil will be corrected more by the competent ministry or by the government, anyway. I clearly want to believe that here they will not forget about boaters who would be happy to change with fishermen and who themselves are asking for such a principle to be applied to them. But now, clear boaters unlike fishermen are not subject to this law. But what is the biggest problem of today's farmer, and now I'm going to speak from this Istrian position, means especially in Istria. It's, uh, not as much support in agriculture as agricultural land. Agricultural land, as some here know, could almost all of Croatia shop, I will not say... why and those low prices were probably many unattainable, but this land since 2000 could not be bought here by Istrians who had to allocate 20, 50 and 100 times more for a square meter of agricultural land than in one Slavonia, Podravina, Lika, Zagorje, Međimurje, etc., etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is simply not fair because the country can only bear less than in Slavonia, the country can produce the same, no more wine, potatoes, any other product that is sold again on the market at the same price as in other parts of the Republic of Croatia. I even have this approach where our people in Istria County have not been given the opportunity to buy agricultural land, I am experiencing it with one demeaning, and the problem of this agricultural land in Istria is specific, why is it specific? First of all, because of the war exodus when Istria leaves about 140,000 people, and the fate of their country, their houses, their apartments, was beating up war damage with the Italian state. It's clearly a land of state, Octan's property is state property, there's no dispute until '93, it's municipal, but why since 2000, say the state of Istria didn't want to sell any square meters of agricultural land. It is certainly a political question that policy should also be answered, and without the farmer to reach the country, clearly without it there are no farmers and this norms if the farmer does not reach the country will be just a dead letter on paper although I absolutely welcome one such approach in this Encouragement Act. Before I say anything about looking at another problem that is likely to be the subject of this Agricultural Land Act, which is, say, the payment of unprocessed agricultural land. I think it's a little too brave, not all of Croatia, Slavonia, Međimurje, Podravina where you may be looking for a square of land more, perhaps such a norm is suitable for those parts, but hardly it can be for internal Istria, for Gorski Kotar, for Lika where to pay someone to work on the land of that someone you won't be able to find a candle to look for. And what's also important, I think that even, which will be found in the procedure unconstitutional, and let's not forget how some of them performed in the campaign when they talked there's no taxes on the apartment, which is absolutely good, there's no taxes on agricultural land, etc., which is also good, but now they're just being introduced, under quotes, we'll see what this law looks like, "sanctions" to those who won't be able, mostly because of their age, to process this land. Croatian, on the other hand, we heard Mrs. Chuhnil say they're about three acres away. From how we, for example, stimulate a peasant and order all wheat, corn with prices as they are, which will inevitably grow, but with that there will be little happiness. Italy, for example, has an average possession of 7.2 hectares, means somewhere double than in the Republic of Croatia, but with those 7.2 hectares, or on those 7.2 hectares, Italian farmers earn the highest added value due to the structure of fruit, vegetables, olives or olive oils, cheeses, prosciuttos, and that is one model that Croatia must surely go with this cattle production, pig farming, which will be helped for 2.3 billion kuna over the next 2 years with fishing, etc. However, it cannot only be asked to get something from the state and that only the state solves all our problems, whether it is agriculture, textiles, some other economic branches, fishing, boating, etc. The incentives are yes, but the essence is a clear country, not to be resold then, not to turn it into building plots, but to create a new Croatian farmer on the same basis, a new Croatian agricultural policy. No need to be clearly afraid of a rich peasant, not to be afraid of a rich craftsman, not to be afraid of a benevolent worker or a benevolent craftsman, this is what any normal, civilized country needs to do, and strive for people to be able to live decently, clearly. So the country should be given to the peasants, and in the event of the re-use of that country it needs the same, it should be clearly taken under the conditions under which it was obtained from the state. Clearly, a peasant should always meet to build something for himself on that earth. And finally, here is also spoken in indigenous breeds, it is clear that more than one, in order to express the image of Croatia, they should be particularly looked after by Istrian cattle or Bokarin, as to whom they are dear and beyond. I mean, it's not enough to stimulate itself. Clearly, in order to save the boscarin, the support will not play much, but always these support come well, it should be raised to one level of culinary offer, only it can guarantee the production and handling of humans, by growing these indigenous breeds that are generally much less worn than others. One word takes eating them to save them. It just can't be any different. Only this can guarantee mass production, only this leads to quantity, and everything else, unfortunately, leads to the disappearance of these breeds, mainly when it comes to Istrian cattle bokerins, etc. That's why I was talking at the beginning about encouraging cattle. Whether someone in Istria will use it I don't know, but I call on these people to try to act clearly in the direction of the competent ministry. And what today is also the case in Istrian areas when we talk about agricultural land as some companies once tried to register, often by formal decisions of competent courts on the so-called so-called so-called. tourism land, now is a trend to book or try to book on agricultural land. Jake are companies, they're hard to deal with, but because as soon as possible, the Law on Tourism Land should be passed, so the Law on Agricultural Land should also protect it. If one precedent passes, then you can think about what will happen in a Slavonia where large combinations are in private hands and that will make it clear why you better say nothing about anything, and on which you have not paid this square meter of agricultural land for decades, as tourists do not pay a clear lease of tourist land. And for the end, it's red, national pension policy, that's the point for the village. We need to save what's to be saved from these nursing homes. The peace is some security, there are more and more people who are clear when they get to these old days they can't work anymore, and one social state needs to help these people. At the end of one sentence, this law may not help much, but it will certainly enable survival, it will be a good start for a different treatment of agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13033	Thank you very much to the esteemed representative Caine. On behalf of the HNS Club, distinguished representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13034	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I'm joining the findings and colleagues of Cain and colleagues on behalf of the National Minorities Club, and that's better than nothing. We have before us amendments to the Law on State Support in Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry, 6th in a row since 2002, so there are additions and changes each year. It is logical when the system is not set at first in one logical system way, then the whole story needs to be constructed and adapted, and we can freely say for pre-election purposes. In fact, we heard on several occasions that today's bill on amendments and additions is the result of the government's programme and I believe that I have a good program ahead of me, that there are no more versions. Government Programme of the Republic of Croatia... 2008-2011. where on page 48.10.1 Incentives for agricultural production speak of two things. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] During this transitional period, the minimum incentive area will be at least 1 hectare of agricultural land, unless a smaller production area is already established in the existing law, in livestock production a minimum incentive production is one throat. This for 1 hectare stands, but I ask if this other fact stands, which is that in livestock production minimally stimulated production one throat. That's my question. It's in the government program. Another thing that is very important to me in this amendment and supplemental proposal, I failed to see if it was contained, but it says a system of degressive payment of incentives per user is being introduced. The arrangements for the implementation of this measure will be subsequently established. I repeat, a system of degressive payment of incentives per user is being introduced. If it says it in these changes and supplements, I don't know, but I'd really like to ask you to answer that. And when it will be, if it isn't now when it will be, because it's a very important thing in spending the total amount of money to encourage in agriculture, which are not small, which are huge. Tax taxpayers' money. And these measures will start to apply from 2008, which is true. It is crucial that nothing new and important and significant is offered in this proposed model of state support for agriculture and fisheries, and the fact is that this system needs complete changes and this change is based on a clear vision and strategy. We're referring to the 2002 Agriculture Programme. The 2002 Agriculture Programme makes it very clear that the Government is obliged to submit the so-called Croatian Parliament. Green report once a year. A green report showing or getting a picture of the situation in our agriculture. We've never received that green report before. It says in the 2002 Agriculture Act, and I think that this green report opens many stories, I think that this green report gives quality information, and I think that the foundation of this green report would give us a quality aid law in agriculture. Furthermore, it says in this Agriculture Act, I repeat from 2002, and this is Article 21(1): "The support for regional development of agriculture is aimed at encouraging the production of agricultural products in the croatian region for which there is a proportionate production competitiveness." Article 2: "A regulation laying down criteria for the establishment of agricultural regions in the Republic of Croatia with a statement of agricultural products that have production competitiveness in a particular region brings the Government." Did the government give it to us? Did we get it from the government? If we'd gotten that, we'd have had one better law. It may not be better quality of the Agricultural Support Act, but the basis of this strategy would make it more clear whether this bill has come closer, whether or not it has hit this, is never going to hit any Agricultural Support Act and be the law with which everyone will be satisfied, but that it is least unfair to express myself in this way. Third, according to Article 5. Agriculture law, it is said that agricultural policy is implemented under the National Programme for Agriculture and Rural Areas, that we have a national programme for agricultural and rural areas. Obligation under the 2002 Agriculture Act after six years we haven't received it yet, and we're talking about the development of agriculture and we're doing it for a variety of purposes, including pre-election, and we're not actually entering it. We didn't enter from 2002 to today 2008. Since 2002, the minister, today the same minister, the same problems, nothing has happened and nothing has happened in these strategic areas except these cosmetic parts. And what's our status in agriculture? At this point, no one can say it explicitly, we can speak subjectively and we can be influenced by those actions and activities that our farmers are fully justified to take, but at times when they really get water to their throats. I think it would be good if we were to determine ourselves once, according to the definition of the ceiling of the amount of support for legal persons, and that's what the government programme says, that a degressive method will be introduced, and that doesn't happen, then we get some major concerted, most of the incentive funds. To whose harm? To the harm of all those who have not received, and I especially encourage those who are not included in this Law on Agriculture, which is written in the Government's programme, which is that one throat will be encouraged. Furthermore, whether the purpose of the promotion of agricultural production is to stimulate the throat from imports. I haven't seen anywhere in this bill that at least there's been a distinction in the promotion of import throats, inciting domestics. And crucially, are we ready to provide our cattlemen with a system of incentives, a certain degree of protection of domestic production. By encouraging imports, I don't think in an adequate way they encourage us, I mentioned yesterday one of the information I heard recently. Yesterday when we were discussing budget rebalancing, these days 150 tons of pig's half, fresh pig's half, the same moment the price per meat unit fell from 20 lip to 17. Are we protecting our agricultural producer? These changes, and in Article 13, have not changed at all, have not changed at all, have remained the same as they have been so far. So now I'm asking, did our flower producers deserve a boost in agriculture? Did the noise oil producers deserve this incentive in agriculture? When we mention, when we make comparisons with olivers, the olivers have 4 basics right to encourage, and the producers of noise oil nothing or possibly one at a time, and I think that the pumpkin oil can have, if not the same, but at least similar status on both the domestic market and foreign market, because at the end of the bar in northwestern Croatia, especially in the Varazdin region and the Međimurska region, there is also this tradition. Furthermore, one illogicality that really does not make sense to me, which is tobacco is supported for all quantities delivered per kilogram, and on the other hand, for medicinal plants is supported by a minimum of one hectare. First of all, it is clear that for medicinal plants one hectare is too big a surface, it is clear to all. It may not be too big, but given the fragmentation of our agricultural plots, I think it's too big. We give tobacco per kilogram, and for medicinal herbs per hectare. Does that make sense? In my opinion, there is no, especially given our attitude and our determination, literals our determination in activities, actions against smoking. Furthermore, there are 6 thousand liters of milk restrictions left. We already know in 2002 that the measure does not result. We know there were attempts to bring it down to 3,000. However, there are still 6 thousand left, and with Croatia being one country in the future European Union, we can say that today, quite certainly, which will import milk as raw materials for processing. This is where when we talk about the minimum amount to encourage milk production, it's all the same as it was, the exact same thing. I hope we hit a minimum number of throats, here we're talking about white meat calves, fat pigs and cows in the system of cows, calves, sheep, rams, goats and goats, but I'm not sure it's the same balance, I'm not sure, and it doesn't make sense for me to encourage when we talk about the pieces of 25 breeding females we don't put into the same plane, 25 female breeding... And 25 throats of cows in the cow system, calf. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That doesn't make sense to me when you look at numbers, when I look at numbers, it doesn't make sense to me. Article 11 reduces the weight from 100 kilograms to 80 kilograms of warm body for fatted calves, excellent, that is probably necessary. However, the reasoning does not clearly show why this is not proposed, because in the assessment of the situation, it is on page 2 only states, based on the available data on the body load. My question is which and from which, for the production of white meat, it has been found that in certain cases the body weight is less than 100 kilograms, although the physiological animal is acceptable for slaughter and therefore the body weight is reduced. It's probably necessary. However, I ask the question, fashion is an unnecessary issue, but according to the information-based experience we have done, and on the other hand, nothing happens in this country by accident, especially in agricultural production, I'm talking about imports, etc. And when I mentioned a degressive payment of incentives earlier, many large combinations just created their size on the imports that we encouraged. And we're still allowing them to get what they've been getting so far. Does it happen that some manufacturer didn't offer that logical explanation so we could take it off? Probably not, I hope not. But I have the right to doubt. And finally, about the law itself, purely technical. This law has 18 articles, of which incentives, I repeat, 18 articles are processed only 7 articles. I'm talking about the law, the amendments to the Law on State support in agriculture, fisheries and forestry. There are 18 articles, 7 just talking about incentives. Not to mention now what these others are saying, you see for yourself. But I think we should call things a real name. And ask in the end what enters this country into the system of support in agriculture and what is the goal and what we want from our agriculture. Since we are both the IDS Club and the national minority and the Croatian People's Party agree that there is nothing better than nothing, and therefore the Croatian People's Party will also support these amendments and amendments to the law, I hope that these issues that are open to us, which we in the Croatian People's Party and through this debate, will be answered and will be resolved in later legislative proposals but for the benefit of Croatian peasants and Croatian farmers. Since they are encouraged, they create conditions, better quality conditions for nursing farming households, because of capital... In order to reduce the minimum amount of incentive, we will support this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But believe me, I hope that Croatian peasant and Croatian agriculture still have a chance and hope that for Croatian farmers hope does not die last
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13035	We have one application for correction of an incorrect allegation. Dear Representative Zdravko Kelić, please welcome
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13036	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, in his presentation, the esteemed representative Mr. Koračević said he was in the system of cows calf,... Twenty-five throats to achieve encouragement, that was so far. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now it takes 10 cows, a calf in the system to achieve an incentive, so he didn't even say in that part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13037	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the distinguished representative Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13038	Thank you. I've got a page 21 that says cow in the system, cows in the system, cows in the bodies, talking about encouraging livestock and livestock products, throat 25 numbers.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13039	Ma'am, the distinguished representative, Mariana Petir, is a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13040	Dear Mr. Vice President, he has injured the Rules of Procedure as much as he has provided incorrect information on page 8 has been amended and complemented by this law where the cow stands clearly in the system, cow-body, 10 throats, he reads the law that was now in force, so which we are changing, colleague Koračević, page 8. is the right side.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13041	It's okay to be read by an esteemed colleague because in the first part of the law's interpretation and need to change, then what's changed and finally the pages are given that say what was before the change, so he took this table that's valid before the change, I get it, but well, I think we're through these three tables and we explained that, ok. Let me just say that it is time to apply for an individual hearing in accordance with Article 207(2). Rules of Procedure. And we have another application on behalf of the club, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic, on behalf of the HDSSB Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13042	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State has left, fellow Members and colleagues. How about I who come from Slavonia and Baranja don't discuss this proposal for a law on state aid in agriculture, fisheries, forestry, forestry because it's the subject of another ministry by new. What is to say is strategically significant, or a strategic product for the Republic of Croatia and here is the time that is actually all over the world it is food clear and water, and here we are witnessing that from before what has already been energy today really in order to say because of the enormous prices in any case one of the strategic means strategically for the Republic of Croatia. When we look at our Slavonia and Baranja, then all three of these elements, in all three cases food, energy, water Slavonia and Baranja are abundant. Someone said that now it can be expected, given the addition precisely of all of this, that, Cain, is, that Slavia and Baranja will flourish, that Slavonia and Baranja will finally come to their own. That this will favour the progress of the region of Slavonia and Baranja. So far we've had so-called. The Adriatic orientation of the Republic of Croatia, which is drawn in the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme from the beginning when we adopted the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme in January and February. But here I think that these two elements of tourism and traffic, which also created the Adriatic orientation of the Republic of Croatia, can also move slowly towards Slavonia and Baranja. However we turn around and however we see these ours to say benefites, and our advantages of Slavonia and Baranja due to the lack of a agricultural strategy, due to the continuing actual promotion of imports and import quotas, in all segments, therefore, the imports of food, in particular now amounting to about 2 billion, almost 2 billion euros a year, due to a system of incentives that did not include small rural economies, the Slavonian peasant and the Baranja peasant, have actually come to a beggar stick and become a social category. That this is so well spoken in this or indirect article 12 which says that the beneficiaries of support for the income of another group of 5000 kunas have the right to pensioners as farmers. This indirectly admits that, in fact, the agricultural pensioner is a social category to cut short. What I would welcome in relation to the very changes in the law, and yet there are certain illogicalities in the minimally stimulating quantities and the description of stimulating cultures and breeds, which is that when we look at the page here 8, and later there are tables and this one is exactly identical that as someone has already noticed that for, here I am not jealous and I want all the best and good success in olive production, but we have olives by, to say in 4 sections. Olives, olive fruit processing, olive oil and olive oil. I think we're already working here to say that we're also entering a semi-processing or processing industry. And right behind that we have fruit growing, the first and second groups where we haven't even tried to analyze that our agricultural holdings in Slavonia that deal with fruit growing so that they can also start and produce, for example, in apple production, apple vinegar, juice, nut liqueur, fork rakija and so on. It's not in this table either in the first or in the second one, but I say here about saying olives I'm not jealous, I want our oil to be the best olive oil in the world as well, and what we can also provide in fruit growing and winemaking. When it comes to the Government's capital investment programme, it is clear that it is to welcome that the Government or the Ministry will, after considering its decisions, assist farmers in terms of investment in capital investments and that the guarantee of banks does not have to be the only one to guarantee and on the basis of which such support will be granted, or such contributions from the Ministry of Capital Investments. I would only add that we have here in this article, I do not know if there is a particular emphasis here behind the legal person dealing with fisheries Article 51: "The beneficiaries of the grant rights as part of the capital investment model are agricultural economies and natural and legal persons dealing with fisheries." And aquaculture because if fishing is applied exclusively to marine fisheries clearly that in what the government likes to say in Pannonian Croatia, I say in Slavonia and Baranja this refers to aquaculture. Someone here has said that in the eastern part of Vukovar-Srijem County there are villages which are precisely because of current agricultural policies and villages are exclusively engaged in agriculture almost relaxed. I would call it as someone already said the soft belly of Croatia, and such, unfortunately, soft bellies of Croatia exist in other parts of the Republic of Croatia in the Banovina area where it is also due to demographic opportunities but also to the policy in agriculture where it was previously encouraged, there was no such measure, therefore it is good that it has been changed in terms of livestock production, in terms of encouraging livestock farming we hope to improve in both regions. So where it is now, in fact, in some sense, there is a demographic, demographic one fall of the Republic of Croatia and it is linked exclusively to where agricultural areas are exclusively agricultural areas where residents deal exclusively with agriculture. In any case, this law, this bill, the bill, progress in relation to the previous regulation of state aid in agriculture, because we remember well when some to say landshares and thanks to poor inspection supervision, achieved hundreds and hundreds of hectares so they reported hundreds and hundreds of hectares of agricultural land for incentives and actually the contribution from what Mrs. Chuhnil said was too weak and the reference values were not respected. Unfortunately, inspection supervision was then, I say it was weak then and I hope that given the increased number of agricultural economies that will enter, which will enter the incentive system so it will enter the income tax register, the VAT that therefore we hope, I hope that this will also make it an indicator that will show that it is working, that the law has actually made a justification for its adoption, that the offerings will be better. Clearly, I see in this the role and supervision of inspection services that should clearly control the ratio, the hectare by quantity, according to the yield. I say I welcome again the decision by which the ministry, which the ministry can make and in connection with the investment of funds in the facilities itself, which it does not have to invest and which it does not have to support the bank with its own or the peasant who must be in charge of the bank, because we know well the mentality of our people who do not like to borrow, who likes to decide when to do so, when he has enough money to invest alone, and it is clear to welcome the decision to include the State, or the Ministry of Agriculture. In any case, according to the 2008 Budget of the Republic of Croatia, this 2 and a half billion kuna that are intended to promote agriculture at 2 million hectares and all other livestock funds and the rest we have in agriculture is to be welcomed and I think on behalf of the club I am saying that we will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13043	Thank you very much for your esteemed representative. We have two reports of correction of the quote. First of all, Mr. Representative Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13044	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to correct Mr Grubisic's incorrect claim that under this law we do not encourage brandy, fruit brandy, vinegar as we encourage olive oil. Therefore, according to this law, and also according to the rules of the World Trade Organisation and the rules of the European Union, these products must not be encouraged by production support. On the other hand, the Ministry of Agriculture, i.e. the State, encourages them through capital support and also through the marketing preparation of agricultural and food products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13045	Thank you very much. And another application for correction of the quote, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13046	Dear Vice President, one false allegation mentioned by Boro. I didn't say that this expensive food would only cause honey and milk to flow to either Slavonia or the village in general. Clearly, Slavonia needs help and she deserves it. She's been through one war. She's been through one conversion, one import, a preorientation of trade, and because of the potential she needs to be given because she'll know it all back. Of course, there's no bed to bring to the English! But on the other hand, that Slavonic peasant never learned to lie down early anyway. He should be paid for his work, but the opportunity is here. And now, whether a Slavonic peasant, whether an Istrian peasant, Međimurski, will use that expensive food doesn't matter, we'll see. I don't know that. But if we miss this chance of expensive food, clear food and oil aren't the same, second chances so soon we won't have. You can't just live off support and little ones I don't know what I'm gonna call pre-election blackmails. It may help a little, but it won't bring much to anyone. Therefore, the opportunity is here. If we use it, okay. If we miss out on the question of whether they will return again, and understandably the citizen in one Pula, Rijeka, Zagreb, Split should be helped with a differentiated VAT rate on food.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13047	Thank you very much. I see the MPs have brought it together and accepted it. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first one came from a respected representative, Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13048	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. In fact, when we talk about support in agriculture, it is clear that we can also talk through them about a complete agricultural policy. Namely, this law should be supported and I will support it first of all for two reasons. First, the agricultural budget increased by 2008. We have increased the support ourselves by 10%, and it is clear that this money should certainly create assumptions that it is more rapid, so that our producers can submit applications and that it is distributed on the ground. Secondly, what is to be said by this law and by increasing support both in absolute terms and by extending rights and users both in plant and livestock production. So it certainly contributes to increasing the competitiveness of our agriculture. But also these incentives are not in line with the trends in the European Union's incentive policy of support. Namely, what is currently happening in the European Union? Therefore, in the European Union, these production incentives are meant by kilogram, hectare, by throat, etc. So, these incentives go to a unique farm payment. In fact, while we on the one hand have a problem, and we want to maximise production, so we want to achieve as much as possible in all kinds of agricultural production as possible, as much as possible. On the other hand, the European Union has another problem, which is the problem of large surpluses in the production of agricultural products. It's a problem to store these products. So these are huge prices, which are paid because the European Union has a large production surplus in food production. Food is held in warehouses, above all, in order not to destabilise the market, so as not to resuscitate the market lines and to preserve the level of price and profit of the producer. Therefore, the European Union can say at this point there is another problem with regard to our own, and it is therefore important that we take full advantage of this time right now until we enter the European Union, to increase our support and thus give another additional support to agricultural production that our producers today, tomorrow, on the common market of the European Union, are as strong as possible, so as to be more competitive. What is happening in the European Union is therefore no longer encouraged to maximise the quantity of production. But on the other hand, there are conditions for support. So both the welfare of animals and the environmental and high standards and quality become conditions for these support to be paid at all. And in the background of everything, it is necessary to look at the European Union's position in relation to third countries and third countries' markets where, in this way, high quality standards want to fight competition, very often unfair, because in agricultural powers, let's just take the question of what do these people have, what are these employees, what are even social givings, what are these people's conditions? And it is clear that when viewed in relation to the European Union towards third countries, there is also some form of unfair competition. Take, for example, organic farming. Therefore, organic agriculture and its trend did not arise solely because of consumer demand and because of the consumer's high awareness of what organic food means, meaning food produced with minimal use of protection products, minimum processed food. Therefore, its nutritional values, etc., have also been affected by the fact that some countries in the European Union have made maximum use of their agricultural resources, above all by the country and have no place to go and simply have to pursue one balance with nature, that they have to go towards that organic farming and that they have to go towards sustainable agricultural production. So, right in countries where the highest and most intense agricultural production was, where the environment was the most disrupted, there is approximately the strongest trend for organic production. It is also interesting in this context that some European Union countries even encourage unprocessed agricultural land for one single reason, to stabilise the country, to rest, therefore, and to balance its exhaustion. We are in one other position, we need to maximise production and also use this time and use this budget, meaning to increase support to get more competitive into the European Union and to make it easier for our producers to deal with competition. In particular, what is important in this law is the technology of obtaining capital support. I think that capital support has just made the most of its contribution to structural reforms in agriculture because it has made more money go into equipment, into machinery, into irrigation, to building a farm, therefore to intensive production that generates more income for our producers and more competitiveness. It should be said that three, four years of implementation of the programme of raising permanent plantations, building livestock farms, etc. where we have also increased support and developed an entire one structure of incentives, it means that this is a major contribution to structural reforms, but also to higher income production. This law on the trail is an additional increase in support in this regard and should certainly be supported. Why are structural reforms still important to us, and why is it important to increase production? In fact, we are currently in a system of negotiations with the European Union and it is clear that we will negotiate production quotas and ceilings of support on the basis of some statistical reference periods, meaning where production will be recorded from 3, 4, 5 years, depending on how we are fighting and on the basis of this production we will create our negotiating positions and ask for production quotas, I do not know of the vine, meat production, milk production, etc. So these incentives are welcome and here, all the praises of the Ministry of Agriculture and for fighting for a stronger budget, but also what they are, here in time and I think our producers will be able to exercise their rights by the end of the year. Also, I think that the increase in support and incentives in this situation, so when the global market is also exposed to a drastic food collection. So it's certainly one and indirect measure, one indirect measure to mitigate the effects of the collection, not only food for humans, but also food for animals, so livestock production. And in the end, I'm going to say, so I support this law and, in some ways, I'm giving a boost and let the Ministry of Agriculture speed up the activities at the establishment of a paying agency that will control the payment and realization of incentives, but which is also a prerequisite for us to even participate in the European Agricultural Fund. In fact, perhaps for an illustration too, what does incentive policy mean? Namely, the countries that entered the European Union, the 10 transition countries, so in 2004, did not get that level of incentives that the old countries receive for one single reason not to fall asleep and to stop structural reforms. So it was one and the policy of the European Union, so since it is still not good to have too many incentives that then, clearly in some way do not motivate our agricultural producers enough to exactly go towards higher income and more competitive production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13049	Thank you very much. A esteemed colleague, Ante Kulusic, also applied for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13050	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Law on State support in agriculture, fisheries and forestry is adopted in July 2002 and its related amendments and additions constitute a fundamental legal framework on which the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development continues to carry out operational reforms of agricultural policy. As part of the latest preparations for membership in the European Union, the ministry has initiated activities for an ever-increasing amendment of the laws under way, which should prepare agriculture for a fair and painless transition to common agricultural policy legislation in the next period. However, with the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme for the 2008/2011 term of office. The other new regulations have created a framework for the existing provisions of the law to be adapted urgently. From inspection practice, the practice of the European Union results in a too strict provision of Article 3 whose beneficiary of State support may submit a new claim for the acquisition of the right to State support only after 2 years, counting from the date of finalisation of the solution ordered by the agricultural inspector to return the funds to the user, and is therefore proposed to reduce that time-limit to one year. The Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a regulation amending the Law on State Support in Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry extending the period for one year to all family economies that, when applying for incentives, they must prove that they are entered in the register of income taxpayers in the tax administration according to income tax regulations. Since most of the family farms are still outside the income tax system, a similar provision has been incorporated into this law with an additional extension from one more year to 1 January 2010. In the second group of income support models, the basis for the payment of support is also changed and, instead of the current right of 5 thousand kuna per economy, income support is granted either by the holder or by member, with the maximum amount of support per economy being up to a maximum of 10 thousand kuna. Such a provision is proposed in order to avoid practice on the ground where non-commercial holdings were split in order to achieve the greatest support. This group of income support models also introduces a new group of beneficiaries of income support rights. They are members of a holding of more than 65 years of age who do not generate income on any basis. In fact, the Government Programme provides for the introduction of state support for older people without any income, so the intention of this law is to find a solution for such non-commercial agricultural economies which are one of the most socially endangered categories of the population. Amendments to Appendix 3 which prescribe a reduction in minimum stimulating quantities. The adoption of the law extends the rights to state support in agriculture in accordance with the Government's programme on users with less resources than ever before. The implementation of this law does not require additional resources but will be implemented through the redistribution of the state budget for 2008 within the division of the competent ministry. I will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13051	Thank you very much. In addition, the esteemed representative, Marijana Petir, applied for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13052	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, MPs and MPs. I will take advantage of the opportunity at the beginning of my presentation to deny Mr. Cain who took advantage of the breach of the Rules of Procedure to point out that this law is the result of political blackmail. I must have this law as a consequence of a political agreement and that of wise politicians, because it would be a poor country that would have unreasonable politicians, politicians who wouldn't worry about the survival of the Croatian village and the development of rural space. Therefore, the only intensities of this law are to implement the objectives of the Law on Agriculture and Agricultural Policy in the Republic of Croatia, which means that we really need to preserve the 100,000 family holdings that are presently in the register and which receive different kinds of incentives. I also believe that, of course, this is the position of the Croatian peasant party, that it is important to contribute to the preservation of rural space with different measures in agriculture and to create conditions for Croatian agriculture to be competitive on the domestic and foreign markets. We are witnessing that there are major challenges in this area, major problems and that the European Union is in some way having doubts about the common agricultural policy, and in that part, it is no wonder that they single out large financial resources from their budget for the development of agriculture, for support and for the development of rural space. I mentioned in previous reports that 30% of the European Union's budget is going to agriculture. The fact is that we made a big step when we increased the budget for the Ministry of Agriculture by 30% compared to the previous years. It now stands at 4 and a half billion kuna, and when it adds various measures to other ministries related to aid in rural development, that is, 6 billion kuna. But if we consider that the state budget of the Republic of Croatia discussed here yesterday is 130 billion kuna, then I would certainly like to see these 6 billion slowly begin to grow in accordance with the standards of the European Union that we so often call upon so that we may reach 30 billion for Croatian agriculture, because that would certainly not have been thrown away. We are witnessing that in other countries of the European Union, as well as in our neighbours, people who guard the rural area receive money to live in that area, to preserve it, to preserve their indigenous architecture, to preserve agricultural land, not to grow it, but also to produce specific products of their region, or their climate. That is, the intensity of these changes and additions, but of course I expect that the Ministry of Agriculture will actually solve this problem in full. Certainly, then, to pass a brand-new aid law in agriculture. I think it's extremely good that it went to encourage one hectare, one throat, because I think it's really important for all of our family economies. But what I must also say and agree with some of my predecessors, I expect to establish a cap for large companies, for those who actually use around 17.5% of the incentives in agriculture today, which are large producers. I also have to agree with those who have appealed here, and I have talked about it through several debates especially when it comes to the Croatian Bank's report for Reconstruction and Development, to advocate that the subsidisation of interest for the lending of entrepreneurship and farmers only goes to those who do not really deal with imports and do not compete with domestic agricultural production. So in this sense, and here are the ministers, I ask you to make additional efforts to ensure that this one practice that exists in Croatia that also importers receive a subsidized interest on imports of agricultural products, that this practice is abolished because I think it is extremely bad and harmful. Also, if we remember that case of an unfortunate Shana cow from Ivanova who was declared crazy that some importers from the meat industry could, of course, introduce unquality meat, and then rehabilitate the cow again and say she wasn't crazy. For such, I would also introduce special measures, because they certainly do not contribute to the development of Croatian agriculture but rather to the contrary, and they also give us a bad reputation and put bad labels on them. And Croatia certainly doesn't deserve it, Croatia deserves much more and much better because we are a small country with relatively well-preserved space. We still have traditional production, we are working through different measures to preserve our indigenous seeds and our indigenous varieties and therefore I welcome that there is a provision in this law to encourage organic production. In any case, my proposal would be that through the whole law when it will be introduced and encouraged to monitor and certification in organic production, because I think it will significantly stimulate agricultural producers precisely for that type of production. The HSS policy is embedded in the government's policy and these changes re-enlarge the number of users of incentives, it will allow small family farms to really get one stimulation for further farming, but also for staying in the Croatian village. They're interesting to us not only because they keep space, but because they produce food. We can call this food a people's jargon healthy food because it is, and I would like it to be on the market for agricultural products and to achieve a much better price than it is today. According to my information here in these six months, the Ministry of Agriculture has paid off all the backlogs that are related to incentives, which is about 2.2 billion kuna, which is an extremely large amount of money, but I think that's what farmers expected, because it's logical that they can't go in spring or autumn unless they have the support of the state that they've been given by law. I certainly welcome the ministry's policy that the future incentive will be paid in time and also at the amount guaranteed, because I think it's the only way for really agricultural production in Croatia to take one upward path. Of course, cancer-earth Croatian agriculture is a agricultural land, and we will also discuss these days the new Law on Agricultural Land, which really brings big newspapers, and in this area I think a great order should be introduced, that state land starts to have a much more efficient, but also more honest than we're used to looking at on our Croatian occasions. I also believe that private-owned land should be directed towards rounding and permanent loss of agricultural land should be prevented from being relocated to building land, which has already been said here in this hall. I also want to point out this part about income support, I think that's very good. We are witnessing that today really some farmers, people living in the country, live at 300, 400, 500 kuna, I advocate the introduction of a minimum pension, we can call it a minimum pension, a national pension, and according to a coalition agreement, that law will come into the process. Income support, however, is something else, but it is certainly a good instrument which, by now increasing from 5 to 10 thousand kunas, contributes to the fact that commercial economies, or not commercial economies, are not split up but to stay and to get as much support as possible, and I also think that this is important for just those who are over 65 years old, who do not make revenue on any basis. I would also like to point out that here is the concept of the law we are discussing today of the Agricultural Support Act, the Agricultural Land Act, but I also have to say the market order recently passed to the Government and the Storage Act that we are going to refer to, is a new concept, a much more efficient, much better concept of the development of Croatian agriculture. I think it is up to all of us, no matter what political option we belong to, to contribute to the survival of Croatian villages, because we know that a large number of Croatian villages are dying, that a lot of young people are going to the cities or the belly after bread, or to study for any occupation just so they don't stay in the country. The Croatian village needs to be provided with conditions such as those in the city, they need to be provided with municipal infrastructure, plumbing, sewerage, roads, social infrastructure, kindergartens, Jaws, schools and with this budget of the Ministry of Agriculture with the laws that I have listed and with the budget of the Government of the Republic of Croatia we have set out in this demanding process of rebirth of Croatian villages, but surely it will take a great deal of effort and much more, but it certainly needs political support, so not only the ruling coalition's decision, but the political support of all those who have a Croatian village in the heart. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13053	Thank you very much. A distinguished representative named Zdenka Chunhil appeared for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13054	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I have to say that I agree with my colleague in one thing, that making the law here is a policy deal, but every law has to be based on the profession, and unless it's based on the profession, then it's a disaster under that law. But I didn’t answer because of it, but I did report just because a colleague on one side is talking about the competitiveness of agriculture, and she wants to do so with rural measures. When we talk about the competitiveness of agriculture, we need to talk about agricultural production, costs, or calculations in production, which will cost us and how to create certain production as competitive as possible. When we talk about rural development, then, or rural measures, it will lead to the development of rural space, and then, on the one hand, quality, competitive production, on the other hand, rural measures that develop rural space must now give the benefit of life in the country, i.e. as the ultimate result, income, and then the well-being of rural residents. There's no way we can get rid of these two things, one thing is agricultural production, one is the competitiveness of that production, one is the market, and the other is rural space and rural measures, but the goal is to achieve what I said and I think it would be good to approach it in that way, because you believe there's never going to be anything from our agriculture, if we're just going to keep that rural segment without taking care of production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13055	Thank you very much. Replica's response, the esteemed representative Petyr. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13056	So here it is precisely about a law that contributes to promoting agricultural production and ensuring competitiveness and agricultural production on the domestic and foreign markets. I mentioned that European agriculture is also more competitive than Croatia, because Europe recognized that it should invest in its agricultural production and, through various measures, make it naturally competitive. That takes money. We here use the bottom-up approach and top-down approach, which does not only include rural development measures, but also includes those measures that need to make Croatian agriculture competitive. And how are we gonna do that? Well, of course, this is one of the laws that contributes to this and that last week we discussed in this Parliament on indigenous products, their marketing preparation, and that everything that is done is done in a way that we are not only going to go to the bare agricultural production, but we are going to create instruments and mechanisms to create this agricultural product from some raw material a final product that will achieve a better wage power on the market. Of course, it takes a whole chain, for it to include both the food and processing industry, and as far as I know, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is, I think, the day before yesterday at its session and opened a tender, where the agricultural and processing industry will be stimulated in that part that will connect with agricultural producers and will naturally place finished products on the market. So you can't say that one of the concrete measures is not that the Ministry of Agriculture and the Government of the Republic of Croatia has made a decision on the intervention measure for farmers and fishermen when it comes to the price of blue diesel and the subsidy which will also be through the budget, that is, already yesterday, the budget rebalance, is determined, which will help not only fishermen and farmers survive, but have this one supplement that will make their production more competitive.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13057	Thank you. Further to the debate came the esteemed representative of Denesh Shaw. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13058	Mr. Vice President, esteemed ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Let me get involved with a few sentences, as they appeared here from the area of Srijem, Slavonia, so let something about Baranja be heard about this problem and point a little bit to some data, as we see this problem in this context. I would not like to repeat anything that a colleague from Vukovar-Srijem County has very nicely expressed about the situation in our villages. But I think there are some shifts, and that's why we're pushing for more. In fact, rough calculations show that the existence of farmland processing below 50 hectares is hard to imagine today. And that's probably the reality. However, there are some other calculations that are real and questionable, because some have done a calculation and said that with 100 acres of quality orna which are processed and good results are achieved, of course, provided there is no elemental accident, income can be achieved approximately or the same as we here as the representatives of this bench. I was thinking about it then and now I'm saying, if any of us from rural areas were offered 100 acres and mechanization I believe that none of us would have replaced it for these benches, maybe some would but I believe they wouldn't. In this context, allow me to just specifically say a few information related to the area of Baranja. Baranja is rich in orange surfaces somewhere around 65 thousand hectares, it's not a small area, and it was specific about the structure of ownership in prewar years and it's still a little bit like that for now. In fact, while the relationship between the social, social and private in Croatia at the time was 70, about 72% in favour of the private and 28 state-owned in Baranja was opposite 70 and several percent were, mostly, Belje and Croatian forests, i.e. forests and cooperatives, while 20 and several percent were private sectors. Which means somewhere around here. 40,000 hectares of orange land in state, social and now state property. Local communities have made their own programmes available to those areas according to the provisions of the law, and according to the provisions of the laws, the programmes have provided for certain areas, far the largest for concessions, something to sell cca. 20% of it's also realised in a good way, some leases, not small surfaces and returns to those who were taken from the 45th and the sixth above the naxim. And finally some small percentage for the development of the settlement. Here you would have one small remark only of this area for the development of the settlement and for the return, when we discuss the Law on Agricultural Land, perhaps some adjustments should be foreseen there because this is only available for a short period of one year and I think that, as far as land processing is concerned, it is not the happiest solution. The problem right now is that for all those households that don't have 50 acres means less, in our villages how to ensure a solid existence. Therefore, the exit is only seen in the following, that rural investments are made in these areas, to create infrastructure so that they can accept or develop territorial and service activities and find a source for existence along their perhaps small gardens, and this is assumed to be built on footings through roads of the water network, gas, sewerage, restoration of cultural goods, etc., complete so that hunting fishing wine and other forms of tourism can be developed on these rich resources available to Baranja and some other areas in the rural part of our republic. In this respect, I must point out here that from these local community revenues, specifically and for example in the municipality where I am chief, where there are more than 7,000 hectares of land in that concession, means the largest area is located, a concession per hectare of 330 kuna is paid, that is not one quarter of the market price and that 330 kuna is divided between the state budget and the municipality budget, that means 165 kuna per hectare. And now take if you can imagine what 7, 7.5 thousand acres means and the income is about 700, 800 thousand. With those means, all of what I've listed here is impossible to do. However, given this situation, we still welcome and appreciate that Belje has made a great effort in the last two years of the Agrokora system, they have invested large resources in modernising agricultural production as well as in processing capacities and we expect certain effects, of course as regards new jobs, this is a relatively small number. But that's why for the construction of this infrastructure that I've been talking about all the Baranja municipalities in the last 5, 6 years, they've come across a certain understanding of government and certain ministries, and there's really a significant step there, however, it's not enough yet. And I don't think so, but I'm convinced that we're going to continue, these investments in our resources and thus ensure that certain jobs and existence are provided there for all those who don't have 50 acres. And given the content of this law that I haven't specifically talked about, but in these social aspects that are highlighted here they will ease the situation in a certain way, they won't give a definitive solution. That's why I absolutely support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13059	Thank you very much. Mr Dragutin Bodakoš applied for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13060	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, esteemed MPs and MPs, colleagues. Let me conclude that the proposal on amendments and additions to the Law on State Support in Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry with the Final Proposal of the Law, although this forestry will not stand then but stands here, when this law is read clearly indicates that this law is the product of the coalition agreement of the ruling parties, it is here and established also by a colleague of MPs, not by agreeing support to a model that the European Union has. In our case, this law goes on to increase the number of users of incentives as a result of the reduction of the censorship of the throat of cattle, which is from the point of view of justice should be correct. At the same time, however, Europe is going to support the circular economies with more hectares and cattle throats. Since this law, which is offered, is a matter of coalition partners and their agreement, we must say that regardless of what it is, it is certainly an incentive for most workers or people who are engaged in agriculture, who have small possessions, however, we must also say that it does not solve the essence of the problem. And what's the point of the problem? Well, the point of the problem here is already highlighted by counterpart Chuhnil, it is certainly an increase in production in agriculture and preparedness and the same agriculture to be set evenly in line with the common agricultural policy of the European Union. This means that it is not good for us to classify manufacturers as small and large rather as economically successful or economically unsuccessful. Those who can offer a ton of wheat or a kilogram of live scales produced in such a way as to be competitive with the European product are a good producer and we need such producers to deal equally with European agriculture. In order to be equal and to be able to participate in Europe's common agricultural policy, the time for reconciliation is unfortunately less and less. Although we have heard it and the prime minister has said that we have fulfilled and delivered everything, all the criteria necessary for the opening of all chapters, negotiations on the accession of the European Union, this law must be denied because this law on aids that are in Europe does not otherwise believe that we will be able to conduct equal negotiations. It's set up in Europe to be paid per hectare or economy, and look what we're trying to do here. Unfortunately, in the Support Act, we also mix a social note that should be addressed through social programmes aimed at the village and the nursing home. The population in the country is getting older, and the properties are small, and therefore we need to stand openly and precisely to this problem. I think the worst thing is that the solutions to this problem are the welfare that are offered through this law. Members of these economically invaluable households should include other forms of care. They should also be stimulated to join together through associations that organise production. They're cooperatives, cooperatives. And that's how they realize the support. Because looking for support for one hectare or one throat doesn't have its own justification. The administration, great, we know that it is to a large extent the same as the nursing home which often times puts its own hectare and gives in the policy, the policy of having someone else process it. Thus, they should be organized in a way to obtain this support but not to be the ones who will have to do it on their own. What the state needs to set up are, this is what Mrs. Zgrebec said and said something these are just criteria for the ionization of production in the areas that are most favourable and make the biggest contributions. Let's say it's Slavonia, wheat, barley, sunflower, rape oil. Well, it's not the same to produce wheat in Slavonia or Istria that mentions this, as it is called, Mr. Cain. It means that we include all such surfaces regardless of their size and support system. Because with these support and production that can be achieved on these surfaces, we will also have production that will be competitive with Europe. Especially then, it will not happen that individuals come to land leases in some municipalities by strange criteria and priorities, that there is no feedback on the production of these land. They usually have the production of which is also the biggest support and only appear in the support application they usually receive first and without reference contributions. That's exactly what often happens to us that we have on paper production, and when we add that up at the end of the harvest, then we see that these productions were not even there. While I am already talking about the realisation of the support and these surface fraud, I particularly think that it is not necessary to change Article 3 and it concerns Article 2 in the new provision concerning the acquisition of the right to State support only after two years after the fraud in relation to the acquisition of support for areas which have not been sown. Calling on the inspection practice that results in that? About those inspections. Do we have any indicators that were caught in that? Then practice to make the European Union, the European Union, that this is too strict. I am now calling on the European Union, and the whole law is actually falling back from that European Union incentive. And today, when the whole state is fighting corruption and when we know that many people are hiring to get support that is not negligible and when production is insufficient and small compared to the sown hectares on paper, I think that abolishing it should not be applied. Let’s say that this year we have a harvest of 136 to 140 thousand hectares with an average yield of 4 and a half tons should have enough about 600 thousand tons of wheat. Over 300 million support will be given to that. Now we shall see after this harvest whether it will be done and whether all those who have reported these support, that the age of support have they realized it? Therefore, changing this article and easing sanctions for fraud in my opinion does not have any concrete reasons only if we do not want to encourage them to do so more often. I think it's more useful to increase the support of the right manufacturers who tend to make the most of their hectares and therefore invest more in production and have bigger inputs. And to finally praise this part, I have raised the level of agricultural development, and part of the capital investment law is changing, which is certainly to welcome. The change in the model of capital investment should certainly give a boost to the introduction of new productions and the overall increase in agriculture. If the quality is exceeded this part of the law in the rule of law, the amount of grants will increase in each complex investment, which is the ultimate goal of each manufacturer and encourage that investment to be completed and that we have more production. And finally, this law should be passed with certain corrections. I am particularly talking about this Article 2 but it should soon be amended according to the harmonised objectives of the common agricultural policy of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13061	Thank you. Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13062	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Today in the debates we heard certain views of certain regions as well as the county and I could also speak on behalf of my region or my Bjelovar-Bilogor County, respecting the specificities of each of the environments from which we come. In my debate, however, I would like to point out above all the positive efforts of the Ministry of Agriculture to implement the initial reforms of agricultural policy in the proposed amendments to the law on state support in agriculture, fisheries and forestry. Personally, I believe that this is a step forward and that this is a good direction in the operationalisation of the Croatian Government programme by 2011 relating to state support in agriculture. I also advocate the adoption of these amendments and the additions to the emergency procedure, as some solutions and provisions of this regulation would be good to apply already in this year 2008. Because we all know that our villages, the Croatian villages, are waiting long enough, waiting for a solution to certain problems of their own. Therefore, I think it is necessary to intervene urgently and quickly and take important measures and, as soon as possible, to arrange and determine the minimum quantities encouraged by this regulation, we should be able to help our food and village producers to the fullest extent possible. I believe that each of our state support users will well accept the possibility proposed by these amendments, above all to reduce the deadline for submitting a new request for support from two years to one year. I'm sure this abolishing of this too strict provision will be well accepted and that's why it's personal and I support it. I point out here and the fact that there are still very many family economies that are not included in the register, i.e. they are not in the VAT system and there is a good decision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia where our households are provided to extend their registration into the register of family holdings until 1 January 2010. I believe that the competent services, the ministries, but I also believe in the engagement of our local and regional self-government will be further engaged to meet citizens and our family farms with the proposed changes. I believe that we will all do what we can to preserve Croatia's village and keep young people in the country, and this extension of the registration deadline gives the family's holdings the opportunity to analyse the current situation, set their goals, set programmes and hope to make a decision to stay in the country and deal with agricultural production. In particular, I consider an important second group of income support models where the basis for the payment of aid is changed from current 5000 to the possibility of providing economic support to up to 10000 kuna. The introduction of a new group of rightholders of income support solves the problems of the most vulnerable population group over 65 years of age and does not generate income on any other basis. I am convinced that these support is designed to strengthen agricultural production and strengthen the competitiveness of our agricultural producers, i.e. our farmers, and thus create a prerequisite for producing sufficient quantities of food for our needs and for the needs of exporting, which means we should not depend on the import of food. This independence of produced food, of sufficient food produced in the time ahead, I think that independence from everyone else we have mentioned for the Republic of Croatia is the most important. Are these measures sufficient and the desired goal has been reached? The desired target has not yet been reached. The measures of these changes and additions are in motion and over a certain period of time we will see to what extent they are sufficient. If they didn't believe we'd do them, build them up and improve them. From what we have heard today and in the debate of matter, we see it complex and complex, and it is necessary to find solutions with a number of new laws in this area, in my opinion long-term solutions that create security in family farms in order to remain in the Croatian village. It's one of those laws, and it's already at our house in a parliamentary debate, in a procedure. It's the Agricultural Land Act, and I believe it will respond to a series of ambiguities. I especially point to a good model of capital investment that helps family farms, especially small family farms, especially beginners, as well as those of family farms who want to expand production to stay in the country and start to deal with agricultural production, or food production. These proposals, as well as other proposals mentioned in these Amendments and additions to the law on state support in agriculture, fisheries and forestry, are welcome and are part of the Croatian Peasant Party programme, i.e. more specifically, the rebirth of Croatian villages, including, for all the good solutions proposed, I support these amendments and additions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13063	Thank you. Mr. Representative Shimo Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13064	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of honor. I would not like to repeat what my predecessors have said in their discussions, but I would like to say something about the effects of the aid in agriculture, regardless of what support it is, whether it is support for crops, whether it is support for milk, meat or capital support in agriculture. But what I'm saying is that if we analyze all the previous years from the moment these support was introduced, I want to say directly from the field that these support has also brought good effects. For example. 410 acres of new plantations, 40 new farms, renewed machinery was planted in my Brod-Posavina County. And if I have to go back again and find out when the first areas of agricultural land were leased, I can say that that moment those who competed received those areas in the contest welcomed quite unprepared, especially those who did not deal with that agricultural production. They had a tractor strength of 70 to 100 horses, perhaps one tractor of less horsepower, and we have to admit, in the beginnings they satisfied and followed all the agrotechnical and other measures and, therefore, at the very beginning did not get the same results in the quantities of agricultural products that were expected to be produced, mainly because the agricultural combinations of course had good machinery, but they also had a profession that followed from the first one of the shops, the eagles from the protection and harvesting i.e. Compensation at the end and storage of the same goods. I think in that very beginning that we made a few mistakes, and I think it's my fault that at the very beginning the land was leased by those people who didn't know how to deal with this branch of production, and they got enormously large surfaces just for the purpose of picking up the support. And that was indeed the mistake we have now made and the mistakes made by the county commissions for the allocation of agricultural land in this period, and we have to correct it and we have to fix it because there is no logic that in one municipality, for example. which has 2,000 hectares of farmland that 4-5 farmers will get almost everything, and those who deal with and produce milk and meat have insufficient amounts of agricultural land to feed the cattle and, as our colleagues have said, remain in that Croatian village, so that the village will not be left at the end of the desert. And we made one more mistake, and that's those people who were part of World War II who had no internship, their internship in World War II has been established two times and attributed to a working internship in one of the factories. However, those who have not been participated in certain factories, meaning they do not have a working job, are now receiving a 1097 kuna supply and do not have the right to income support. It's not good, it's not right. They don't get a pension, they get supplies. And I would ask if it is possible for those persons, to remove that injustice from them and that they also have the right to income support that has now been increased in the draft of this law, and I absolutely support it. I'd still like to warn you of two or three problems, and that's a choice of agricultural land. That's what I was saying the last time. We need to counter all forces and more of that land, because according to the current State Geodetic Administration pays 34%, the municipality on which the measure is made 33%, the county by 33%, because if we don't do so, there is no programme available to any of the four types of agricultural land available. Another problem we find in the field, and that's a comeback. Dear friends, ladies and gentlemen, the return is going extremely slowly, I would say absolutely not. So we have to appeal and I personally appeal to this occasion, and I believe that I have your support, the state's attorney's office, to arrange for those families, the individuals who applied until 31.12.1997, to have the right to return, to finally return and execute. And of course on those three other factors or forms of availability to agricultural land, it's a lease, concession and sale. There is no availability unless the measurement is done again and what was 20 days ago on the agenda, which is the rounding of agricultural areas.- And one more thing, I repeat what I said 20 days ago, and that is the editing of the detailed channel network of the 3rd and 4th lines. In my Brod-Posavina County, only 15%, about 920 kilometers. If we want to give it to local municipalities, cities and counties for management from 1.1.2009, we will not be able to reach this pace. And I therefore ask the maximum coordination between the Ministry of Agriculture and Croatian Waters, that this work be done in a reasonable manner in order to be able to maintain, beg, cut, tarup, etc. to do, because what they did a year and two ago won't need to be renewed, maintained these and next years. And I would only finally argue that I would personally support these amendments and additions to the Agricultural Support Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13065	Thank you. Replica, vice president of the House, Ms. Zeljka Antunovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13066	So here I listen carefully to this debate and also to the debate of colleagues who have counted a number of very objective and very real problems that farmers and our agriculture face. However, these problems have little to do with this concrete law, but they are very real problems. And at the same time, a colleague, like many before him who supported these amendments to the law, says this is good and this will solve this problem. Well, on the contrary, all of the things you guys talked about or part of what you were talking about that I support as very real problems, this law is not going to help solve these problems, it's going to make it even harder. How will this law affect the circulation of the agricultural economy? On the contrary, it will affect the exact opposite. This law not only has a negative impact on solving real and objective and difficult problems and individual farmers and the overall agriculture of the economic branch, but it is also in complete disorientation with what Croatia will have to go to tomorrow. We are actually delaying facing what we are obliged as a state to prepare agricultural producers. We make them this concession, this delay, and finally, when we face the European Union, they will be completely unprepared. Instead of strengthening their position and their readiness, the state makes them disabled and out of pure political initiatives. Unfortunately, this is the essence of criticism under this law, and so when you speak objectively about problems, do not support anything that makes these problems difficult and not solved.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13067	Replicate response, Mr. Representative Shimo Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13068	Dear fellow Members, I have supported this bill and I have said the effects that this law has won on the ground so far and commendably said because the circle of support is increasing and expanding, and for one reason one reason that our Croatian peasant would welcome the match in the European Union, a difficult match waiting for him. So in order to be competitive on this raw European market, I am giving absolute support to this proposal and I thank both the Ministry and the Government for expanding the circle of support, but in the context of those tasks that should be done quickly. I said about rounding up the agricultural land, the arrangements... Third and fourth-row networks and that was it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13069	That's it. Mrs. Representative Nadica Jelash. She's gone. He's losing his word. Mr. Vice-President of the House, Josip Friscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13070	Dear Mr Vice President, Mr. Minister, surely this is one of the topics that in the overall problem and the issue of regulating the area of food production, as well as the use of our national space and resources that gives land and all the things that are being added to it and the cause and need, and I see also the desire for discussion in which direction and how to develop this branch, and also determines the long-term commitment to our area which some call rural, some call rural, but surely we understand both what we're talking about. By observing what is regulated by these amendments and by supplementing the law with what is waiting for us or by doing parallel alignment on the path of our entry into the European Union, we can read from these measures because this is what changes and amendments to the law suggest that this is not something that is intervening, which is what we would say fire, one-time, but actually fits into what we are in relation to others today and where others are going tomorrow because several times in the debate has been highlighted and it is good that when we are discussing certain measures, the legal proposals in this home that we are thinking about what is waiting for us tomorrow. But we must also look at and monitor what others are predicting and how they imagine the development of certain branches and activities, and certainly agriculture is where the European Union is, but the whole world is considering today how to create sufficient food production for the population, but also the social security of those involved in this activity. When we adopted a certain regulation, a few years back in the various compositions of the Government and the Parliament, we always had in our minds what today is the European Agricultural Strategy, and it was based on surplus production, on supplies, on full warehouses. Today it's a whole other commitment. There are no more of these surpluses, no more of these supplies, agricultural production or agriculture has become a raw material base for an equally important and important area and branch, it is a question of energy and we will quickly and in this home ministry and as a country as a whole find ourselves in front of a dilemma where we make a limit between what I want to focus and define for energy production because we know that Europe has given 12% of the energy from these sources, America 18%, we are only at the beginning, but we have to keep an eye on what our first task is. In my opinion, our first task is to create enough food to feed our population, to ensure sufficient amounts of food for consumption in Croatian tourism, and to create certain conditions and production for export through the processing industry. A lot of people talk about whether or not we're competitive. Our farmer is competitive with this kind of property, he's competitive with this production, and all of these measures we only create the conditions for him to be more competitive tomorrow, because let's not forget, farmers also survived with sold wheat from last year's crop with kuna and 5 limes. But they earned those who exported that wheat, and today we eat bread imported wheat, and if it hadn't been for import permits, they wouldn't have anything to produce bread from, and some even imported 2 kunas and 50 limes. And that's where I expect the government, the ministry, to propose measures and take care of how it balances our production to meet our needs. Many today speak and feast that in Croatia we do not know what is happening from 100,000 to million hectares. With these measures, these amendments and the additions of the laws we introduce into the system according to my estimate between 150 and 200 thousand hectares, this is what today between 40 and 50 thousand of these small family economies have, which have fallen out because of three accounting units from the incentive system and we will know very well what they produce and how they carry it into production. But what is also important and why does this law have its longevity? That is because tomorrow we expect support from the European Funds and we will get them, regardless of the debate that was being held here, whether they will be the same limit as for some other countries or perhaps something less, but it will certainly be only for what we can prove and declare that we have also encouraged them so far. If we leave those thousands of acres out of the incentive system, those cows, that milk production, that meat, we won't be able to declare it tomorrow and prove that we encouraged it and that we should continue to encourage it. In what way, for this now where dilemmas, whether to encourage production per hectare or by quantities, we still hold quantities, believe me, Europe is preparing for a new strategy. Who listened three days ago when Sarkozy called for the French precedent with the European Union, then after saying that he would make efforts to address the issue of functioning related to the European Constitution, the question of the new Strategy for Agricultural Production was immediately said, because the world is determined that every hectare needs again, each area puts into operation what it should do for food, and what it will be for us tomorrow is a dilemma, how much food it will use for food, and how much for energy production. What's important and significant, also with these changes, is the removal of something that's been a gulag for decades, 50, 60 years in these areas was a synonym for a farmer, because if he had more than 10 acres, 50 years ago he was a gulag, so it took him away. Now it's said on one occasion that 10 acres can't live. Gentlemen, he survived, he survived and decreased by 10 acres, and those who say they created the combinations, they ate in the past composition of the government, and when this party was in a coalition agreement, billions and eventually came back to the drum, and these survived. Therefore, those who have survived know how to survive and should be helped. Many say that we transfer income support to the social category. The one who, at the age of 10, is 55, because now he's 65 for his birthday, he's got short hair, what we say in Podravina, couldn't he have had big hair, that wouldn't be a social problem. Because he says, I've been making food my whole life and now until I can't work anymore, now someone wants to put me in the social problem category. I still have my two, three Rally Grunts to help me. And right now this increase from 5 to 10 grand per family economy makes it possible for these people not to have to share the household at 65 years, to part to get an extra 5 grand, but it's accepted as reality, it's built into the law, and I think that's a good solution. And what I was saying about capital support, our peasant, so he doesn't go to the store without having money in his pocket, and it's said if he invested his money to buy a tractor, to build a farm, to buy a combination or some other agricultural machine, then he could speculate with it, if he's going to get more capital support, but he has to get support if he goes to the bank, put up for all that expensive credit, then we pay him back. So is that normal? It's not for me, on the other hand, it doesn't pass the day of the debate that we're not talking about credit claims. Well, we're actually pushing them, so you have to borrow whatever cash you have to pay to get us back through capital support. And that's what today, now and this bill of law solves itself. And I believe that precisely because of this, but everything that is already and through a positive debate, we will uphold this law. And just final. This is an example of one of the laws to behave in predicting which direction and how to set things up, because its adoption can be immediately and applied, as funds are provided for in the Ministry for this, and the budget provides for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13071	Thank you. Replications. Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13072	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In fact, the vice president spoke of whether or not he set the thesis on whether food, whether energy, or how to align it. Just when I spoke on behalf of the National Minorities Club, I stressed that we must set our goals well, because I believe that Croatia has agricultural opportunities, i.e. the potential for land to produce on one side and enough food, even for export, and on the other hand to produce enough raw materials again as food for the production of bioenergys, and then including by-products of these bioenergys. In fact, only if we take it, and I'm not going to rely here on what you've pollemized how much food will come from small economies and whether or not you're social, I always consider not social, but pension that, but just by intensifying agricultural production, to produce only a ton more wheat per 200 thousand hectares, to reach 400 hectares of corn production only, to achieve only the production we've had, we can automatically make 400 thousand volumes, just means an increase per hectare per tonne, to produce exactly as much raw materials for the production of bioenergy in transport as the European Union prescribes. Which means well set goals, base production on really professional, agro-technology measures, we can achieve such productions as I say ensure and export food with satisfactory production of bio-energys on our surfaces, without talking about potentials, because we are talking about a million 200 thousand hectares that are now agricultural surfaces and i.e. hurricanes and gardens. We have 900 thousand hectares of swamps, or that land that is not exploited and which are very fast for certain investors, so I'm just thinking of setting goals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13073	Replica reply, Vice-President Josip Friscic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13074	So I think when it comes to accessing the use of surfaces that we agree in principle, but I'm also convinced that we're going to have to take a good deal of action in establishing relationships, how to manage land and for what purposes, because more will happen when the Land Act comes, I'm telling us that if we let those who created today's ethanol production factories across Europe, and we allow them to buy land in Croatia, there can be said that the end of our country is hungry. Remember what I'm talking about here we're going to have to talk about, and when it comes to offerings, then believe me this is good, because we're talking about incentives per hectare today, because we've often had a situation to talk about, the farmer has 40 metric cents per hectare of wheat, and someone else 60 or 70, because the state is in different ways. Because it is not that it was not encouraged 30 years ago, I am told by people from Europe, sometimes in Croatia about a million euros have been allocated to different forms of encouragement. And when you come to that, you're going to create the conditions of your agriculture's competitiveness and we didn't calculate it, that's what the others calculated. But then it was driven by quantity. And she turned out to be a lot of people, and then they sold it to the state, so it was a state reserve, only when we came into the inventory, then it was seen that it was a lot of mice, so they ate it. But no one ever returned what they got. Therefore, we in agricultural production have competitive production. Because as mayor before I came to this house while others are no longer in cows, not in milk I opened 92 farms and I can tell you all these are farms that have 50 cows, which have an E class of milk and all these are the family economies that today say that their production is profitable, that they have entered the right programme and that satisfy these balance sheets.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13075	The second replica, Vice-President of the House, Mrs. Zeljka Antunovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13076	Well, listening to my colleague Fristic's debate, I'm getting a little bit of a dilemma that I'm having from the beginning. Are we talking about economic measures, is this law, the law that falls under the laws that need to improve the situation and increase economic growth through the agricultural production sector, that is, for me, agriculture is an important economic branch for me. Or it's a law that shouldn't have been proposed by the Ministry of Agriculture, but it's someone else's ministry because it belongs to another, social sphere like you said. I agree with my colleague that manufacturers who are late years should not be classified in the social category but cannot be classified and cannot be placed for many reasons in the area of economic support. Not only the issue of older households, but the way in which it is driven, the economic measure encourages the production of milk, and when I have an economy of a cow, of a milk cow, then it is not possible to talk about an economic scale. And I agree again that open-air farms can be competitive but this way with this law we do not encourage farm creation, but rather encourage something else. Something that is not a farm, something that is uncompetitive and something that neither farmers nor farmers will contribute to economic growth. And I'm going to say again, unfortunately, what I have to say is that it's still a matter of pure politics, political demagogy and delaying problem solving, it's not going to be a good thing. It won't be even, but we'll still have this fragmented and tiny economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13077	Replica reply, Vice-President Mr. Representative Josip Friscic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13078	Dear MPs, it has already been said here today, we often find that many read or do not read things about how it is elsewhere, and then pass it on here and want us to put it as something that is ultimate for us that we have to act accordingly. Here it was said, our property is over 3 hectares, I think we're n and 4.6 acres, that Italy works at 7. When we started with support and incentives measures, we had an average of four cows per household. The average of Italy, northern Italy, Slovenia and Austria is 12, our average today is 9, so we moved from 4 to 9. This is the kind of measure we've encouraged ourselves to do. But if, at one point, we're going to go detimulatively and tell someone who doesn't have 20 cows has 5, then at 5 he gets nothing, he'll never come to 20. Because it needs to be given these five incentives, stimulate the cow system, the calf, 1500 per cow, because it produces milk, no matter what they hand over 6 thousand liters. Then these are the measures that come out of this. And finally, when we look at it, this Europe, which it encourages and how then one third of their incentives are actually support because they are up to a volume of 10,000 euros, which I think is exactly the household that has production for self-sufficiency, but for the state balance is extremely important and important. Because for us, too, it will be important, and I expect from 40 to 50 thousand households through this amendment and the addition of the law to us will enter the system of records.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13079	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Nadica Jelash. There was one mistake. There's a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13080	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, Your Honor, For this legal proposal, I will paintly say that it has "downgraded to the ground", and finally respected Croatia's reality in the area of agriculture in such a way that it has reduced minimally stimulating quantities on the one hand and significantly expanded the circle of state aid users on the other hand, and that is primarily the user with smaller agricultural resources, and that is, we all know very well in Croatia absolutely the most. It is good that for another year in this legislative proposal, i.e. until 1 January 2010, the period for family holdings to be entered in the register of taxpayers of income tax at the tax administration, which is the assumption that state incentives could be used at all. Namely, it is always good to give enough time, to get into the system, therefore, under control as many users as possible. It is also good that the future ministry will provide support for those investments that farmers will make with their own resources, therefore, savings rather than just bank loans, as has been the case so far. However, attention should also be drawn to some things that we do not think are good. Therefore, it is not good that it is proposed to reduce the deadlines from two to one year to regain the right to State support to those users who have abused them, or have not used them in a legitimate manner, and they had to return them back to the State on the basis of agricultural inspectors' solutions. This reduction in the period within which such users do not have the right to use State aid is explained by the practice of the European Union. Let us be honest and admit that I am normative in compliance with European practice will not effectively improve Croatian practice. And we know that Croatian practice, and not only is it in agriculture at large with the European, is still too often resorting to state fraud in Croatia. That we are simply not mature in European practice. So it would be good if this kind of discount under quotes in repressivity, therefore, to leave it at a time when conditions on the ground will confirm that we have truly earned it. There's one more thing I don't think is right. Not good or better to say is not the best solution to introducing state support for non-commercial agricultural holdings older than 65 years who do not make any income. It is not good through economic activity what unequivocal agriculture is to address social issues and it is not good to solve the social situation in a partial way. So I'm going to say that the SDP has proposed a better solution. Remember, we had a special law on this, and it was a more comprehensive solution and it was the introduction of a social pension institute for all Croatian citizens over 66 years of age and not just those related to agriculture. And finally, I would like to say that all these proposed legislative solutions will, therefore, gain all these measures in significance in one broader context and the core of this context is the rounding of agricultural land and its irrigation. I'll tell you an interesting data actually very intriguing data as an illustration of the great fragmentation of agricultural properties in Međimurje County where I come from and where in fact double the population is declared as a agricultural population compared to the average of Croatia. So in Međimurje 8% of the total Agricultural Areas Fund is on the border. So for larger production, larger exports necessarily require far greater resources, budgets to be channelled for land mining projects and irrigation of agricultural land. And just in conclusion, as Međimurka, I support the amendment of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development to introduce an incentive for potatoes intended for industrial production. I think the Međimurians, as respectable potato producers, would be extremely pleased with the adoption of the amendment, both in quantity and in quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13081	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by Mrs. Zastava Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13082	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here I would correct the inaccuracies of a colleague who said in her debate that it was not good for the state to go hand in hand to farmers, which shortens two years of rights to incentives and shortens for a year. My colleagues, that's not true. Look on the ground is a completely different situation. You obviously don't know her well, so you say she's not well. It's all good. And that's right. Everything that goes on hand to farmers. And all these measures that are today that we're discussing are absolutely going to the farmers' hands. You're also saying that agriculture is in the situation it's in. Of course, if we go to stricter conditions and to stricter measures, then it will certainly get worse. From field experience and from where I came from, farmers were just waiting for this measure to be shortened for a year for incentives. Thank you very much. And the municipalities where you're in power and farm offices haven't trained farmers enough. Thank you. [[- Okay. - Okay.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13083	SDP club. Five-minute debate of Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13084	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here's to starting with what I said on behalf of the club at the beginning of the debate. We will despite changes being small, which changes will not bring about the effects that should be expected in economic terms from support in agriculture, fisheries and forestry to support this bill proposal because at the present time high price increases of reproductive material, the price of energy that actually does not know what level it will stand at and the price of services really needs to be done. However, as announced in the very reasoning of this law before us, there is actually a time in which we will need not only to harmonise legislation relating to agriculture with European Union legislation but we will have to start and apply it in practice. That's why, as I warned, it's not good for us to delay some things and not prepare people for the paper in the meantime. So the postponement until 2010 for enrolment in the register of taxpayers, farmers of taxpayers of income tax will not actually receive a measure if in these two years we do not do so to educate them, to prepare them to keep books of business, to maybe provide them with free software, to enable them to use certain agencies that would first run business books instead. Another thing about incentive itself is that we are about to actually have a huge change in the incentive system of a huge number of products that are in the incentive system today, and we will have to start in a transitional period, to move towards an economy. So look as the European Union does and whether the agricultural economy is driven in such a way that it is exemplary, that it respects certain regulations as I have said environmental protection, animal welfare and other regulations. It is a very short period so far when we, in fact, will have to direct people in that direction, and that is when we will have to train the agricultural economies to, who will deal with agriculture and live well from it. On the other hand, this social component should be separated. It is necessary to ensure that people with small possessions who are not in the age that they can, that they have perspectives to work in agriculture, ensure decent income through the so-called so-called so-called “. ” Social or national pension. We also believe that it is necessary to make better use of the support related to current production, or that it must be in a function of increasing production and changing the structure of production in order to reduce the deficit in agricultural production, in external trade, in order to perhaps become an exporter rather than an importer of food. And the last thing I think needs to be done during this period is through negotiations with the European Union to do maximum to give us space and time to prepare for a strong competition and on our domestic market rather than just on the external market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13085	Thank you. The final review of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development Minister Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13086	Thank you very much, Vice-President, honourable MPs and MPs, allow me to thank everyone at the end of this debate for supporting this bill's proposal and to accept, at the beginning, the amendment of the Committee on Agriculture and Fisheries and Rural Development. I hope it will cheer up the distinguished representative from Međimurje who mentioned it, and I believe all those others because it's a potato. Of course we are aware of this and that we accept this amendment and also accept the amendment of the Committee on Legislatives. Maybe two, three sentences of review at the end of the debate. I think we're of course aware. These are the changes that were necessary, changes that correct a certain situation in the existing law. But here, it's been hinted and I repeat. The new Support Act must be done by the end of the year, and it will be agreed with many who have pointed out the difficult law. Because, you know, apart from the Agriculture Act as a roof law, the Agricultural Support Act is an operational law for implementation in that part of the full reform of agriculture and fully aware of what is ahead of us, which we must unfortunately do in a short period of time, which are all adjustments. It will be difficult, but I believe that if we are all going to work together on this and this is my call to work together, given that there are problems that are in agriculture, but we also need to make adjustments because of ourselves, but also because of the legislation of the European Union and the legislation that is there. It's gonna take a lot of work in that part. Maybe just two accentes from this part of the law that mattered to me, and they were running through the whole debate here. I think that these measures we define and that we've implemented I'm not going to talk about these short-terms that have been implemented in this part of the intervention that are to some of the improvements that we've introduced in certain segments. I will mention the features of this section when we talk about capital support and here in this change regarding own funds. If we look at the long-term I think we're all aware and I think we all clearly agree without investment, without new technology in agriculture there's no progress and that's what the principle is and in this law where we want to and let with these changes that the own funds that are invested can also get capital support we have to help in this part with complex investments with 50%, and in simple investments with a 40% return. I think that's the general goal, I think here we already have clear indicators on the ground. Where new farms are made, the latest technology results are remarkable and I will tell you better than they are currently achieved in the European Union. Therefore, it is certainly possible, but we must be aware that there is a large part of the funds to be invested. What we can't forget right now, what everyone points out is important to us every kilo of food, it's important to us every throat of cattle. Because I think what's going on around us, what's happening in the world, is telling us that we have to use all the resources and we're certainly opening up that possibility here, so I would say and set things up in a fair way. As for those who are in the country and who live in the country, I think they deserve our full care, and here we are correcting a great injustice that has been done. Unfortunately, so far, it has not been recorded in any way. So, one large part of the agricultural producers over 65 who have no income at all had no opportunity to get anything from the state. This way of increasing from 5,000 to 10,000 we open up the possibility of them getting some support and we think it's right. We need to be aware, the two measures will be maximumly developed in the part of income support, in the part of direct payments that we will have to reduce according to the European Union policy and we will have to transform them to support the economy, and part of rural development measures that will maximise. And that's where the future agricultural policy will go with a constant share of capital support, with a constant share of investment. I have to say that I am pleased, and that is, in my opinion, the best indication that things change in terms of agriculture and the agriculture sector. It's that financial institutions, banks today look differently at this sector. I'll tell you openly long we've been on this almost bank were uninterested in agriculture. It was almost the last thing they were willing to give them in a certain way. It's been invested everywhere else. Today this situation is also changing with this capital support given by the state, which the ministry can make a good step towards future production and I believe that what we all want – an increase in the production of sufficientness for which Croatia certainly has a chance and I believe that there will be time for us to talk about how to use our potentials, but we will really use them and put them in full function. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13087	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13088	We inform that the 16th session of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Assembly will be held on 9 July at 13:30 p.m. on 9 July at 17.00 p.m. in the hall of Ante Starcevic 149. The meeting of the Committee on Science of President Selem will also continue after the end of this session. Let's move on. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on State support in agriculture, fisheries and forestry, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 110. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. Representatives of the motions in the debate accepted amendments to the parliamentary committees. I therefore vote on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on State support in agriculture, fisheries and forestry. Please, let's get on with it. Let's vote. The result? The bill was passed by a majority vote with 106 votes in favour and 4 abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13089	We will still discuss one item of the agenda today because we would work until 14:00 hours, and that is - The final draft law on amendments to the Insurance Act, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 109 The legislator is the Government. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, European Integration, Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the SDP Representatives' Club and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Government's amendments become in accordance with Article 169. The Rules of Procedure shall be an integral part of the final draft law and shall not be voted on. Proposer representative, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance Zdravko Maric will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13090	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here is the table on the table, so the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Insurance Act for which the Government that referred it to the Parliament considers it more fully regulates the establishment of a business, but also the termination of the work of entities on the insurance market. Under this we mean insurance companies, reinsurance companies, insurance and reinsurance mediation companies, i.e. insurance companies, in a way that enables more efficient and transparent operations in line with the legal property of the European Union, which will create, among other things, key preconditions for the integration of the insurance market into the single market of the Member States of the European Union. What I would say introducely, therefore, which were basic and which are the main reasons for proposing amendments and additions to the Insurance Act. The first is to comply with the European Parliament and Council directives of 16 November 2005 on resecuritisation, which are being amended until then by the current and existing directives, and I must note that the existing law on insurance and was adopted by the Parliament in 2005, however, these amendments and additions to the European Directives happened afterwards. Also another important reason or reason for amending this law is that the changes put in place are related to the bankruptcy and liquidation of the insurance company with a view to transposing also the relevant Directives of the European and the harmonisation of the prescribed norms with the provisions of the bankruptcy law. Let me also point out that these provisions of the European directives should be regulated by a special law on bankruptcy and liquidation, however, insurance companies of course, but in the meantime have given up on this, so that this existing Insurance Act, namely its amendments and additions, will have a complete picture of bankruptcy and liquidation. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to present to you briefly the amendments to the Insurance Act, which are the key papers and changes in relation to the existing ones. First of all, I would say one more chronological order as it goes in the law, which is the freedom to provide insurance services, so the freedom to provide insurance services, the ability and the way in which insurance operations are carried out, insurance companies based in the Republic of Croatia, in the Member States of the European Union, but of course the principle of reciprocity applies. The legal norms governing this area will have a delayed application and will begin to apply on the day of full membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union. Therefore, since we propose further liberalisation of this market to these amendments and additions, it was certainly important and necessary for our regulatory authority, namely to the supervisory authority, which is to give HANFAs and to prescribe additional powers, so that, following these amendments, HANFA will receive additional powers in such a way that it can implement the additional measures necessary when there is a qualified share of insurance companies in another insurance company or other financial institution, whether based outside the territory of the Republic of Croatia or of course with us. Also, according to these amendments and additions, the HANFA will actually have a more detailed control procedure in such a way that HANFA gets more powers, but that these powers and more detailed control procedures will in no case affect the operations of surveillance entities, as this would certainly be highly counterproductive. What I would like to say is certainly protection, i.e. strengthening consumer protection, as an obligation is introduced to inform insurance contractors which would, during the duration of the conclusion of the insurance contract, as well as the necessary content of the information to enable insurance and insurance contractors to be protected. Finally, what I said at the outset, therefore related changes and changes, are complemented by the way and the liquidation and bankruptcy of insurance and reinsurance companies, but what I would finally say is that these changes and additions are more detailedly regulated by mediation and representation. These rules and the way in which insurance intervention and representation operations are carried out are in line with the rules and standards of European legislation, i.e. European Union directives. As regards the validity of these amendments and additions, it has been said in the draft law since 1.1.2009, however, what is to be said, so the period of harmonisation for the calculation of the insolvency of insurance companies and resecuritisation companies was reduced on 1 January 2010, with full application of Articles 98 and 99 of the Law. However, by 31.12.2010, insurance and reinsurance brokerage companies, i.e. companies for representation in the insurance of the contracted amount of liability. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13091	Thank you. Legislative and European Integration Committees, Finance and the State Budget? I'm opening a debate. The HDZ representative club, Mr. Representative Kreso Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13092	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, there is another one in a series of legislative proposals that, this time, national legislation in the field of financial services, i.e. insurance and reinsurance, is in line with the acquis of the European Union. We from the Croatian Democratic Community club feel it is necessary to stress that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, we here in the Croatian Parliament and the whole of Croatia on the process of our legislation and the adaptation of our legislation with the acquis of the European Union, so the adoption of the standard of developed, modern and polite Europe really drives at the fifth speed, if not at the sixth speed. Of course, I'll tell you why we're saying it and why we think it is. I want this information to be truly understood as a fact without any attempts to enter political connotations or assessments because we from the Croatian Democratic Community are aware that certain periods of political action of the young and democratic Croatian state have been marked by other priorities and that the processes across the European Union have taken place in different circumstances, i.e. at their initial stage. However, we are also aware that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has achieved envious results during the past term, but also the current mandate on the external-political plan, so we want to believe that we can agree with this finding together and express our satisfaction with what has been done. In its term of office from 2000 to 2003, the Croatian Parliament adopted a total of 67 legislative proposals that were in line with the acquis of the European Union. A total of 160 in the term of office from 2004 to 2007, and in the first 6 months of this term, more than 80 legislative proposals will be adopted with which our legislation is aligned with the legal acquis of the European Union. So, on 15 July, when this session of the Parliament is planned to be completed, the state administration, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament will do more than 2/3 of their planned work on harmonising legislation with the acquis of the European Union, thus achieving assumptions for achieving the objective, and you know that the objective was to adopt 120 laws that would be brought into line with the legal acquis of the European Union, and we also remember that there were those who qualified this goal as preamble and unreservable. All the above talks about how the Republic of Croatia is most easily driven at an appropriate speed towards the European Union and that by the end of 2009, led by the Government of the Republic of Croatia will be led to the ultimate destination, i.e. to meet the full criteria for full membership in the European Union. Unfortunately, some are constantly trying to defuse the government's work on this plan and talk about how Croatians are spreading Euroscepticism and even in the government itself. That it is not so best said the results of the survey published in Sunday's Evening List seem to me, which says 58% of Croatian citizens still support Croatia's entry into the European Union today. As a euro optimist and in order to preserve the speed of adaptation, the Croatian Democratic Community's MPs' club will fully support the proposed law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act, but also because this bill is more quality, more precise and complete than the applicable law regulates the establishment, business and termination of the work of insurance entities and supervision of their operations. The adoption of the proposed amendments and additions enables more efficient and transparent business of all insurance entities and to meet the preconditions for the integration of the national insurance market into the single market of European Union countries. Insurance represents one specific activity and in the world there is a relatively small number of insurance companies, if we observe them and compete with the number of other economic operators using their services alongside citizens. So in the Republic of Croatia we have 23 insurance companies and two resecuritisation companies, while the users of their services, so legal persons, craftsmen and farmers have over 350 thousand, much more to come by the logic of world circumstances. However, it should be pointed out that insurance has become an integral part of human life without which it cannot be done, where man and his assets are mainly at the present time of high technological development and intensive economic and life activities increasingly exposed to numerous risks or risks. The provision of assets and persons can be defined as an activity based on solidarity and reciprocity, in order to provide economic protection against certain hazards or risks that endanger property and persons, and the activity which generates profits. Unlike other similar activities such as health and pension insurance, the insurance of assets and persons operates without direct State influence, i.e. legal obligation. Therefore, it is not intended for automation but for rights and obligations to be created with the consent of the will expressed through a contractual relationship, and therefore, the very Law on Insurance and Prominent Principles of Voluntaryness of that freedom of choice. The activity of insurance as part of the overall financial system plays a significant role in the economic development of the Republic of Croatia and its share in the gross domestic product from year to year is increasing. Despite what I said earlier, the share of gross premiums of 3.3% in gross domestic product cannot be satisfied since it is far below the European Union average. However, this fact leaves room for further development in this activity. It is important to mention that within the financial sector the activity of insurance is currently in third place with 23.3 billion kuna and that 57.55% of the core capital of these companies is owned by domestic natural and legal persons, which is the exception within this sector. It is also important to mention the observed trend in the growth of gross premiums over the last few years, which has averaged slightly above 10%, while the total gross premium charged for 2007 was 9 billion kuna, which is more than charged for over 20% for 2005. In particular, we should be looking forward to a faster rate of insurance growth compared to an average growth rate of 18.5% on average and to the share of the insurance premium in the total charged premium that has increased to 27.4%, because these are indicators that determine the level of development of the insurance market. According to the applicable law, but also according to the proposed amendments and additions to the laws, insurance companies are insurance undertakings, reinsurance companies that take over part of the risk by insurance undertakings, intermediators in insurance or natural and legal persons performing representation and insurance activities. An important legal framework for the insurance system in the Republic of Croatia, made up of the Insurance Act, the Transport Mandatory Insurance Act, the Law on the Croatian Financial Services Control Agency and its implementing acts, was established at the end of 2005 when the previous Insurance Act and the Insurance Intermediation and Representative Act ceased to apply. It should be pointed out that the establishment of a legal framework for insurance in the Republic of Croatia in 2005 meant a definitive break-up with the remains of socialism that could still be found in the 1994 Insurance Act and its later novels. On the other hand, the statement of the political will of our state summit to apply from the field of insurance, and in preparation for full membership in the European Union, in line with those in the European Union, noting that our legal system in the field of insurance then implemented more than 20 applicable European rules. Thus, by adopting the two prior system rules in the field of insurance, one of which is an organisational status, and the other which regulates the specific matter of the insurance undertaking in transport, significant effects have been achieved, of which only some are mentioned. The matter of compulsory transport insurance and the Insurance Act is singled out in a special law, which is also practice in the European Union countries. The entire market principle of insurance business was introduced, i.e. the state control was removed from the conditions and the insurance price list. The efficiency of supervision of state authorities has increased, expertise has become the basis for carrying out insurance operations. Special attention has already been paid to the protection of consumers of insurance services and an obligation to institutionalise internal audit and control in all insurance companies has been introduced. Given the fact that the legal rules of one living substance are subject to the changes that are taking place to improve the existing legislative framework and its adaptation to the new socio-political and economic circumstances, and that change is not only happening with us but also in our environment, so also in the European Union to which we seek. They need to be constantly monitored, and more standards adopted are accepted and implemented in our legal system. Therefore, the basic reasons for the proposed amendments and additions are found in the need to bring our legislation into line with European legislation and, in the meantime, new insurance directives adopted. Then, in the need of harmonisation of the Insurance Act with the latest novels of the Law on Commercial Companies and the Banking Law and in the commitments made under the national programme. In particular, we would like to stress that, for every commendation, the fact that these amendments and additions have been taken into account the observations and proposals or recommendations of professional associations or associations of insurance companies of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, as well as the Croatian Actuarial Society, which did not apply the applicable law in practice until then. Finally, just a few more sentences about the most important thing the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Insurance Act brings us. So let's take the turn. I'm going to cut this part short because the secretary of state spoke extensively about it. So let's take the turn. Additional powers shall be conferred on the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency as a supervisory authority. The freedom to provide insurance and reinsurance services is arranged, as the State Secretary said, on the principle of reciprocity. A stronger protection of consumers or insurance contractors is introduced, a more detailed monitoring process is developed, and a more detailed process and method of winding up and bankruptcy, detailed rules and ways of carrying out insurance intervention and representation activities are laid down, and at the end of the deadline for compliance with this law is a year, i.e. 01. Ten. In 2010, there is no longer the possibility of the supervisory authority prolonging means compliance with the law for an additional 2 years. And lastly, I express my confidence that we are indeed at 6 speeds, when it comes to the process of adapting national legislation with the acquis of the European Union, and that this law, or its amendments and additions, will contribute to the transparency and effectiveness of the business in the field of insurance, but also because its adoption will make us at least a step closer to full membership of the European Union, the Croatian Democratic Community's club will also, without reserve support of the law on amendments and additions to the Insurance Act, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has delivered to us since 12 June. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13093	Thank you. HNS representative club, Mr. Representative Zeljko Vincelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13094	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. When the laws on insurance and compulsory transport insurance were adopted in 2005, the professional public commented that the adoption of these rules in the area of insurance showed everything that is wrong with our legal system. In fact, both laws were adopted by an emergency procedure without serious expert debate, and any unorganised objections that came from the profession were not read more seriously, let alone taken into account. Everything was justified by the obligation to bring our insurance system into line with the European Union as soon as possible. And look at the wonders of this emergency European law of 2005 with its 306 articles, which were assured that it was fully in line with European Union regulations, after two and a half years again for reasons of compliance with European legislation, we are now changing it into over 50% of the legal articles, namely 158. And the paper on the motions for change haven't dried up yet, and the government has sent us another 10 additional pages of change. Really, no comment. The extent of changes, i.e. changes and additions, is such that it is justified for the Croatian Chamber of Commerce to adopt a new Insurance Act in the ordinary procedure. In view of the fact that it was a basic act of insurance activity, it was justified to expect that the 2005 error would be corrected and that insurance operators would be involved in making the proposed changes. But not only are they not allowed to do so, but the profession is also excluded from the discussion and from making proposals to amend and supplement the law or more specifically to the insurance companies and their associations is given a 24-hour deadline for making observations, when the ministry's proposal has already been completed. Therefore, without the possibility of professional discussion, the exchange of arguments, the compatibility of solutions with those in the Member States of the European Union, the coordination of views, the possibility of an analysis, studies on the impact of changes on the insurance activity. As a result, several unconnected remarks by the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and individual insurance companies were made to prefer the form, as it was clearly said that the government's proposal will not change anything due to the necessary fifth speed of document making. There is no telling what effect the proposed changes will have. The illustrations work, at the Austrian Association of Insurance Organisation, were in the work of co-operation between the authorities and the profession, only when the profession gave its opinion with a number of consequences and changes and impact on the business of the insurance industry were put into motion for change. Another example, Germany passed a new Insurance Contract Act in 2007 entered into force on 01.01.2008, which amended the 1908 law. So, the law that was worth 100 years. But the point is that the new law was made by top experts with Max Plankt Institute for six years. Such a law can probably last for the next 100 years. We see how it's done. Would the insurance company's participation in the making of the change reduce the authority of the ministry? To the contrary, these changes would be in line with the European Union rules and adopted by the profession, which would facilitate their implementation in everyday work. If the profession had taken part in the preparation of the amendment proposal, it would surely have insisted on correcting their serious objection to the existing 2005 law on the regulation of insurance obligations to invest the reserves in certain forms of investment, Article 123, etc. So that means. in State securities, which is contrary to the provisions of the European Directive No. 2002/83 that just forbids it. says: "Member States do not ask the insurance company to invest in certain types of investment." If the profession had taken part in the preparation of the amendment proposal, it would surely have insisted that the current problem, the beginning and the permanent reason for the non-market operation, the technical inspection and conclusion of the insurance agreement, Article 251, should be resolved in accordance with EU regulations, as market discrimination on the insurance market remains possible. If the profession had taken part in the preparation of the amendment proposal, it would surely have insisted that, in accordance with EU regulations, the problem of consumer protection of insurance services to which, in the law of Article 89, it gives the right to have written notice from the insurance company in all the essential elements related to the specific insurance that it intends to contract. Our article of the law does not contain provisions on what kind of written notice it is, who will prove that the insurance undertaking has fulfilled that obligation before the conclusion of the insurance contract, which means it will prove it, what are the sanctions of non-execution and insurance obligations, etc. The European Directive 87/344 explains all this, which is why they in Europe and do not have so many painful court disputes between insurance and insurance companies. If the profession had taken part in making a proposal for change, it would surely have insisted that the education of insurance personnel, which is very important for the functioning of activities and for the benefit of consumers, be regulated by the basis of European solutions. The law, by granting licences to intermediaries, representatives of management members, gives HANFs the authority of the national authority the basis of the examinations before HANF. The European solution is education and the examination is carried out within the profession. The Croatian Insurance Office, therefore the craftsman's principle of passing a professional exam in the Czech organisation. On the basis of this certificate, the state body of the HANF may issue a licence. This gives the impression that by retaining that competence and prescribing the application of the State examinations, it provides an extraordinary income to its agency. If the profession had adequately communicated with the ministry, it would have asked the state to create an additional incentive by amending tax rules to further develop the market for life insurance in such a way as to free employers from paying their employees' income tax. In fact, we all know that the existing pension system cannot provide citizens with pensions for decent age. The state should hand in hand to entrepreneurs who are willing to further assist their employees in ensuring a more peaceful age. The profession would also seek the treatment of voluntary health insurance premiums for employees as a tax recognition to employers. The profession unfortunately did not participate in the draft insurance law, so it does not deal with these and other important practical issues and problems in the area of insurance but only solves the issue of freedom, provision of services, insurance in the field of the European Union, of course full membership of the Republic of Croatia. The process of supervision of insurance companies, establishment, business and termination of the work of the insurance company, reinsurance companies, intermediation companies, or insurance representation companies, etc. is being developed. In addition to this strong criticism of the promoter for ignoring the profession and relevant problems of the existing Insurance Act, we are taking advantage of the opportunity to talk about some other problems related to insurance activity. Last year, Croatian citizens had 7.4 million locked shelves, on which they spent about 9 billion kuna. Of which, in non-life insurance of 6.3 billion, worth 6.58 billion kuna, and in life's 1.2 million shelves, a policy worth 2.47 billion kuna. Compared to 2000, the number of shelves is almost doubled and the expansion of life insurance is interesting and the number of shelves has increased by 3 times. In the category of non-life insurance... has car insurance, so the most important compulsory car insurance is 30%, the vehicle's helmet insurance is about 12%, the property insurance is around 14%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is of course the logical consequence of the fact that around 2 million vehicles are registered in Croatia, of which about 1.5 million are personal. Every adult in our country has an average of two policies, and the insurance business currently has 23 insurance companies with Croatian ownership of about 59% of the insurance market. The largest share in the total premium insurance, Croatia insurance with 40% followed by... Agram by 19, Alliance by 11. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So these three insurance companies cover 70 per cent of total insurance premiums in Croatia. The share of this activity in the gross domestic product is more than 3%. Insurance activity is supervised by the Croatian Financial Market Supervisory Agency... where a conservative market surveillance model is still present. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here we also see the first major problem of insurance activities and the liberalisation of the insurance market. In particular, the Insurance Act and the Transport Mandatory Insurance Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2006, left the basis but the obligation to introduce a liberalisation of the price of compulsory insurance in transport. The insurance companies had two years to prepare for one of the biggest challenges in their business and the start of this year was to bring liberalisation i.e. the freedom to form conditions and price premiums in compulsory transport insurance. All insurance companies are in principle unique in the assessment that liberalisation will lead to significant changes in the mandatory transport insurance system and that these changes must not be reduced to a competitive battle through the reduction of premium prices but primarily to the differentiation in the offer and approach of insurance undertakings. However, although they had two years to adapt and although they declared themselves unique, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have not yet welcomed the implementation of the law passed by the Parliament. Someone's gonna say, so maybe the insurance guys aren't interested in starting this process. That's not true, because we have information that the two insurance companies were immediately at the beginning of the year... submitted a request for liberalisation that is also evident in the reduction of car insurance prices from $20 to $30, but the approval of the state agency has not yet arrived. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We ask the question why, when obviously insurance companies have room for a more liberal approach and a reduction in car premium prices for citizens based on selective criteria. Type arguments will arise in Russia, a low-priced war on the market, evidence of negative experiences, Austria, Germany or Greece, cannot be an excuse for not implementing the law because we have different examples, for example, of Slovenia being liberalised without any earthquake. It is terrible that not implementing the law in terms of liberalisation of car premium prices is not directed by insurance companies but by our state agencies which should be set up to ensure law enforcement. We want to inform Croatian citizens that these two brave insurance houses have announced new car insurance policies that are additionally adapted to the sex and age of drivers, vehicle brands and the annual mileage of drivers. The general European position that the system must stimulate good drivers, at least risk drivers. In addition to the usual parameters of the type of car, engine power, age of cars, mileage and damage done by the driver in the previous year, many others have taken into account us, even the amazing circumstances and facts, housing sites, age, gender, occupation, marital status, age of children, number of vehicles in the family, and even the color of the vehicle and the horoscope sign of the driver. For example, women and older experienced drivers could have a 30 percent lower insurance price for their car and drivers who do a lot of policy damage should definitely collect. The next step of liberalisation should be to allow the citizen to collect his damage on the basis of responsibilities only with his insurance company. It would be a great help to clients but also a big step to increase trust among insurance companies where the long-term level of mutual communication and fair play was very low. It is a fact that at the end of 2006, all insurance companies involved in vehicle insurance signed an agreement respecting the basic premium system. So they signed an agreement that we should abide by the law. It's really great. I would ask the legislator to reply in his debate whether and as long as initiatives have been developed that all compensation requirements based on auto responsibility are resolved by the insurance undertaking with which the insurance undertaking has a contract for insurance of the vehicle. Another major problem of insurance activity is a huge number of judicial disputes in insurance, a problem that deserves the greatest attention and interest, coordination and the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance, insurance companies and the national insurance supervisory body, a consumer protection association with the aim of strengthening the confidence of citizens and entrepreneurs in the activities of the insurance sector and thus enabling it to develop even more strongly in the future. In order to reduce the number of court proceedings and restore confidence in insurance companies at the Croatian Insurance Office, a calming centre was established, so since I cannot further elaborate, I would ask the legislator how many disputed cases have occurred and what is the ratio of these cases to cases in court disputes? What percentage do they manage to get rid of peacefully? I don't have time for any further discussion, so I'm going to get to the bottom of this. The Croatian People's Party, as in the examples of some other current European laws, will support these amendments and additions to the Insurance Act, but we ask the Government to finally sit at a joint table with a profession and to create a new real European law with which they will be satisfied, as well as citizens and entrepreneurs seeking their protection in insurance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13095	Thank you. SDP representative club Mr. Representative Boris Šprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13096	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear government representatives, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I will be quite brief on this subject not because it ceases to transfer in half two but because I think it is necessary to say some of the things that concern first and then the results of the procedure. So this is an important matter for the economy of every country and Croatia. It is part of the financial system in a narrow sense and in a broader sense, I say is important for the economic development of the country. The profession that is really not represented in the concept and in the drafting of the bill is understood in all countries. I don't know why ours doesn't mean that it should be part of it because it didn't participate, or it was given the chance to participate in a way that it can't participate because when you give someone as we say it gave the Croatian Chamber of Commerce 3 days to gather its members and then express their views and suggestions, not only the principles of a law such as this one, and in this law it contains 306 articles 152 amendments, so now I'm asking you which, who is able to cope with it and to react within three days? No one. It would be better if the profession didn't actually involve itself in this way because it would give you the opportunity to answer fully for the regulation of such important legal matter and to bear responsibility for it. The SDP Club therefore supports the adoption of European laws but does not support the way in which particularly important ways are adopted by an emergency procedure in the stage of preparation and in the final phase of adoption in the Assembly. The legislator claims that certain remarks have been accepted, I do not know which of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and other other entities because I did not see them accepted. Maybe I didn't read it right. But I would like you to taxively state what applications are accepted by the profession or the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, but not to be of those 150, 3 applications that you accepted and to cover yourself that you accepted something. As regards the claim by the legislator that this law is in line with European Union directives. Maybe she's with someone, but she's not with someone. So I'm going to set a concrete example with which he's not? Thus, in Article 245(5) of the European Union Directive, the first of 2002, 83, says: "Member States will not require insurance companies to invest a certain type of property." And our Article 65 of the Law says this way: "Investments to cover mathematical reserves must not go beyond the limit of investment in securities. They must be at least 50% of the total assets for covering mathematical reserves." So the 65th is directly contrary to this directive that I have stated. And you've been warned by the profession, you've been warned by insurance companies but you haven't responded. Answer why there isn't. I'm just saying one example, there's more. And these examples that are still in place and we want them to be resolved in a way that the provisions of the law proposed in accordance with the European Union directives are indeed going to be shared through or through the amendments of the SDP Club, so I hope that you will seriously consider it. So if this is how the law will also be passed with such content, and related to the way, conditions will not be created for the integration of the Croatian insurance market into the single market of the European Union. And I hope that this fact that the provisions of the law are very important does not comply with the European Union directive will not cause, as in some other cases, you did not quite publish it when the European Commission returned it to you, and then you agreed. She gave you back the text of the law, and then you got along with... The European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, in the end, there are some other things, let's say, this explanation of the emergency procedure. Please read as follows: "It is proposed that the law be passed by emergency procedure, since this will be done by harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia in the area of... with the law, the legislation of the European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, it's not because of that, but it's one of the ways to say the final part of the procedure if the law is seriously prepared that can be adopted by an emergency procedure and that it's seriously prepared, and then it's harmonized with, and not by what it says when it comes to proposing this law. So in the end, we are in favour of harmonising this law with the acquis of the European Union, but we are not to make the law as unquality as it will be adopted if the amendments that we have prepared are not respected, but also the remarks that others have made, in particular, insurance companies and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. In the end, we propose that a regular procedure be adopted in lawmaking, not urgent. And it is proposed that, to accept the amendments that we have submitted, and we will see after and debates especially if the conclusion that the law is passed under an urgent procedure is not adopted, that the law is not adopted by an urgent procedure whether we will vote in favour of the law. We'll talk about it at the club. We'll talk about it at the club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13097	Thank you. That concludes the club debate. We have one, an individual discussion. It's Honorable Representative Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13098	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, colleagues from the government. Here's my honor to say a few sentences on Friday afternoon, so I'll stick to our good manners in Croatian so it won't be too long. So here's a few sentences. As we have seen from the debate so far, the activity of insurance as part of our overall financial system has certainly played a significant role in the economies of each country, as well as our own. Of course we have or still have an interesting way in developing insurance, especially according to its individual segments. It has already been said repeatedly that the insurance system covers insurance companies dealing with these jobs, insurance from conclusion to execution, reinsurance companies, and themselves... in insurance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] According to the already established practice, the reason for this adoption of amendments and the addition of the law is the harmonisation of Croatian legislation from that area to the acquis of the European Union. First of all, the issues covered by this law are related to the arrangements for the rules and ways of obtaining the share of the insurance company in another society if it is located in a country based outside the territory of the Republic of Croatia. They also regulate the rules and the way in which society shares are acquired for the purpose of controlling the ownership of shares, and in particular given the important economic effects related to the insolvency itself, and the stability of society. They also regulate the freedom to provide insurance and insurance services to the insurance company based in the Republic of Croatia in the Member States of the European Union, and it is also reciprocally valid. And certainly this is one of the preconditions for achieving the full membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union, noting that these legal norms will have a delayed start of application and will be valid on the day of full membership of the Republic of Croatia in the EU. Of course, the novelty and commitment and formation of insurance contractors is code and during the duration of the conclusion of the contract and the necessary content of the information in order to ensure the protection of the contractors, and a more detailed and elaborate surveillance procedure, i.e. supervisory tasks carried out by the supervisory authority. It is essential to determine in a new way and the procedure and method of liquidation and bankruptcy of companies, and to protect the contractors themselves, as well as to liquidate and bankrupt companies which are linked through insurance operations based on the freedom to provide services provided in the Member States of the European Union. The rules and methods of carrying out activities of mediation and representation are also detailed, and in accordance with the rules and standards of European legislation. The deadline for compliance with the provisions of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on life insurance is for 1 January 2010. The starting point of this law is to the twenty directives of the European Union which I am now not going to state here in person, but we will certainly say that this law has been adopted and the practice of the countries of the European Union. This proposed law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act is more fully regulated by how the establishment and termination of the operation of the insurance company, the reinsurance company and the brokerage company in a way that enables more efficient and transparent business, and in line with the legal property of the European Union. The implementation of this law will also require no special resources from the state budget, since the funding of the supervisory authority is also determined by the insurance, mediation and representation companies, and therefore the adoption of the laws by emergency procedure is proposed, and I will certainly give it support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13099	Thank you. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Yeah, finally. Dear Zdravko Maric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13100	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. First of all, I would like to thank you for these comments and discussions. There weren't many representatives, or clubs reported, but I think it was very content. I must also express a little regret that a good part of the debate went into the tone of not consulting the waist. I must say that the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not refer to any of its draft regulations, or the law here to the Parliament without consulting the profession. Of course, in some regulations, perhaps more or perhaps less. Relative relationships, however, can be said to let individuals conclude whether they were sufficiently represented or not. In the proposal for writing this law, i.e. supplementing and amending the supplementation of the Insurance Act, the Association of Insurance in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce also participated. However, I would just look back briefly. So we talked about these very short deadlines for a few days, or weeks for an opinion. However, it should be said that the existing Insurance Act has been in force since 2005 and practically since the beginning of 2006. From 2006 to today we received various and different comments and opinions of the profession and of course some of them were respected and adopted, some of which are not in line or in line with the bill. What I would also say, ladies and gentlemen, is the harmonisation with the EU directives, of course, is one of the very important things for us and for the esteemed representative of the Spremo, I can certainly tell him that we will take into account his comment, or that we will look at whether in any part as he said we are violating a certain provision of the directive. I personally don't think so. But here, just in case, I'll let you know that we're gonna do it. As far as the insurance market itself is concerned, we have heard the figures and heard certain data that in the insurance market unlike perhaps some other segments of the total financial market we have our companies, or our share of domestic companies in a significant, significant volume. Surely that fact should be taken into account, as some of the foreign insurance companies operate in other European Union countries as well. In some areas or parts, they certainly have certain information and numerical indicators and more than our domestic companies. However, we have also touched Austria’s example. Also, the facts say that Austria was also worth other rules at the time of its accession and in general compliance with EU directives, and under certain milder conditions it was actually in force for their insurance companies. We certainly know that certain provisions of the current European Union Directives and on life insurance and non-life insurance are still not fully implemented in some of the most economically developed countries of the European Union. And here's finally to say, in any case, and your comments and discussion, we'll take this into account, as well as these amendments you've sent us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13101	Thank you. I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. That's what we're done with today's session. The extension follows on 8 July at 9.30 p.m. with point 5 - Proposal for a concession law. Have a nice weekend! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13102	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 109, the debate is closed. The amendments submitted by the Government have become in accordance with Article 169. The Rules of Procedure form an integral part of the final draft law. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and the SDP Representatives' Club. After the debate was concluded, the government submitted a new amendment. In accordance with Article 166. The Rules of Procedure of this amendment must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present. Who agrees to hold a debate on the government's amendment? Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. The amendment debate was accepted by 113 votes for, 15 abstentions, 3 against. So there will be an amendment debate. I ask the motionary's representative to explain the government's amendment. Minister Ivan Shuker. The government's amendment, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13103	There are more amendments to the government, so I say... [[Speaks out loud, the speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13104	These others were accepted, and this other one came later. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13105	No, no, this one amendment was during the debate proposed and... Okay, I'm sorry, then.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13106	One amendment is explained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13107	No, there are more amendments to the Insurance Act, so that's why I'm confused.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13108	They were delivered during the debate, not debated. There's only one subsequent amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13109	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13110	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13111	Therefore, this amendment to Article 131 strongly suggests that insurance representation activities can be carried out by banks that have been authorised by the Croatian National Bank on the basis of prior consent and by the FINA and the Croatian Post Offices, since we believe that these two agencies that are not classical financial agencies can also get the opportunity to participate in the sale of insurance.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13112	Thank you. I'm opening a debate on this amendment to the government later. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favour of this amendment? Please raise your hands. Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. This amendment was accepted by 141 votes for and 1 abstention. I would ask the representative to show himself on the other amendments, and these are: the Committee on Legislatives has tabled an amendment to Article 4, first amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13113	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13114	This amendment becomes an integral part of the proposal. 2 to Article 20 of the Treaty on the
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13115	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13116	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Article 3... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13117	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13118	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 4 in Article 47.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13119	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13120	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 5, in accordance with Article 157 of the Treaty
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13121	This has already been accepted in Amendment 5 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. _______________________: In that sense, it retreats.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13122	If accepted, then this 5th amendment has been withdrawn. Thank you. 6 to Article 158.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13123	It is accepted that the words "this law" are replaced by the words "insurance laws" with the amendments and additions to those articles set out in this law. _______________________: The formulation is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13124	This formulation has been accepted on this amendment. The SDP Club submitted an amendment to Article 18. Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13125	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13126	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Article 34, second amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13127	The government does not accept for reasons why the deadlines will be determined by the adoption of sublegal acts. This is regulated by the article in 65d. And another word, erasing words is not acceptable because insurance sales should be treated equally.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13128	In the name of the club... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13129	This is an amendment to Article 34.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13130	Article 34 is replaced by the What? Article 34 is replaced by the What's...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13131	Therefore, the government does not accept because the deadlines will be regulated by the adoption of sublaws, this is regulated in Article 65(d), and erasure of words is not acceptable because insurance sales should be treated equally.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13132	On behalf of the club, Mr. Sprem.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13133	Mr President, therefore, the proposed amendment sets a deadline for the supervisory authority to grant approval for promotional activities and information on insurance companies and products offered on the market and prior to publication. It is also proposed to exclude personal visits from the content of promotional information, phone calls, since they are not promotional information, but common sales activities. So what Minister Shuker said does not entirely include the content of the amendments, otherwise we could agree with him to include what he said in part. But I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13134	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 3rd Amendment to Article 37
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13135	The government doesn't accept. Since the proposed addition of the text in paragraph 4 loses the meaning of the responsibility of the designated authorised actuaries of society, enables manipulation and pressure on the designated.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13136	Thank you. On behalf of the club, Mr. Representative Boris Sprem.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13137	So, by adding this text that we have put into the amendment, it would explain what irregularities the designated authorised actuary must report to the Management of the Insurance Society. Therefore, this relationship is not only about a relationship that partially covers the explanation of the representative and the proposer of Mr. Minister. I ask to vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13138	Thank you. Is that for this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 4. on Article 48 of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13139	The government doesn't accept. As the notion of the Contracting Parties also covers persons who draw the rights of the Insurance Contract, which is precisely defined by the Law on Mandatory Relations.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13140	Mr. Representative Šprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13141	Just the other way around. Disputes in the insurance contract may arise between the parties but may also arise between the parties in the insurance contract and those in the drawing up of their rights under the insurance contract, such as in the case of liability insurance. In order to define this relationship more fully, we ask that the amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13142	To vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13143	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13144	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Article 57 Amendment 5?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13145	It is not accepted, because companies are obliged to invest technical reserves and non-life insurance independently of the method of collection... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13146	Mr. Representative Boris Sprem.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13147	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, the explanation of our amendment is that the income of non-life insurance is a police premium, i.e. a charged premium for a whole year of insurance. Therefore, this premium and the base for the calculation of the reserve for transfer premiums, so that the value of the assets for the cover may not be at least equal to the amount of the requested cover, but only for the amount of the non-accessible premium. I'm saddening the vote, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13148	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 6th of Article 58?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13149	The government does not accept for reasons why it would lose the meaning of the provision if they accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13150	Mr. Representative Boris Sprem on behalf of the club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13151	It's just that Mr. Minister here loses the sense of law then, because the real estate needs to be bought first, i.e. to establish a real right, and only after that is it possible to enter property, or another real right into land books, rather than vice versa. I believe that the meaning of this provision you said would be lost from your point of view, but it is lost and then it makes sense, which is why I am bearing this amendment. So it doesn't make any sense, what you just said. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13152	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 7 to Article 63?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13153	The government does not accept, for the reason that the mathematical reserve accounts for all insurance of persons where the savings or assets are accumulated to cover the risk at later years of insurance with a multiannual duration to which the probability table applies, calculations as well as life insurance are accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13154	Thank you. On behalf of the club, Mr. Boris Sprem.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13155	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If this item leaves out the provision that it is a mathematical reserve of life insurance, that would mean that this provision applies to all insurance, so to those insurance companies that do not have a mathematical reserve. Please also vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13156	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 8th Amendment to Article 64?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13157	It is not accepted for the reason why this amendment would be accepted then the meaning of the provision would be lost.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13158	Thank you. Mr. Boris Sprem.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13159	I'm giving up the amendment on behalf of the club, because the amendment under point 6 of our proposal has not been accepted, not for this reason by the Minister for what you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13160	The extension as well as the amendment 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13161	So, I'm giving up the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13162	This amendment has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13163	Because it's connected to this before and before and it doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13164	Thank you. This amendment has been withdrawn. 9th Amendment to Article 65?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13165	It is not accepted because it is settled in the transitional and final provisions of the law in a way that the restrictions are aligned with the date of entry into the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13166	Thank you. Mr. Shream on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13167	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Minister. This is about such an amendment that we won't be able to vote for because you don't accept it and if it won't be voted for this law in a way that we accept it and for reasons which I warned you about in the first reading, that is, in the first and second readings it was connected otherwise we searched by the way and that, by the way, I'm sorry, that this law was passed in two readings, I don't know why it wasn't put to the vote before the amendments were decided. So, the European Union directive, not to quote now, speaks one thing, and the norm you put into this law speaks another. In fact, Member States will not require insurance companies to invest a certain type of property, the directive says, you have taken the opposite approach to solving the problem by postponing the problem until it enters the European Union. However, there is no particular reason to delay this, but to comply now with the European Union Directive. So please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13168	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 10th on Article 66?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13169	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13170	This amendment has been accepted, becoming an integral part of the proposal. 11th of Article 131?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13171	The government does not accept, because enabling and using the name or work of the Insurance Society, i.e. the Reinsurance Society, on behalf of the company of the representative company, that is, the intervention of potential users of services, can lead to confusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13172	Mr. Representative Šprem.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13173	Mr. President. So we don't think there's any reason that an exclusive agency can't contain a particular name in its name, even though it's not owned. That's why we're proposing this amendment. I suggest we vote on him.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13174	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. And the 12th on Article 149?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13175	It is not accepted because the proposed amount does not correspond to the responsibilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13176	Thank you. Mr. Sprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13177	Thank you very much. Therefore, the proposed amounts and penalties have been overly determined, taking into account the absence of the protected name of the authorised actuary in the cases of a statutory obligation to inform the administration and the supervisory authority as we previously had the opportunity to see. The amendment therefore proposes to reduce the amount of fines. I suggest we vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13178	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you, Minister. I am voting on the final draft of the law on amendments and additions, please, let's get involved. Let's vote. The result? The law was adopted by a majority of 89 votes in favour, 42 abstentions and 3 against, together with the amendment accepted. The Legislative Committee proposes to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion: "The Professional Service of the Croatian Parliament is authorised to edit the text of this law before its publication in "The National Journal". Please, let's get on with it. Let us vote on this proposal for a conclusion. Thank you. The result? This conclusion was accepted by 95 votes for, 14 abstentions and 1 against. The SDP representative club proposes to draw the next conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13180	Mr. President, you haven't heard anything here since the beginning. But it's not just today, it's usually the same. So give me the technical service, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-04-0.u13181	The SDP representative club proposes to draw the next conclusion. First, on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act, with a final proposal for a law. A debate was held in the first reading. Opinions, objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to take them into account when drawing up the final draft law. ... The Club of Representatives is not authorised to propose a debate in the first reading on the occasion of the adoption of a law that is in line with European Union regulations. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Therefore, we will not vote on this proposal. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Mr. Baldo Procurica is the vice president of the state of Chile with the delegation. Please welcome him. Thank you. [[Applause]]
