ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18784	Congratulations! We are going to discuss: - The question of trust to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Dr. sc. [[Applause]] Ivo Sanader Proposers: members of the SDP Representatives Club Members of the SDP Representatives Club raised a question of trust to the Prime Minister on the basis of Article 113. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The government was very clear about this proposal. You've received the government's testimony in the boxes. Would the proposing representatives like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Mr. Representative Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18785	Dear Vice President, I'm pleased to see you leading this session, the honourable MPs and MPs, the honourable members of the government, the Honorable Prime Minister. The voting instrument, the vote of confidence to the Prime Minister, is a constitutional category that we rarely used for the past 10 years. Last time in the 10th month of 2002, HDZ and its president, Dr. Ivo Sanader, they raised the issue of trust to then-Prime Minister Ivica Racan over paraphrasing the Agreement with Slovenia. By reading and studying these materials from the scarce practice and documentation of the Croatian Parliament, the scarce experience, I was surprised by the actual level and height of the debate, diplomatic tone and debate, not the abuse of the Institute of Wrong Allegation and in general one peaceful atmosphere. Why are we doing this and how are we going to behave today? This is why I also state the reasons I read and listened to 6 years ago and read today because this is a democratic instrument, a constitutional institute, and this is the space and place where the opposition speaks of the problems that affect society, proposes solutions and seeks responsibility. And I'm asking that it be interpreted that way, just like that and just like that. It was and I have to look at it before I move on to the essence of things, and the reasons why we seek the personal responsibility of the prime minister, the president of the HDZ and the president of the Croatian Government. There have been recent days of very, very mean, bad, ugly comments about the motivation of this initiative. Motivation is democratic and that political, because this is a political body. And yes, we believe in the power and power of politics that as an honorable profession and changes society and influences the appearance and movement of society. And that's it and nothing else. This is no abuse, this is the drop that spilled the glass on us. The drop that has spilled the glass that has been filling for the past few years, which has been filling for three years when it comes to public security and the safety of citizens, this is a glass that has been filling our numerous discussions, contributions, proposals, interpretation and finally less than two weeks ago with a debate on the state of police, therefore, with a once-controverted version against our desire to discuss the state of security in the state we were looking for. A few days later, a terrible thing happened that as politicians and people motivated us to look for a debate about this in the Croatian Parliament. We don't have an illusion, almost, that I can quote the president of HDZ six years ago, but this isn't about the opportunite, and whether this debate is an opportunistic debate and whether the majority of this assembly voted mistrust to Mr. Sanader, it's about the political need, our assessment that we are discussing this, thoroughly, for as long as it takes, that these things will no longer be repeated. And to determine the direction in which we go and the amount of will, desire and energy we want to invest in it. So in five years, HDZ authorities and governance have changed four interior ministers, the topic is neither new nor unexploded in the last four years. That's what they kept warning themselves about. I will not quote here but you all know very well and the entire Croatian public knows, regardless of political commitment and political will, how many problems there have been in the public security system, above all in the area of staff. And this is a debate on political responsibility, on the political responsibility of a man who is the editor-in-chief and the only person who has real political power and verticalized HDZ authorities, and this is Mr. Dr. Ivo Sanader. This is a matter of political responsibility, this is a responsibility for inaction because six years ago we talked here about alleged responsibility for the alleged act, we now want to discuss responsibility for general inaction and the consequence of this inaction is a catastrophic state in the public security system. As well as what we want to discuss about the concrete moves made in the wrong way that represent the moral responsibility that stems from the state of affairs. Five years, four interior ministers. A week ago, then another candidate for Home Affairs in the best of intentions and faith but in the nature of the lapsus, he says his goal is to depolitise the police, complete depolitisation, politicisation after five years. Elemental logic tells us that the police are politicized and that they recognize and see even a candidate for the police minister. And despite our abstention, we want him to succeed in this work, and that success will depend heavily on the level and intensity of the Prime Minister's support as the only responsible person, indeed, really, above all, really, and that support has been systematically in the last five years, I will not say on purpose but systematically lagging behind. Let me be allowed back a little while longer, back there was a lot of criticism, regrets, poison arrows about who sees the police and the security system in this country. At a time the government of the coalition government tried to depolitize the police. It's a very important thing. It's very important for society, it's very important for a level of trust, and when I say it no matter what I see the tiles rise, I'm going to try and prove it, I'm not going to stick to a general finding. Firstly, Croatia is normally in line with Europe as regards the formation of the Police Directorate, with regard to some other legislative solutions over the fact that during that period no significant or medium-sized political official was a member of the political party, including the first man of the then, then the police directorate Ranko Ostojic, who first tried to freeze after the appointment, and then fully stepped out of the SDP membership. He came to that place as a political person and I'm glad to be you. Perhaps this is an opportunity for some things to be further clarified, so being a political person means taking responsibility for a particular portfolio. If there's that will and strength, and the police were in charge at that moment, and I'm deliberately going back to make our current situation clearer to us. If you take responsibility for a particular portfolio, at that point you can be a political person and he never stopped being, he stepped out of party membership. Everyone knew that SDP was a candidate, but no one else, and you know who was employed in the '90s police, no one else in the entire pyramid of police authority, no one else. Don't bother them, Mr. Vice President. Well, it's not right. Well, it's early, so don't bother them.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18786	Order! Order!
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18787	Here you see, this wasn't even six years ago by HDZ. This makes me wonder some other things. But to return to politics and to the strength and importance of politics and police matters when it comes to the summit. The Prime Minister's support for the interior minister and the complete pyramid of the structure. No one, I stress that no one in that police pyramid and police department including regional and county structures was a member of the political party. He may have been a member of the HDZ in the '90s, but there was no politics. People were then also excluded from the system, fired, and thus very politically manipulated. This was not done for personal or political reasons, but because of lack of expertise. Speaking of which, how many of these people have been returned to the system during these five years of HDZ authorities? So how many people have been returned and with what basis? Depolitisation, professionalization, rationalization and democratisation and demilitarisation. Well, now if someone here today in the debate manages to prove to me that the police haven't been politicized in the last five years and manages to be stronger than our arguments here today, I'll admit it. You know what Gibboni says? "It could be easier to die than to forgive people." I will say that the police have not been politicised, that she has been one of the fully autonomous professional weapons of the Croatian authorities for the past five years. You can call it demagogy, you can call it an even rough word, but I believe it. And that drop that spilled a glass of us both as politicians and as citizens forced us to seek Mr. Sanader's responsibility for the state of play in the public security sector, for the insecurity of citizens. Security isn't statistics. Security is not low-crime statistics, and this statistics is not particularly favourable because the years are going, we expect more. We can no longer pronounce what was before. Do you know who dealt best with leprosy crime? Non-democratic regimes, dictatorships. Croatia, of course, is not. They dealt most effectively with such a type of crime. What we have in Croatia, which we have been talking about for three years and the prime minister, and we don't see him doing anything until these last shifts, and it won't be tolerated by the mafia, that organised crime won't be tolerated, but it turns out he's been tolerated for three years or it turns out there's no power and will to deal with this crime. We asked, not only the Secretary of Police's shift, or the Minister of the Interior, to be in line with what I said before, because the police are something else. The police should be more autonomous and independent, than we have proposed a series of concrete measures, and all of this was about bagatelizing and smiling. Ministers were spoken of as quality individuals who know their jobs and who have political support and were then removed by a move of feathers, are still declared good ministers. Now, there's something wrong with that. There's something not clear about it. Either they weren't good or now they're called "supermen." The people I spoke of from this pay phone a week ago as people, relatively affirmative, I even said that some of them, regardless of what we have our own people, people who go to elections and who take responsibility for the voters, that some of these people might also be in the SDP government. They could be. They have certain and professional human qualities. That's not the point. That's not the point. Gentlemen, we've been waiting five years. We've been waiting five years, terrible things happen. The Croatian public is waiting. Easy for the SDP. The Croatian public is waiting and nothing is happening and then, with one move, the cleaning of the shift of a complete or almost complete first echelon of the judicial and police authority. I'm asking a provocative question here. And why not someone else? Why doesn't Anna Lovrin, the Minister of Justice, head of USKOK or State's Attorney? And that's what I want to talk about here because it's all part of the same pyramid. Some of the people who were removed were titled quality and success until the last minute. There's no logic in my court, and we can talk about it today. Here, I'm saying it doesn't make sense, maybe someone can convince me that logic, legality, and results are there. The consequence of this general system in which one person is responsible and all responsible is one person, and then I guess one person is responsible for all and one person is left behind in other areas. We could have listed more here, but I'm not going to use the methodology of misappropriation of false allegations when it comes. There were more, but I'll only focus on two. Three are important in this Croatian case. The second is the economic situation in the country. And third as a coincidence of the first two, as a conjecture of awkwardness and a lack of strength and will to reform delays towards the European Union, we are now serious and we also need to talk openly about this, what has not been done and why Croatia has been waiting so many years. If it is part of the guilt, part of the responsibility, part of the awkwardness, part of the momentum on the part of Brussels and some of the members, I guess there is our responsibility. Well, I guess someone's responsible for that. I doubt it's any of these 61 or 66 HDZ deputies sitting here today, I think the responsibility is somewhere else. The economy, it's Croatia, it's my impression and you correct it, a country that doesn't use economics anywhere near its potential. A country whose government has no strategy and a country that compared to others, with which we can and must measure lag behind. A country that does not have strong production, a country that is not competitive, a country that does not invest, and a country in key sectors exists to make some decisions. We see this best now with the example of this global crisis, when some of the values that have been mocked a few years ago have become relevant again. The government is expected to decide in five years what to do with Croatian shipbuilding. Dear gentlemen, we are if I can be pathetic, and I've already been on the subject once, the only famously truly maritative people, the nation. No other Slavic people have been so tied to the sea for at least a thousand years, lived by the sea and suffered from the sea. Shipbuilding is not only a matter of business interest but also a question of the country's pride, pride at least a million, and more Croats living near the sea and who are from the sea in touch. Shipbuilding is a job that used to be a good living. Shipbuilding is, of course, a sector that has been going through a variety of turbulence, reconstructions on the world market, where the focus of the innovation and production force has moved from Europe to a far greater extent, Croatia has seen it all. There's been a war, in five years of this government we've come to the point that we don't know absolutely where at this point. The solution is to sell the shipyard for one kuna. We're against it. And those responsible for this, we are calling for responsibility in the last five years, to see what will be produced in Croatia in ten years' time in the smuggling industry, what will be done in Croatia in ten years' time. What will be Croatian pride, Croatian strength? What about energy? Where is the responsibility of one country's prime minister when he says it is, that HDZ is against nuclear energy. Well, look, we're not up for nuclear energy either, but we're for strong Croatia. But we are for a strong Croatia that must have energy. Which must be as much as possible, independent. Which must have competitive refineries. We don't have any of that. We don't have any of that. And we don't see anything going on here. Gentlemen, five years of power. In five years, America has found itself again during New Deal. She found herself again. When you talk about 100 days, when you talk about 100 days gentlemen, then you think about the first 100 days in which, and you probably know what 100 days in the history of civilization and more recent civilizations mean. So these 100 days apply not to 100 days of starting, but to 100 days where the government is making key moves in times of crisis and lagging. It's the first 100 days of Franklin Roosevelt. ... You have here, I hope that soon a law on hooligans will be passed, because there are several kinds of hooligans. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] There are hooligans who actually fight, but there are hooligans who have other phenomenal forms. Therefore, I ask you to keep the hooligans in this House in a decent manner of warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18788	Ladies and gentlemen, please allow the representative to present himself uninterrupted without delay. Peace please, gentlemen! Order!
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18789	So some methods in this House have been hooligan for 15 minutes, and I'm not going to finger anyone, and you'll probably figure out who it's about.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18790	Gentlemen, please, please don't put a representative in your word. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18791	Thank you for not protecting me, I'm not important here, it's important that this House is heightened by the behavior of some people, and unfortunately it's only the first year of office, it's going to collapse very much in the next three years. We stopped at shipbuilding, energy and refineries. Five years, so five years, not the first 100 days in which a determined, determined and visionary authority has passed key laws and measures in which it sees an exit from the crisis but five years of poor results and lagging behind. So now we can ask ourselves, and we can talk about it, we claim that just the weakness and the unwillingness to reform is political indecision, calculatorism, opportunism if you want, the result of Croatia being so late in negotiations with the European Union. And when I say he's late, then I refer to the promises we made four or five years ago. So I do not refer to anything written in divine law or in the Croatian Constitution but to what the Prime Minister and his associates promised us 4-5 years ago. And if we move part of the responsibility really and part of the obstruction to a Brussels administration with which we will have a lot of work to do in the future, but we need to know that our decisions, our strength and our key directions are not Brusselsian and that's why we're talking about responsibility. If we remove that responsibility, if we remove the obstruction of some countries that have traditionally been a little stricter controllers and not enemies, as well as some countries that were a little bit really obstructive and in our vicinity, we might have grabbed another moment. But the fact is that the perspectives of Croatia's entry into the European Union are weaker, that deadlines are dramatically shifted and that we need to ask ourselves who is responsible for this by reading some of the reports and some of the documents coming from the highest sources of the European Commission, and we have started with this Parliament's mandate, is Croatia's responsibility, is the government's responsibility. The administrative capacity is bad. Who's responsible for that? Is the opposition responsible for that? Is that what Pest is responsible for, Belgrade, Vienna? I don't think so. Someone's responsible here. And since only one person assumes responsibility, decides everything, brings people, replaces people in the highest positions, gives them or doesn't support them, we're talking about the responsibility of the Prime Minister here. And it's ladies and gentlemen the key to this story. So not personal... not a heifer, not an insult, but a need to discuss responsibility in the system of government, which is such by the will of the HDZ and by the will of its president. [[You don't understand.]] We do not say that such a system against which we are not and act differently, we do not say that it cannot be legal and that it is not legal and that it cannot be effective. He's legitimate in his structure, but we think he's ineffective. It's our attitude and we're trying to prove it this way. No results. There are no results in the fight against organised crime and public security threats. They're weak, they're inadmissible. Economically, not to go into growth rates in the last five years of which just one year the growth rate was 5.6%, this year the forecasts are much weaker. From the fact that real income does not grow, from the lack of strategic projections in Croatia, energy above all, from the lack of responsibility. Since it cannot be in Croatia, and this is also the result of this style of governance, some projects cannot give up or transfer responsibility to others because it is considered not popular. Let us remember the company of Adria. And who is too happy to pass the pipeline in Croatia if we have another choice, if that is irrelevant? Well, no one. No one wants to do it by themselves. But was that a chance for Croatia? Is she just rejected during a presidential campaign? It is. Now we have, we're facing a problem of energy addiction. We're weak, we don't have enough. How's that? How far and where to go, which way? It cannot be said that HDZ also organises a press conference at the headquarters of the big party for this need. We're against it, but we'll see what kind of public debate it is. And who's in charge of this public debate? Who runs this government? So do you think the SDP wants popularity on these grounds? Do you think anyone in this country will like it, that anyone will be popular if they say yes, let's talk about it too. We've got attitude, we've got experts. Maybe that's the way to Croatia despite everything. But gentlemen, that takes determination. There's a risk to that. You can't hide behind a party when it's convenient or appropriate. Because these are the challenges facing Croatia, which someone does not want, doesn't know or can't handle. And there will be more of them, because we all wonder what the Croatian force will be in 10 years. What product, what technology, what education, what? We don't see it. And lastly, I thank you for your careful listening and look forward to an open debate, neither the first nor the last in this House. I urge you not to abuse the institution of the wrong assumption, because I consider it one of the greater mockery of this House, but it is on your conscience. The SDP club will have a lot in mind and we'll do our best. Of course, they're going to debate a lot of our members because they have something to say, to make this debate contentious, for moments of harsh and dignified, as it is like this House. Mr. Vice President, honourable members of the government, Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18792	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, we have now, several representatives of the Rules of Procedure's injuries have come forward. A large number came forward for correcting incorrect allegations. I appeal to all MPs and MPs, and to the guidance of these institutions and to the violations of the Rules of Procedure and to correct incorrect allegations that the debate in this assembly should take place on this topic democratically, that there should be why not harshly, that no borders are crossed, but that we stick to all the institutions of parliamentary procedure. Therefore, I ask you also to take account of these violations of the Rules of Procedure of this debate on its further course, the tone, in order to discuss this topic in the democratic atmosphere. Mr. Representative Mario Zubovic, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18793	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I've been raising a plate of injuries to the Rules of Procedure and I'm calling on Articles 209 and 214 and I'd ask that the gentleman who was now speaking here be warned because he insulted the MPs in the House and called them hooligans. He repeated it twice and said explicitly that the hooligans are sitting here. I'm asking you to give him a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18794	Okay. Vice-President Željka Antunović, Vice-President of the House. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18795	Mr. Vice President. Article 213 of the Rules of Procedure, which speaks of the presidency's obligation to maintain order in the sitting, has been violated. I know it's a difficult and demanding job, but I also appeal to you at the beginning of this debate to take everything in your power, which is your obligation to force both sides to behave as is the case for a serious debate in Parliament. As far as we're concerned in the SDP, we want to be both sharp and critical, but we don't want to argue. We don't want it to look like a fairy, we want to face arguments seriously. The contribution to this must also be to maintain order, which is your business obligation, and your long-term experience will surely cause you to be sharp and determined on this day.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18796	And Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. He gave up on it. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I join all those in the assembly who want the debate to take place in the spirit of democratic principles, that the MP should be in the front row, that he should be allowed to do without any incursions and throws, which we have a constant practice and even now, to speak. His right to speak, and he cannot be disturbed by that right. But we have a permanent practice that different incursions to any representative, speaker from the representative bench or from this pay phone, to be disturbed with the intruders. And we can't have double standards. I should once, by the strict letter of the Rules of Procedure in those provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the maintenance of order and the tenacity of measures, give an immediate warning to a representative who, in other words, interferes with the speaker. Should I use this instrument and any representative when the attackers are distracted by the speaker to give him a warning immediately? When the signs of disdain or the signs of approval of the representatives' speeches by other MPs are given, have these intruders also given signs of approval or disdain or laughter, has this also been a distraction from the speaker? So, please keep an eye on me, I will strictly respect the Rules of Procedure, and I ask all MPs and MPs to limit themselves to respecting their own Rules of Procedure, our own law that we are working under. All corrections are withdrawn. Does the Prime Minister, Dr Ivo Sanader, want to take another word? Yeah. Here you go. Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18797	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I welcome this decision by the Croatian Democratic Community club to contribute to the atmosphere of dialogue and fighting with arguments, not shouting and insulting. We are in an interesting situation that we had as the president of the SDP said several years ago while HDZ was in opposition, the reasons for our then prime minister's interpretation were different. The debate was conducted as MP Milanovic also said the SDP president in one of the good diplomatic atmospheres, but arguments were discussed. I remember what I was saying back then on behalf of the HDZ Club. We are in one situation where a debate on the confidence of the Prime Minister has been launched, and thus the government as a whole, for three reasons. Three reasons are given. I studied them well, looked at them. The government responded to them, very systematically, reasoned and you got it on the bench. So it's about fighting crime. It is a financial economic crisis and it is a matter of slow entry, or preparations for entry into the European Union. And I'd say it's signifying that NATO was released because, at least so far, there's been a political consensus that I was at least sure existed, not mentioned in NATO, because I think NATO is a joint success. I do not accept it to this political majority that is today in the Parliament and the Government, because I know that it has always been the orientation of all political relevant political parties in the Croatian Parliament, although proposals for a referendum on NATO have come from this side. Thank God for the time it's understood you shouldn't, because... There is no need in the Croatian Constitution for a referendum to be introduced into NATO. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, when we talk about these three reasons, the Government cited these three reasons, namely those three answers to the three reasons why we are looking for today's debate very precisely, and I ask all MPs to, in accordance with the appeal of the SDP president, as well as my appeal to read them and to see that the proposals of the club, i.e. parts of SDP representatives, are not justified and that these reasons simply do not stand, which you listed inside. I've been listening very carefully to your speech and I can say that you've been looking for my political responsibility for the past five years. You dropped one thing, maybe not on purpose. You dropped the fact that in those five years there were elections twice. That these elections are not just anyone, but the ultimate institution of democracy, which is voters. And when we talk about democracy, you are absolutely right, that the proposal to vote in confidence is a democratic instrument of opposition to the Prime Minister, a government or ministers, and no one is questioning it. If anyone's been questioning these past days, I don't share that opinion. I think it's okay, it's democratic, but it's equally democratic to admit that there have been two elections in those five years and that twice this political option with its coalition partners has won. And if you say so, we are asking for your responsibility, and for me to answer you the same way, we are responsible to those who have chosen us and who respect the democratic majority or democratic will of most Croatian voters. We're responsible for them. And I think it's the only proper democratic approach. Everything else wouldn't be democratic. You know, of course, that your debate and your proposals will not pass today, but you have the right to do so. You have the right to a political failure and I have nothing against it, but I just want to say right now from this pay phone, if you're calling me responsible, if you're calling me responsible, then I'm going to talk about my responsibility. I am responsible for increasing employment in the past term, if we compare the exact statistics of 2003, December 2003, December 2007, 128 thousand newly registered employees. It's statistics, they're concrete people. It's not fairy tales and stories in the clouds. If you're talking about my responsibility, then I'll say that I'm responsible together with coalition partners, for paying back the pensioners, for one terrible trauma of the Croatian society that derivated from the original HDZ government. I'm not taking down our responsibility as a party to the same government in the early 1990s, '93. When he started, give him a debt. And we had the strength and courage to pay back that debt and find the money for that debt. If you are talking about my responsibility, then I will say that I am also responsible for returning along with coalition partners, for restoring dignity to Croatian defenders, who at a certain point, may not have been the intention of the coalition government, but have found themselves at a certain point humiliated, offended, reduced their rights, a new law was passed in 2001 on rights to Croatian defenders in which their rights were significantly reduced. If you're talking about my responsibility, I'll say that together with the coalition partners, me and HDZ as Prime Minister are responsible for restoring dignity to women and mothers, that we are responsible for greater tolerance in society, and we are proud of that. And that's why I appeal today for tolerance and debate here, for fighting arguments, but for tolerance in the debate. If you're talking about my responsibility, Mr. President of the SDP, then I can tell you that I feel responsible for the strongest position in the international community of the Republic of Croatia since its establishment, co-responsible. I include the President of the Republic and the Croatian Parliament. Everyone on their plan has done enough, but since I am at the helm of the Executive Authority, I feel very responsible for Croatia's best international position so far since its draft. If you're talking about my responsibility, then I'll say that I feel responsible together with the parliamentary majority, that we have paid back the debt to the officials and the tenants to whom the previous government is, I'm not apostrophe of you, you weren't there, but the previous government, no matter which government it was, but the previous government, even though HDZ's previous legal suspension, they sued us in court, the court gave them the right, the constitutional court gave them the right, and we paid back that debt to the officials and the tenants. If you are talking about responsibility, then I will say that I am responsible together with the parliamentary majority and the government for the macroeconomic stability of this country, that I am responsible for reducing the debt of the budget gap that we found 6.5 billion at the beginning of the mandate, that I am also responsible for ensuring the increase in wages and salary growth in full. If you're talking about my responsibility, I feel very responsible for ensuring the work of USKOK and DORH and the financial and financial assumptions that I can do much better to be able to function as they did before. If you are talking about responsibility, then I am also responsible for the social dialogue that we have raised to the highest level that has not yet been in Croatia. I am responsible for meetings with the social partners, from unions to employers, two months old, in which we are discussing social problems together and what weighs together both trade unions and employers and society as a whole and political parties. If you're talking about responsibility, then I'm certainly responsible together with friends from the coalition, parliamentary majority, and for the introduction of E-Croatia, for the collection of state finances and the introduction of the treasure, for continuing the construction of the highway but much faster and much more successful, but the continuation, because you've done a lot in the previous government. I'm talking about the gasification of Croatia, and I'm still not counting. However, all that I have listed, you have encouraged me, given your statement that I am responsible for the state of the country, of course I have a responsibility that I am not running away from. But my responsibility is also that, when I have listed all this data, and not to forget, I have mentioned NATO, Croatia will become a NATO member in the term of this parliamentary majority and will become a member of the European Union and one and the other, I hope with your full support, and we will share with you success, because it is a joint success throughout Croatia, but of course this government has led, this parliamentary majority has implemented it. As the success of the entire Croatia was also a success in the Homeland War and the creation of an independent, independent democratic Republic of Croatia, internationally recognised, the unity of all of us, all of us, but one political party won elections and led it, and we cannot ignore the historical role of Franjo Tudjman and the Croatian Democratic Community in the early 1990s on these things. So I think the problem we're talking about today and this debate is perfectly fine, the argument to see and see if we may have made a mistake, at a time when you've been giving us criticism. But if those criticisms were directed only to bring down the minister, to create a mess, to get early elections, then they were wrong. If criticism has been focused on improving the work of certain ministries, they will always be welcome. And you have that open door and open hand! The problem arises in our communication, and that is what I want now, to take advantage of this opportunity you gave me and the one you gave me, to tell the Croatian public in front of this High House and in front of the Croatian public what I think of the current situation in Croatia and how I see the vision of Croatia today and tomorrow. Because the problems that arised in the past were always the result of radicalising political struggle and turning a political rival into a political enemy. This in the past led to the division of both Croatian national beings and Croatian society, so much so that the divisions went through families and don't think this isn't, that this is deplaced. Remember a few days ago Croatia – Andorra, and Ustasha calls out, that these divisions went through Croatian families, that they shot at each other, until long, long, and so far shared in the Croatian people's life and also in Croatian society, I include representatives of national minorities. And that our task is to overcome them and forget it, not the past, for the proverb and the old saying is wise: “The people who have forgotten their past repeat their tragedies! ” We've had enough. And so, I think the past that was very burdensome isn't because we're fighting, it's not because we're keeping quiet about what's going on but it's because we're here to face it once and for all, to overcome it, to do what the Germans call it... you know what it means, “overcoming the past, ” to deal with it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And let's say that both that past and that two wars and II. World and Homeland, in which MPs in this House and each other, therefore, were born or some even participated and some of them were certainly not even so aware of what was going on in the Homeland War, because they were young, therefore, but two wars are still there that affect our lives today and our day. And that is why we need to talk today about how inadmissible it is and that there is our chance that all together, regardless of the parliamentary majority and the parliamentary minority, should all of us together in certain topics, put our heads on the line and resolutely oppose certain phenomena in society. I also think about organised crime, I also mean the shouting "For the House Ready!" of the entire stadium against Andorra, there I think about other things, there I also think about mutual tolerance, here I think about involving national minorities in all structures of Croatian society, here I refer above all to the education of young people. I would like to take yesterday's decision by the Presidency of the Croatian Democratic Union, and you quoted me as saying that yesterday we had, yes, we said yesterday and immediately replicated that statement of yours, of course we could be against something if a public debate was opened. We didn't say that we're against something, that we're against an atomic power plant, we said, we have three variants, we prefer this one that's one without an atomic power plant. But if the public debate shows that it is necessary, and experts assure us that an atomic central and public debate is needed, it confirms that we are open to that option. So I don't see anything controversial about it. Why couldn't HDZ and HDZ Presidency say their options? Why can't you say your option? Because we have three variants made by experts not politicians, and the leading minds, leading Croatian brains when it comes to energy strategy. So yesterday at the press conference I said and I will confirm here again, we have to do everything to make this happen in Croatian society, and here I mean both violence and organised crime and a permanent "revival" perhaps unconscious of the constitution, we have to do everything we can to prevent it. I'm ashamed when at, during a game that must be pride, in which we win or lose as against England to shout Ustasha, call. We have to tell our young people, and there's where we have to go together. I thought it was unquestionable. And I hope it is unquestionable that antifascism is in the foundations of the Croatian state, in the Croatian Constitution. That we're after the anti-fascist fight we're winners of World War II. That the Istrian partisans made a historic decision in 1943 on the accession of Istria and other islands and parts of the Matica Croatia. That the constitution of the criminal Pavelic is the ideology produced by Jasenovac and other camps. We have to talk about it just as we have to talk about organised crime because that's what's going on, what's going on in Prague is very much connected. So I think we need to discuss some things together from our past, bring some common points of view. If we split up around them, fine. But I'll also say what our position is and about communism. When I said antifascism yes, but I'll say communism no. It should be said that communism with fascism and Nazism was the third totalitarian, criminal system. People who thought differently were killed. There have been terrible tragedies on Bleiburg and Cross Road, and it is certain that today it is necessary to prosecute and sanction those who committed these crimes. And that's why we can't close our eyes in front of these historical facts or mitigate them. And that is why anyone who has to go to Jasenovac by the future of Croatia, I also think of the leadership of the Catholic Church in Croatia, because I can assume how beneficial it would be if the Zagreb Cardinal or president of the Croatian Bishop's Conference went to Jasenovac, bowed down to the victims and prayed for sacrifices. As I welcome the announcement of the prominent representatives of the Jewish community to go to Bleiburg, but I also expect the ladies and gentlemen to go to Bleiburg, the Federation of Anti-Fashist Fighters. In the first months of my term, I went to Bleiburg and Jasenovac and bowed down to the victims and prayed to God for them. But he sent a message saying we wanted it never to happen again. A similar move was made by SDP presidents Racan and Milanovic, and this is for every praise and I say it without complex because political parties are not their own purpose, but the instrument of serving people and citizens. So when political and church leaders do so, when other prominent people do so, then this "verganheits beveltigung" predominance of the past that we really need, and then there will be no more such calls at the games. And that's why I want to talk about Croatia's vision that will openly face these wounds of its past so that it can easily and without needless loss of political substance concentrate on the most important things. And these are: the standard of living of Croatian people, it's more employment of Croatian citizens, it's completed construction, the completion of the construction of infrastructure, it's building a knowledge society. It is the fight against organised crime and corruption and it is the entry into the European Union and NATO. But equally, we must openly say that there are those who would use individual crimes from the Homeland War to clear the entire Homeland War and the whole of Croatia. There are few in Croatia, in the neighborhood more. They worry me, but young people should be told that it is the Homeland War and not the uprising that we created Croatia on. The Homeland War is to be spoken of as a new paradigm of Croatianism and as a new paradigm of patriotism because they also participated in the Homeland War. Members of national minorities also participated. Therefore, among the defenders were members of other nationalities who, through their participation in the Homeland War, showed their love for the country of Croatia. And that is why young people today should be told that regardless of the Second World War in the Homeland War, members of all political options participated, but as I said the elections and Croatian citizens decided that HDZ was leading the state. He led her successfully. We won the war, received international recognition and today we are leading Croatia towards European integration. And that is why today we need to talk about Croatia's vision in which there will be an even greater threshold of tolerance among political parties but also among social groups. And that is why today we need to talk about involving national minorities in all social structures. When I met with representatives of my party HDZ, but also representatives of the Italians not full week after I went to Orthodox Christmas and said "Christ was born" or when I went to Gunj and met with Bosniaks who were there in coalition with HDZ or when I went to the Prince's vineyards, he met with the Hungarians. Or when I met with all representatives of the Roma community or representatives of the Czech and Slovaks, then it was a message from the ladies and gentlemen that minorities were not a threat but a chance. A message that we respect one another and another. I'll say this, too. So that there may be no confusion "Christ is born" which I then sent a message is not and cannot be a message to those who committed crimes against Croats and other non-Serb lives in the Homeland War. To them, the message is the fate of sanctions and prison. But it should also be said that there were many members of the Serb national community who found themselves in a warstorm without wanting it. And that is why it is good for Croatia, for the Croatian people and for all Croatian citizens all of what we are doing in the coalition with the SDSS and other minorities. I would also like to thank our partners in Croatia for bringing new quality into our coalition and even more concern and effort to revitalise the Croatian village. I also want to thank Croatia for the socialoliberal party that has entered into our coalition the necessary amount of civil liberal values. I want to thank HSU for leading along with us to care for the pensioners. And finally, ladies and gentlemen of this High House of the Croatian Parliament, this debate will end as expected, as the SDP president announced, knowing this in advance by the political failure of those who initiated this debate. But that's not what we're looking for and it doesn't matter to us. It doesn't matter who comes out of this debate by the vote. We can all profit from it. We can profit if we show a higher degree of mutual tolerance. If the debates are devoid of hard words and baseless accusations against each other. It would be better if that energy we spend in such debates as are important, which are democratic but to spend some of that energy on a common approach to combating organised crime, in the fight for greater tolerance in society, in the fight for health reform, for example. Last night, I saw Minister Milinovic and Honored Representative Ostojic in "Open". Well, I don't see any big differences except when you're going to be tactile from party positions. I am sure that in HDZ and the SDP, the HSS and other parties we have enough doctors who could give their hand to each other, form a group and say: “The health reform was the problem of Matosha’s government, Valentiæ, Racan, the first Sanader or anyone else’s tomorrow. Therefore, if there is a political will for it we are ready and quite finally asking for your understanding, this High Sum that after my speech I will go to the opening ceremony of the Rijeka-Zagreb highway, another of the major projects that this government and this parliamentary majority realised, another of the projects that we only dreamed of yesterday, and now they are here. Another project that gives our service to Croatia through politics full meaning. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18798	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Proposer representative, Mr. Representative Zoran Milanovic raised his word, sought, raised his hand for a word. But it is also representative Davorko Vidovic, a correction of the incorrect allegations. If you're gonna pull it back, well, good. What? ... So, he gives up and goes on behalf of the promoter, Mr. Representative Zoran Milanovic. [[You can't hear it.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18799	Thank you, Vice President. Today is a big day for Croatia. The road is finally finished, the dream of a generation. I remember when I was nine when I first drove that move across the Cemetery to Ostrovica and that's why I'm glad the Prime Minister went there and I believe he'll come back. Because today Croatia is as well connected as he has said to everyone that it can be gone and returned within hours, there is no obstacle. We're still making progress in some things. Verganheits beveltigung, I'm surprised why the Prime Minister with whose speech and performance is very much in agreement and otherwise does not speak in this tone. But if you look at the political and logical this is one non sequitor or transition to another generation, the question is, what is it? Mr. Prime Minister has not said a single word about what is the subject of this debate, which is the subject and initiative of the SDP club, which is the state of security, police, justice. So, what was the occasion. Not a single word, and I'm sorry about that, but nothing at all. Instead, we heard a historic talk about tolerance. The SDP is always ready to listen to such speeches. This is a club and this is a party representing such values in which both the descendants of both sides and sides and Croats are to a greater extent and many of those for whom I do not know what they are or have ever asked them, nor have anyone asked them. That's how we work. It is a healthy, open society, Croatian society, the society of Croatian citizens, but also the Croatian nation and its state as a state and nation. Just a couple of eyes. So it's not good when it's said to be a referendum for NATO, because Croatian citizens are not lenders. It's a collaboration with the people. It is an opportunity to together, there was an opportunity to make a strategic, historical decision for Croatia. We missed that opportunity. The SDP would oppose any force to pass the referendum in favour, to pass the positive. If not, I will advocate all my energy as a party representative to support this club and this party's membership in NATO when this House makes its decision. But obviously we don't understand what this is all about again. So obviously we don't understand what this is about. One is procedure, the other is content. In democracy, the procedure is terribly important. Citizens aren't lenders. The referendum of Croatian citizens is not a belief. It's an alliance with the citizens. I am pleased that the prime minister reminds us of the elections and I am glad that the HDZ in Croatia's territory received a little more votes than the SDP, and the SDP received 780,000 votes and that is it. That's what I've reminded myself of only once in this House when it came to the government's vote of confidence. But I've heard it from the Prime Minister at least 10 times, in this House or in public. Well, here's what I'm gonna look back on. Those 780,000 votes, the second day after the election, mean nothing if people don't do their job the way those who cast their votes wanted it. It's not taken for granted. But if you keep mentioning, let's say, the institutions of this state are important, it's important to this House to show respect for, and also to the opposition, and to the opposition, as well as the president of the state. Now, I'd be glad to see that respect in the previous numerous Prime Minister's speeches was more and there were at least as many of them as we heard today. We did not ask for extraordinary elections, and I am glad that the prime minister did not mention extraordinary elections, but early elections. There's no extraordinary choice. Extraordinary elections suggest a state of emergency. Early elections, as some of our neighbouring countries have shown in recent months, say Austria and Italy have not weakened that state, but that is of course what the prime minister said unreal at this point. It's unrealistic and we accept it. But we don't give up our right to talk about it. Because after the Prime Minister didn't say a single word, let alone a sentence about what is the subject of this debate, which is a poor state of public security. It's his, we claim, personal, political and moral responsibility for the resulting situation, for incriminating, for failures. We heard the whole... It's thanks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He could have said the credit, said he was responsible. Well, we don't think the Prime Minister has any credit for God's sake. He does, but it's not the topic of today's debate, and I'm sorry that at least he didn't look back on it. But he did not miss, or he failed to point out that Croatia is a highly in charge of the country, and that we do not have any answers for it at this time. And it's a responsibility, and we didn't mention it in our document, not in such a direct way. So, I agree with a lot of things the prime minister said but didn't answer what was important. I agree with the historical retrospective, and I don't need to finish speaking here as Marco Porcia Katonat about Carthage, because we need to talk about concrete things. And that is why I believe that the Prime Minister will return to this Parliament that works and functions without him and will respond to some of these criticisms, constructive dilemmas, questions, and historical speeches, talk about historical reconciliation, we have already told you these speeches. As far as this is concerned, we do not have any mortgages and we know where Croatia should lead and what Croatian problems are. Let's talk about these problems, not the partisans, the Ustashas that we talked about here again today, and so much about this Verganheits veltigung. Some obviously can't get away from him, they're in a vicious circle.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18800	Thank you. We're going to a club debate. IDS representative club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18801	Mr. Vice President, the esteemed gentlemen of the government, the distinguished gentlemen of the council. President Mesic, I'll quote him, he said something like this. "I am not sure whether early parliamentary elections are possible given the strength ratio in the Parliament as well as in the whole society. It is the right of the opposition to seek." Itd., etc. I agree with that definition 100%. The IDS will vote against the government as a sign of solidarity, clearly with the opposition. A higher need to talk about problems, I believe the government will accept good criticism, reasonable criticism, well-intentioned criticism and those who are in favour of mistrust should not be seen as those who are against the Republic of Croatia. The opposition, come on, and I'll agree with the prime minister, may have had an unrepeated opportunity about 10 or 11 months ago to take power. We didn't. Would the government then be happy if it happened, that's a different story. We may already have early elections under the HDZ. And that's why people in HDZ don't have to be surprised at this initiative or this kind of initiative. Is this power going to stand down alone, and if it hadn't been a year, clearly it wouldn't, and on the other hand, what would early elections mean? I'm not going to say total chaos, no one wants it, but I don't know how the country could have been under a few election cycles, or in those few election cycles. We have local elections in the 5th month of 2009. Six months after that, we have presidential elections. To put in parliamentary elections, and in a year, if we were to challenge them now, we would be another parliamentary. So 4 election cycles per year, in 365 days, the country would collapse during that period. The world is a little more reasonable, in America we see Republicans, Democrats not to enter the coalition. One month before the election, they reach a consensus, say, about the Bank's Rescue Act. In Europe, 2,000 billion kuna is found for the rescue of banks and no one is seeking elections in Germany, France or England. Why? Because everyone is aware that they are taking over the country in recession, it means a serious compromise of the authorities. Second, the most difficult moves will have to be taken by those in power who are very unpopular. And third, after that in the next regular election, the logic of things will result in a change of government. In one word, those who are in opposition will be power and vice versa. Those in power will be the opposition. I said, we'll be solidarity with the opposition's request, he's legitimate, but I also want to tell the truth. I'm not into politics the better or the better, or how the people would say that they were "blowing their dicks to ride a murt." This government, we see, is a multiparty government. Of course, it's all about responsibility on HDZ. This request is de facto, we see, we read motivated by the murder of Miss Hodak. This tragedy has also led to changes in power. It was the only logical solution. Unfortunately, though, we don't know the motives or the perpetrators, but what we learned this morning was that two other citizens of this city were killed last night. I even said once that we are worse than Serbia in 2002. There in 2002, there was an assassination of a political actor who had the courage to send Milosevic to The Hague, and here he goes to innocent children. Why did that happen? Well, it happened between that or that, because of 18 years of inaction. If you've given people from the underworld to become pillars of society, so you're not going to remove them as easily today as we can see, neither is this disgraceous chanting that the Prime Minister "for home ready", "kill, kill a Serb," not only in Maximir, but also at Thompson's concerts today, and it's good to know that in this House, for 15 or not, how many years only Caine turns out to be a freak, it's a good thing that some others realized that the devil just took the joke away. I'm also glad the Prime Minister said something about ours, come on, New Age's history. He said we'd have to sort of make a deal about it. We'll have to make a deal on who's in charge of Croatia. I say that the People's Liberation War fighters, even Joseph Broz Tito, made Croatia in the war, that the Homeland War fighters defended it, and so let's be honest and bring back those fighters' rights because that's when we pay back long history. If we forget that, then we simply don't celebrate the fathers of this country, then we caricature everything and our troops are without that act at least hypocritical. As for the election of new ministers, I dare say it is the second consensus after Europe that happened in this assembly. The third consensus we managed to reach is politics around the Croatian National Bank. As far as the economic mix is concerned, I'll also make the most of my time. We don't seem to know what's going on, that the crisis is coming to us, that she's moving east now. Perhaps the crisis first came to my city of Buzet with 6 thousand residents with exports of about $100 million and is now on the International Labour Market. In 6 months, the crisis will be felt by others in Istria, in 9 months throughout Croatia. We're lucky that our banks are safe, we've had luck with Rohatinski even though the heavy kuna has hit the exporters very hard, again the highest of Istria. Our exports last year were a billion and two hundred million dollars, the Primorje-Gorski County with 100 thousand inhabitants of only $550 million, and about tourism not to talk, but what we know, interest increases, export jobs are done. Will the Government today, Mr. Vice President help exporters as fishermen, if a Buzet Cimos 100% works for BMW, for Opel, Citroen, Garrett, Peugeot, etc., and BMW closes the plants for 4 days, Opel for 20 days, that means that in Buzet the 4th shift and work on Sundays not because the church is asking for it, but in the last 15 days I haven't noticed that anyone in Buzet is against working on Sundays or against working on the 4th shift. The 2009 budget will be realistically lower, real estate is not sold, tourism will fail in 2009, personal consumption was 7.8% lower than in the same month last year. And that's why we are about to put our heads together. In 2009, it's going to be a difficult year, a damn hard year, and they're also gonna promise to solve everything in 30 or 60 days, they're not actually telling the truth. It's the best example of shipbuilding. In 18 years, the state invested more than 30 billion kunas in it, and today the loss most likely to take over the state, 12 billion kunas above the core capital. "Oliary" is something else. He's doing a solid job. In 2008, I'm sure he'll make a profit. He can do it without bail. He can do it without recovery. In 2009, only "Olinik" will do the jobs of about $900 million, that's one-third of the order in Croatia and therefore, gentlemen, don't sell it. Other shipyards, I'll say sell the same. Try selling them, but I know no one's gonna buy them for a single euro, not a single kuna, but someone could put their paws on "Oliary." The boaters, meanwhile, fell 74%. It implies a drop in the value of ships, which is why the demand for new ships is dropping. The new ships can't even be ordered by Croatian shipmen. The Oilman has work in three years, it can be privatized, I want to believe that it will be bought by the Istrian economy, the workers, but in three years everything is open and so let it remain state. Next, "May 3" de facto has no orders. There's two ships on the overpass, two in the hatch. They're the Caputo. Who's going to give one kuna for such a shipyard? Who's going to give a kuna for a Spliti squirm that has to show the current loss they're admitting, of 2.7 billion kuna above the core capital, is really probably also 5 billion kuna, which per day as they admit to creating a loss of 2.5 million to 3 million kuna that on board from that Wessels program were doing a loss of 100 million kuna. Who's going to give the Kuna for a boat like that at the moment? No one. For a "Hajduk" and it is the same paradigm of the Croatian set, they will, for "Brodosplit", no one will give the kuna except clearly to the Government. Last year and this year for shipbuilding, each of the million and 580,000 employees allocated cca 2 thousand kuna, corresponding to 13 and 14 pensions for one million and 100 thousand pensioners. Next year, we're going to be singled out more and I'm personally against the fact that it's inescapable for anyone. That in this country, they always live on redistribution, and others have to black for everyone else. And that's what to say. No Istrian company on this day receives any kuna for recovery, not a single kuna from any guarantee. However, local self-government had to save the bank itself, we had to write off a 70-80% claim from the city of Pula in 97-98, as if Rijeka had written off 600-700 million kuna today or Split if no one had said thank you. Thanks to the workers, the management that runs and works in that shipyard today, they themselves had to renovate the "Cimos", "TPS", brewers, etc. Because we couldn't rely on the state and that's why I'm saying all of this to help the export economy which is the first to be hit and on which will be the greatest burden since the return of these 36 billion euros or 50 billion dollars that today amounts to Croatian external debt. A lot of redistribution, so let's start working somewhere else. Therefore, Croatia should be radically decentralised, so it is necessary to fight for this financial, economic how to say, autonomy of every end of the Republic of Croatia. It is not a destruction, I say it is the strengthening of the Republic of Croatia. We, the public money, are buying the political favor of the entire population, and I say a lot of it. To those who need it, disabled, old, powerless, let's let everyone else go to work. Everything else in this country and I'm aware of it, it's going to be easier than 18 years of winning, and they're only creating losses, I'm not giving. It is not easy to say enough to those we see scandals at the stadiums "For Home Ready" or "Kill, Kill a Serb" because 18 years have been tolerated and tattooed and may have been sung with them before or after the game, let alone today to order this country you live from your work. If someone has never voted for HDZ since 90th and I'm going to say that, to this day, for some HDZ budget, it's Damir Cain. So it's not hard to raise my hand for a proposal like this, even though today I dare say it too, is a better and worse government than no government. It's time to just make moves. If we hadn't made a decision seven days ago to secure the deposits, those 400 thousand kunas and if we hadn't all said the banks in Croatia were safe, and the withdrawal of the money started in all cities, we would be having a nasty problem today, some problems today have those who pulled that money. It's going budget, it's going hard for a year. You need to pay back your debts. The next year, I'm sure, at the charge of 6-7 billion euros to any economy, whether the state, or our banks. In the 4th month of this year, the state is due to return 800m euros. Just to pay off the principal this year we need one billion 160 million euros plus interest, plus 200 million kuna of those samurai bonds. That's about 2 billion euros somewhere. I am also sure that new elections will bring about a change of government. I don't know who kept the same power in Europe for two cycles, let's let Croatia go, but let's also stabilise what it has stabilised, agree on security, about banks, about investment in development. Perhaps we could agree on tourism, about shipbuilding we certainly won't and let's try to agree on an export economy. I repeat, 2009 will be a difficult year, as in 99th approximately for tourism when NATO hit the SR Yugoslavia. In 2009, it may be possible to talk about a national unity government, although I am also a skeptic to understand it. And lastly, I see it's red, it's clear that it's legitimate to wage a political war, but for the third time I call at least a consensus on the export economy and investment in development. Our inaction, our politicization, our opposition, every investment from golf to industry, from a garbage dump to an energy plant, led us to live in the cleanest part of Europe, to work nowhere less on us, to have the cleanest sea in Europe, but we no longer have any power along the sea, but that everything together is harder to repay loans both as citizens and as a country, the external debt is that 36 billion kuna. We will have less and less from the budget, public spending will be lower, and therefore indeed, gentlemen, let us try to put our heads on the table and let the Government understand that at least my debate in this direction that voting against is not also a vote against the Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18802	Thank you. Two corrections. Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18803	Mr. Vice President, thank you. In fact, it is absolutely an incorrect quote from counterpart Caina "Tito created Croatia". Unfortunately, I'm taking you back all the time. I have lived long in this Croatia and I know well that Tito has done everything to lose the identity of Croatia. By definition, the creator creates people, and he has done everything possible to make people as little as possible in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18804	And Mr. Representative Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18805	Well, it's an incorrect allegation that we've all provided a deposit together and thus stopped the stampede on the banks. It was actually this government, and the citizens believed it unlike your government when it came to the Rijeka Bank, and then the citizens didn't believe it and what happened happened happened. So this government, together with the Croatian National Bank, has done a good job in my opinion and Croatia is not so hurt by this global crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18806	HDSSB representative club, Mr. Representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18807	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Here's what I'm really sorry about not having a chance at a pay phone because it's really not a chance to welcome the Prime Minister. I am somewhat deplaced here to discuss the agenda item of the proposal which, of course, sent by the SDP to launch a trust issue to Dr. Ivo Sanader, the Prime Minister, and that there is no one here in the assembly. Even I'd say it's a matter of culture, a matter of home education, not talking about someone, of someone who isn't present, but here. The Prime Minister, obviously I want to say it's not our fault, the Prime Minister and the parliamentary procedure obviously combined this kind of event because Mr. Vice President, and the Bureau of Parliament certainly knew about the opening of the road, but we knew that this is the issue on the agenda today. Well, that's how it is, not a big surprise to me. But I'm sure given the way in which the state-level policy is being taken, that these gentlemen who are headed by the ministries are, in fact, the ones who conduct politics, the most responsible for both the good and the bad Prime Minister. Mr. Ivo Sanader. I will say in the beginning that the Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja will not support the government, this coalition government and Prime Minister Ivo Sanader, but we will not be in favour of destroying the government either. We'll be restrained. But our support and you know very well that our support, the support of the HDSSB, you do not have. Because there are few reasons, although there have been good things for the benefit of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia over the past five years, but there have been very, very bad and unfortunate things directed by the politics of the Croatian Democratic Community and those who have led the state for the last five years. Well, let me remind you of some. Don't mind me, it's a short time to list everything. But Imostroy, then an affair with Bechtel, then a trip to Verona and a deal about Pliva. Now we have a chance to see how Pliva is and how the Pliva unfortunately will end. So Liburnia, Mr. Minister, I hear on the right and Deputy Prime Minister. I hear on the right, the Liburnia affair. So after that, for example, the Karlovac kim and that attempt, those ridiculous sales of KIM, I'm not talking about the Privatisation Fund. Well, my people, at the Privatisation Fund, were sitting in the Supervisory Board of Ministers. Well, I can't imagine the minister, I won't say he's guilty, no. But the minister sitting on the board of directors or any member of the supervisory board of a company must feel some responsibility and the one moral. You can't say it's not my fault, I don't know. We had this case in Osijek, where coalition partners suddenly know nothing in certain cases. So, the Privatisation Fund that should have been abolished long ago, so we heard it would be abolished and that it would, I don't know what would be done. However, the Privatisation Fund continues to operate. Unfortunately, we in Slavonia and Baranja had the opportunity to see how it works on the County Sladorana which is once again based on some objective assessment of the day to another bidder who offered among others more than 30 million less than the bidder from the part of Osijek-Baranja County, from the city of Osijek where it comes from. Well, then, for example. Ship Split, then what happened in a public-private partnership related to the construction of handball halls. And if we don't talk about the ZERP, the Eco-fishing Act, which we've been deliberately defending, there won't be any delays. However, they were brought in, the problem is that we were brought into this situation to think about when it happened, what is Croatia's benefit? Not what is the benefit of HDZ, SDP or any other party, but what is more positive and beneficial for Croatia under the given conditions. Well, of course, in my opinion, and according to the HDSSB, it was more useful to postpone the use of ZERP at that time, at that time. But why we have come into a situation in general that we must think in such a way that we are forced to think, and because of the policy that has led to the European Union's accession policy over the past four years to the moment when we had to, or have had the opportunity to choose a less bad solution. Not to talk about what bothers me, what bothers my HDSSB club, the attitude towards the Homeland War, the extradition of our generals, the extradition of the file, the fact that "storm" is a criminal enterprise called and it's called, it really bothers me. And that is why I believe that the answer to this is a responsible approach to work, but I am not going to tell not only these governments, but also these governments. Not to mention that we in Slavonia and Baranja absolutely have no reason to support this government. What do we support for? Because we have minefields that, when this dynamic continues demining and with this amount of financial resources, Slavonia and Baranja will not be mined for 60 years. Is that why I support this government? Which remains mines on agricultural land and in forests. Or maybe it's the reason you've been announcing irrigation for years. It's only in the beginning. After five years. Or maybe something in Slavonia and Baranja all the villages are dying because people are moving out of Slavonia and Baranja. So why? Well, here you go, 'cause mine's all over the place. Because production was not launched, because the first war economy was destroyed, but it was not renewed, because small investment by the state is in the economy and in the processing industry, because it is terribly high unemployment. Finally because in Slavonia and Baranja and in the east of Croatia is the smallest gross national income. And it's not just statistical. About a month ago, the report was about gross national income and the state of development of certain regions in Croatia, and again Slavonia and Baranja were on the tail of the event. Therefore, given the situation we have at least, I could also talk about the economy and the work of this government regarding the accession of the European Union, I could talk about those frozen pre-accession funds, but I think the reason for this agenda was somehow organised crime and mafia. I'm deliberately saying organized crime and mafia, because that's the definition because we actually heard it here at the pay phone. So in Croatia it is obvious that there is organized crime and mafia, finished quote. And I support that opinion. I also think organized crime exists. Is there a mob or are we going to put an equal sign of organized crime and the mafia, perfectly whatever. What needs to be repeated again, and what we heard about this speaker is a statement and a claim not only by the current police minister, Mr Karamark, but also by senior HDZ officials, which is the intention that the police should be depolitised. So the police claim should be depoliticized. Here, I'll finish this presentation, so I'd like to be asked to explain to me what that thought was? What has our police been doing in the last five years? Was it the political police, so it should be depolitized? God forbid, I hope it wasn't thought that in the police in the leading places, party people worked in the most responsible places, so maybe it could be interpreted as being party police. I don't know what that meant. Well, I'm asking someone to explain to me what it means to depolitanize the police, because this sentence is put in the context of what was not good in the police. So that's why the police were politicized. But anti-mafia laws have been announced because there is organised crime and mafia. I don't know how much anti-mafia laws we need, all that contributes naturally to the fight against crime, organized and mafia, will come in handy, but I think we've had very good laws, that at least to a large extent, to prevent organised crime and the mafia, that what's said doesn't sound so much, to the extent that here in the assembly today we are discussing the confidence of the Prime Minister of Government. But when we talk about organised crime, what does that mean? Do we expect organized crime like Al Capone to come across people with machines to show up with bombs on the streets? Is that the show? I don't think we can expect organised crime in such a way, but I do think that organised crime today in Croatia represents very smooth gentlemen, that this smooth and respected "gentle" deals. Of course, the jobs in which they come in a largely illegal way, regardless of what they give in construction, urbanism in the privatisation of certain companies, and which certainly many of them have gained experience in that, let me say, savage conversion, because the State Review, when it refers to the conversion, finds that more than 90% of the conversion in the Republic of Croatia has been carried out in an illegal manner, or that it has not been implemented in accordance with the law, however you wish. So where is this organized crime hiding? I'd say there's some organized crime in politics. I'm sure it's in politics. That certain laws, that we're not even aware of, are being passed, and they're guessing, and later on, that there's a crime, that there's a police force, that a number of objects are being held in drawers for years, that certain people are being protected. Finally, there are also such things in court that we don't talk about prison. Well, they've been filling the papers lately with those who've been convicted. We can read, was at a weekend in Dubrovnik, was at some parties even more media escorts to gala dinners, every other weekend someone who was sentenced to not knowing how many years because of the crime scene, is suddenly walking either on Zagreb or on the coast. Therefore, we have an assessment by the European Union of the extremely poor situation in the judiciary, of increased corruption, and where is it? It is located not in the streets with machines, but in the structures of society, in institutions, in politics, in the police, in the judiciary, and it should not, in fact, be kept in mind. Therefore, to conclude the HDSSB will not support Mr. Ivo Sanader's government, we believe that this is still in the function of political bickering, that it has started from having no government shift and knowingly not having enough hands and that alternative and concrete solutions are not being offered along with this proposal. And I'd agree, I don't know who said it earlier, that people's "cut off the course, so they've got a moor", which, in that, the HDSSB won't get involved. So we don't keep sides of either the reds or the blacks, we want to objectively judge, but we won't support the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18808	Thank you. A few corrections. Mr. Representative Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18809	Thank you very much. I would like to correct the incorrect allegations of my colleague Šišljagić, that we in Slavonia have no reason to support this government. It is we Slavons who have every reason to support this government, and the citizens of Slavonia have best said what kind of government they want in November last year. It's never been invested in Slavonia like in the last five years, during this government, the government of Eve Sanader. Also, counterpart Šišljagic certainly knows that Osijek-Baranja County is the first to fall in the unemployment rate in Croatia, and today he could read in Slavonia voice that in the past five years unemployment in Osijek has been halved from 12 thousand to 6 thousand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18810	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure... What kind of correction is this, colleague Pusic? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] This correction is very evident and there was one claim made in the speech of MP Šišljagic, the claim refuted by MP Tomislav Ivić. It's a correction to an incorrect quote, whether it's true or not, that's another thing. But it's a correction to an incorrect quote. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Representative Vladimir Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18811	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It wasn't an correction to an incorrect quote, because I was speaking on behalf of the club and the HDSSB, not on behalf of all Slavons. Another correction of the incorrect quote, I couldn't read what you were saying in "The Voice of Slavonia", it's an incorrect quote the same, let me.../The speaker went off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18812	Well, for God's sake!
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18813	... to organize a concert for the shaming of Dalmatia in Osijek. [[The speaker was subsequently activated.]] I could read that.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18814	Well, is this now, a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a correction of an incorrect assumption? It's just... Half-memics. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Please. Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18815	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would also correct the inaccuracy of Mr. HDSSB's representative, who found that this government cannot be supported because of the situation in Slavonia, particularly the bad economic situation. I think he was partially denied by his previous colleague. But it is also important to say what Slavons think of this government, what they think of its economic programme, and that in the last elections, Slavonia gave 50% of the mandates to HDZ, headed by Dr. Eve Sanader. It should also be said that for economic zones, for the development of economic zones in Osijek-Baranja County in the last four years, the most funds have just withdrawn municipalities and cities in Osijek-Baranja County. And that the City of Osijek, where you led as a coalition partner, did not pull a single kuna. So, of the 324 million kunas that pulled the county all over this country, the most is through... One million kunas pulled by Osijek-Baranja, and the City of Osijek, whose head you were headed as a coalition, did not withdraw a single kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18816	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Representative Vladimir Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18817	Well, you know, Mr. Vice President, this wasn't a correction to the quote. A fellow representative has only a different opinion that can be okay and not. So it wasn't a correction, you were supposed to react and you hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18818	No! No! It was a correction to an incorrect quote, very precise and clear. You, Mr. Representative, colleague Šišljagic, spoke about the fact that this government has no reason to support your club because it is in Slavonia, from the point of view of Slavonia's interest. Representative Kovacevic, as before, and earlier, Ivić disproved your claim as incorrect with the claim that never, as before in Slavonia and Baranja, this government has invested. Therefore, this is about correcting an incorrect allegation. One is your claim, the other is a counterclaim. The third representative Susana Bilic Wardic. [[Thank you, Mr. Vice President.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18819	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, I am correcting in a series of inaccuracies spoken of by fellow predecessors, including you now, which my colleague Šišljagic said about the situation in Slavonia, I am correcting what concerns unemployment. The Prime Minister also said in his opening statement on the period from 2003 to 2007 in December 2003, in December 2007, unemployment in the Republic of Croatia was reduced, so in this segment, I suppose, I don't suppose, but I am sure of Slavonia. So there's no saying there's no reduction in unemployment. And as a confirmation of that, colleagues Šišljagić when talking about Slavonia, I also point out the example of Brod-Posavia County, which has just been in the period since 2005. In the year/'06, we note, therefore, all at the time of the government of Dr. Eve Sanader, records a strong decline in unemployment and employment growth.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18820	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18821	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, you know that the Rules of Procedure and I appeal to you as Vice-President of the Parliament and your objectivity, here's what the injured Rules of Procedure is. Well, she didn't fix anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18822	Well, no injured Rules of Procedure. You did not specify which provision of the Rules of Procedure was injured for your duty. But aside from that. I repeat myself again. You made certain claims regarding Slavonia, this time regarding employment in Slavonia. My colleague Bilić Susana Vardić denied you your claims. And it's a correction to an incorrect quote. There's no more going on now. We can't... [[/Intruder: Not Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. She didn't correct any allegations because I didn't say anything.]] You can't take your word for it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Still no more. Ms. Representative Nevenka Majdenic. There's no more mutual discussion, you know.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18823	Thank you. Well, I did. [[Intruder: Mikfofon!]] [[/Intruder: Turn yourself in for God's sake.]] Someone's shutting down [[Aggression: Turns someone off.]] Here I am also correcting the incorrect allegations, one of the incorrect allegations of Mr. Representative Šišljagić. [[Intruder: Stay on.]] He really said he didn't invest in Slavonia and Baranja. He said he didn't invest in entrepreneurship, one of those things, which is not true at all. This government invests exceptional funds in entrepreneurship through small-scale economies, through incentives, through support. He's investing in infrastructure. It invests in gasification, invests in irrigation, and it is not true that it is not investing in Slavonia and Baranja. And the results on Slavonia and Baranja's macroeconomic plan are excellent. The arguments are for this report by the Zagreb Chamber of Commerce, which speaks of all the positive trends. So that's not what it's all about, then that's not how it's gonna be. Therefore in Slavonia from day to day, Slavonia and Baranja change their appearance from day to day for the better, and it should be easily appreciated.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18824	And Frano Matušić [[Intruder: Only Slavons and Barans don't know that.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18825	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague incorrectly stated that the government is responsible that "Storm" is a joint criminal enterprise. The first "Storm" is not a joint criminal enterprise, nor has it been proven anywhere. Another thing the government can't be responsible for so-called. Are cited in the indictment written far before this government took responsibility. And the third thing this government does is to prove that "Storm" is what was the brightest victory in the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18826	Mr Ivan Čehok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18827	Mr. Chairman, Madam Prime Minister, Vice-President, Minister, Secretary of State, Madam and Gentlemen. I would perhaps at first advocate a few methodological instructions common because one who does not well determine the method as Aristotle says will never come to the principle. So it seems to me that perhaps not challenging either club and one of us MPs to speak as they wish it might be a good first to avoid Parliament becoming a place of stadium cheers, to become a place where we sportly cheer with certain attitudes, we throw each other. I just think we're sending a bad picture. The government is also trying to fight with all of us here, and I'm afraid those who write to us these days will be right, unfortunately, to watch us and our fights that really look like sports cheerleading instead of a reasoned debate. And secondly, it seems to me that it really is completely... Go back to Tito, Ustashas, partisans, red and black. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Simply if we want to challenge each other in any way or question each other, we do not wait for each other in historical ambushes. There's no use in those ambushes. Usually we'll be the first to fall into a trap and I don't think there's really any need in that sense. When it comes to voting on the government's trust to discuss what happened 50 years ago or to return to the past, these may be purely some kind of appeal of my testimony. I don't mean to do this, I'm saying I'm not contesting anyone's right to speak his mind. I'd be the first and I'm for the premiere shift. I am in favour of changing the prime minister of a country that is abject and considers to be one of the richest in Europe, the most orderly in Europe, and two weeks ago, she had to invest 200 million Euros of budget money, the money of all citizens because both monetary and financial and administrative and governmental authorities as you wish had not seen in time what is going on in the area of financial mixing, which is happening in the financial capital market and now taxpayers' money has to settle its own failures. Yes, I am for the replacement of such a prime minister. But it didn't happen in Croatia. It happened in one of the wealthier countries in Iceland. I am for the shifts of all those European prime ministers who had to urgently council because the crisis from the financial markets of America has spread to European financial markets because their domestic domicile financial markets, the stock markets, the stock industry has simply not been strong enough and they have not been sufficiently resilient, they have not built enough defensive and resistant mechanisms for the system to become immune to these spills and, to these developments, financial outwards. I would be in favour of replacing such prime ministers and such prime ministers because this country, where citizens and otherwise, impose too much on their salaries on its contributions, regardless of the government, because this country which otherwise hardly covers the end of the end and where public spending is much higher than actually citizens can do in the economy, that such a country must now give our common funds to ensure both banking peace and financial peace and smooth economic flows. But this did not happen to happiness in Croatia thanks to the smart monetary government, thanks to the fact that the monetary government finally managed to be independent of both the Ministry of Finance and the State, it is dependent on us, of course, as the Supreme Legislative and Representative Body. That didn't happen in Croatia. I would and I have been in favour of changing prime ministers in a country where crime rates are 5 to 10% a year. I did for the shift of prime ministers in the country where the main affairs and states run the opiate drug dealers. I'd be on a shift like that, and I'm on a shift like that, and I don't think anybody's here and there should be any of us who wouldn't be on shifts like that and the prime minister. I am also in favour of changing prime ministers, but not only prime ministers, but also mayors and mayors in countries where cities need violence, in countries where high school students have to go to school with protective means, girls with those anti-violent sprays and in which you have security guards at the school door as mandatory. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, you have such cities at 100 or 150 or 200 or 300 km from Zagreb. And I will repeat what I said and last time we chose two new ministers. Do not convince citizens that the moment we enter the European Union that we will have less violence and that we will have less crime and that we will have a lower crime rate, because it is simply not true and it will not happen. The issue of national security on which, which is one of the reasons why we should change government, is, above all, a matter not only of the Government, but of all of us, starting from our MPs, especially of those who are lower and I would say more direct levels of decision-making can provide security, which are mayors. And don't be fooled that in Croatia the same rate of crime, street murders, street violence and fighting in all cities is the same. No, it's in Zagreb. That's what everyone confirms now. You can read that in the paper today. So I'm wondering, gentlemen of the SDP, who's been ruling Zagreb for 10 years? Who rules Zagreb? You think it's for the murder of a senior on the way I congratulate the police if they were able to find the killer, that for the murder of graduate Luke Ritz, because it's not true, Mr. Milanovic, what you wrote yesterday in the morning was that the drop that spilled the glass was the murder of the unfortunate girl Ivana Hodak. It must be a terrible murder, but it's just as terrible a murder as Luke Ritz, because he was shoeed on the street in Zagreb. So you don't think the Prime Minister, Vice President Kosor or Polancec or Adlesic is responsible for that, do you? The city authority is responsible, not only in Zagreb, but in Varazdin, Split, Osijek. We can't, in Zadar, no matter which party the mayor comes from, it's just no big deal. I asked you not to turn this into cheerleading. I know in the absence of arguments, it's the only thing you have left. Let me finish! And we can't amnesty anyone at all levels of government with all the levers of power, no matter what instruments he has in his hands of responsibility for general security. Ladies and gentlemen, security isn't just about calling it a public virtue or a feature of a well-organized community. Security is always a personal feeling. A psychologist... I would say that security is one of the basic human needs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So no matter what we do, however society is arranged, the question remains whether a citizen feels safe. Is security part of the arrangement of the entire community, and then, of course, it feels subjective whether it feels safe or not. In order to succeed, it is primarily important to ensure security, to arrange the community, starting with local committees, fourths, cities, municipalities, counties, and then to the state. When it comes to security, look only at the extraordinary German laws and rules of so-called. a cop in the community about what they call some kind of community approach. So they come from a community where a cop in a community, a councilman in a city council or a municipal council, a mayor or... or whatever it is, what kind of arrangement they're in common guaranteeing safety and somehow a peaceful dream for their citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No, we don't want to see that. We expect the prime minister to walk behind every group of fans or I don't know young people and to ensure that. That's not possible. What we have to do and that's where I agree to professionalize the police, but it's good to connect with the community. I'll tell you that projects that I first started without false modesty of a cop in the community, contact police officer, so if you want a cop on a bike, which is possible in Zagreb to bring excellent results, because police and citizens can be in touch at any time. It's not hard to do. It can be financed from the city budget, but then we won't give 40 million kuna to football clubs that will never see the champion league. Therefore, we need to set priorities. It's the same in schools, it's the same in jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, remember, it still doesn't matter who the government was. We've had people breaking into our courts, killing judges and killing social workers. Then we didn't ask for the Prime Minister's shift, because we knew he couldn't be the man to blame. It's all our fault, it's the general security in this country. I think this is an opportunity as usual. In the 1990s, we had a question of territorial integrity. What sociologists say is organic solidarity has developed. We had cohesive forces. This is today an opportunity given the level of security, to show that cohesion force again. I don't know what it's like to find and to sort of agree together and determine the security issue as a fundamental, national question, not a question of red, black, white or yellow. Because I'm afraid then we're not going to end up with Standal's novel "Red and Black", but the other one, "Madam Bovary", with a typical level of under-citizenism, mutually alienating, accusing, and citizens will feel insecure. The second or third question listed as a request for change, the issue of general economic activity and economic growth, monetary security, the issues raised here. I think it's something to discuss anyway in this House all the time. But it is certainly not something to discuss under the agenda or under the heading "Sen of Government" We have had elections recently, sure that Croatia today is faced with recession, or will be faced as the other countries in our environment and again and again point out that this is not just a question of prime minister, but of course new entrepreneurial ideas, and then, of course, local self-government. You have local self-government that has succeeded in 10 years to boost economic growth that is below the European level of unemployment. I will not mention Varazdin because it is probably clear to you all, but you also have small municipalities, here is a colleague of Mihalić who made one of the biggest zones in this part of Europe within 3 years. It's possible to do a lot in cooperation with the government, but it's still a question for all of us. Not only in no country, in any country in the world, only the prime minister can be responsible for the conduct of economic policy, or only the government. And that is why I repeat both HSLS and HSU, the first would be for the change of prime ministers and for the change of government if all that is happening today in European countries, if the same happens to Croatia. We managed to protect ourselves from all that, we still have a good level of general security, which doesn't mean it can't and must be better. We can also fight organised crime together because only organized can you fight an organization that is stable, cohesive, such as organised crime or criminal organisation. So let's let the Prime Minister and the Government work together and realize that all these issues that are the reason for the government's shift are questions that we all have to answer together and for which we all have to work together from the local committee to the government, from mayor to the ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18828	Thank you. A few corrections before, before. [[Applause.]] Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18829	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I want to correct a respected colleague of the Czech Republic who said that Croatia did not suffer a financial crisis. I wonder what country Mr. Chehok lives in. I live in Croatia in Djakov, Mr. Minister Shucker, and I would like you there, as it says in the Rules of Procedure, also applies to ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18830	Okay, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18831	Absolutely, so give him a warning. In this country, annual inflation is 8%, most Croatian pensioners have a pension of 1600 to 1700 kuna, workers have minimum salaries, so I invite you to try to survive for a month with that pension and with that salary, while I wonder what average Croatian family has these 400 thousand kuna savings and in which banks. And ask the banks why they're closing the loan, etc.? And as mayor you should know that the Ministry of the Interior... /The speaker has been turned off and turned back on./... Well, it's a cultural thing to turn this off. That the mayors do not appoint police station chiefs, but they are set up precisely for this depolitisation by political means. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18832	Second correction, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18833	Thank you very much. I live in Croatia in Zagreb, I see that it is the same thing to be noted before the debate. I would correct the incorrect assumption, one of the incorrect allegations, here, but this one remains the most in my memory, which is that the mayor of the City of Zagreb is responsible for the uncertainty in the City of Zagreb, which is absolutely incorrect. I guess we know how things work, who appoints chiefs, who the ministry is in charge of security, etc. If so, then it could also be said that you are responsible for Mr. Corrado and what he has done. So I think you need to be a little more careful when you're giving someone responsibility, you have to base them on the laws of our country.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18834	And Mr. Representative Sima Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18835	Well, in his rhetorical enthusiasm, my colleague Chehok expressed a great deal of inaccuracy. Here's what colleagues said that local self-government units are responsible for security. Well, that's what I think is incorrect. Read the Constitution, read Croatian laws. Corrade, let's say I expect you to resign today because of three arsons, or two fires in the university, if you feel responsible for that. And colleague Chehok, first of all, I think you've brought the police into the community. You couldn't introduce until I passed the law and made a concept and instructed you and taught you how to do it. And at least give some notorious truths. I know you must support the government, but at least find some truths that drink at least that much water. And I understand the need for you to support the government in this way, but you're using at least part of the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18836	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Agent Ivan Chehok.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18837	Mr. President, Mr. Lucin and his colleague have not corrected the incorrect allegations and others, fortunately, the late Corrade did not commit his crime in Varazdin, but he is to an accident in Croatia Zagorje, so I cannot feel responsible. And you, Mr. Lucin, have not been able to instruct me in your life because there is still a big difference, if nothing else in education between you and me.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18838	It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure because you spoke of the mayor's responsibility for the state of security. There was a correction by Sima Lučina's representative, and therefore it is the correction of the incorrect people, not the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Maras, you gave up?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18839	I gave up because you said what I thought. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18840	At 11.36, it was time for a ten-minute debate. On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18841	Mr. Vice President, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. As the initiative to seek the responsibilities of Prime Minister Ivo Sanader has been voiced on behalf of the HSLS club and that it is impossible to find a connection between these murders and the Prime Minister Ivo Sanader, I would like to make it very clear on behalf of the promoters where this relationship is located. The debate on the state of the police has waited more than six months in this House and is not the responsibility of the Prime Minister. Hiding that debate in the afternoon so that citizens don't see us thinking in the Parliament about this report is also not the responsibility of Prime Minister Ivo Sanader. But President Ivo Sanader's messages are not interested in the opinion of the opposition, the opposition is irrelevant, which I care about Milanovic's opinion, nothing can happen to the minister because it is successful. These were messages from the Prime Minister before and after the debate on the state of police. Thus, one Prime Minister does not hold communication with the institutions of the Croatian state, does not behave as we heard this morning, and this is an attempt to solve certain problems together. Because the debate on the state of police is an attempt to make a contribution to change something. And not only that, after there was a new murder on the streets, the prime minister was telling the truth again. The prime minister didn't say it was obvious that we had to change something in the police and the leaders of the judiciary, so he changed power. No, he said murder has nothing to do with shifts, everything's executive, everything's perfect. We're just gonna change leaders. Yes, those are messages from the Prime Minister. Messages where he didn't realize again that citizens need to be told the truth, that there are problems in the services, that they need to be changed. Also, the Prime Minister doesn't say anything about when the first people who came to him told him too many politicized services in the police should change to make them more effective. The Prime Minister doesn't comment either. And that's why the SDP club is very clear, not doing it is a responsibility, not understanding that even from the opposition can come a well-intentioned warning, a desire to change something that the safety of citizens is not measured only by statistics. The Prime Minister didn't appreciate that, either. But as you can see, the fact is there are no mistakes, they are not admitted to failure. Yes, that's our president of the Croatian government. That's why we think we need to discuss his responsibility. She exists. She exists. And it is also necessary to give support to new people, to realize that it is guilty of politicisation in certain services of the Ministry of the Interior, because it is the only way we can change the situation and that is why it is launched. That's why we see the connection here, and that's the responsibility of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18842	Thank you. HNS Club, Ms. Representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18843	Mr. Vice President, distinguished members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. It's really good that before he left, he was speaking to the prime minister, because, after being exposed to his coalition partner, Mr. Chehok might think that this government really doesn't think that the government is responsible and should not be responsible for anything. By the logic of "God save me, my friend, I'll take care of my enemy." So this request for a vote of no confidence to Prime Minister Ivo Sanader gives us a good opportunity to discuss the difficult and serious situation in which Croatia is at the moment. In fact, I think that this request, and so we at the HNS Club, understand it, is one substitute for an institution that may need to be introduced into Croatia, which is that without a request for a vote of no confidence, without special initiatives we simply have in Parliament some kind of state and nation report every year. So that in Parliament we have a debate on what it looks like years or what it looked like, which is a balance in every respect of political, economic and social, which is the balance of the year behind us and which are fundamental or main measures and policies ahead in the coming year. In this way, we would not need such initiatives to give us an opportunity that is certainly important in Parliament, to discuss, especially in one obviously breaking and crisis situation, to discuss the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of society and the problems that we need to deal with. So as far as the HNS club is concerned, that's how we'll understand this debate and discuss it in that direction. The immediate cause for this request, and then for this debate, in our opinion, is a double. The first is the growing monster of public violence in the last 7-8 months, killings, beatings, violence and mass use of Ustasha parolees at public events not only at matches but also at individual concerts such as Thompson singers. As far as the games are concerned, members of the government and senior local and state officials are present. Second, the economic crisis in which Croatia was in the context of the global economic crisis and where it has proved that there are needed measures and policies that could mitigate the consequences of this crisis for Croatia and in some ways protect Croatia's society and economy from the consequences of the crisis that it will definitely have. Of course, it is not possible that such a global crisis has no consequences on Croatia, but it is also necessary and I think it is absurd to claim that it will not have, but it is also necessary to prepare for it. Just an example by the way. It is obvious that the tourism industry will be affected by this crisis because it is both European and global and that we are up to it in the next season. What does that mean to us? Obviously, medium tourism will be the most affected. In order to prevent anything from being prepared, we must probably choose targeted markets. Whether it is high tourism, whether it is a specific aspect of tourism, but we must prepare a tourism industry for the situation that is coming to us and seen white as well as today, which is that this industry that is one of our most significant will be seriously affected by this crisis, even outside Croatia, and not only in Croatia. We're not prepared for that kind of thing. And given these two shocks, therefore, of the public violence that has taken on such a visible form and, on the other hand, the obvious sense of economic uncertainty, as well as the unpreparedness of the domestic economy for these blows, have caused the need for this debate. However, these two causes of course have much deeper and wider implications, and also deeper and wider roots and area of action. Sam's tip of the iceberg is what's causing this debate. Violence in various kinds of events, violence in kidnapping and problems about return of apartments and property, violence in different parts of Croatia in local areas, violence that has been gone unpunished for years where no orderlies go by, and often not perpetrators. For example, where the perpetrators are found, as in the case of the beating of Igor Radinovic, the perpetrators are obviously much more afraid of the orderly than they are of both prisons and states and laws and all other things. And they're willing to put up with all this because they understand they're threatened with far greater danger than the state and prison. That's all he's saying in himself. Therefore, impunity or unfinding, non-finalisation of such excesses and cases of violence in Croatia has gradually created an atmosphere in which people think it is a relatively low risk. Killing someone or beating someone is a relatively small risk, for anyone who can remember that it happened to them, or that they did it, did not really happen to them or suffered anything because of it. The fact that people believe it is possible to act this way because it goes unpunished was produced as a result of the atmosphere that it has, for example, influenced and influenced by a series of affairs. For example, the Maestro affair we discussed in this House, in which nothing happened as it is known. The Maestro affair where the Vice-Presidents of the Privatisation Fund sat in prison for 16 months. The youngest among them is now released right now. Where ministers, here I am correcting one of the colleagues who spoke before me, who were not on the Supervisory Board but were on the Governing Board of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, five ministers. Not only did they not resign, they didn't even offer to resign. They didn't even say people, a job failure. Where the vice presidents sat for 16 months in custody, and, of course, the president of the fund, who also participated in all these decisions, was not even asked about heroic health, let alone responsibility. Such a situation creates an atmosphere in which people conclude, so listen, it can be done, things can be done, things go unpunished, the main thing is that you have a good political backdrop. The fact that someone is in power doesn't release him from responsibility, contrary to what's been said here. The other way around. The government is the first responsibility, and then everything else. And the fact that someone says that people, I'm responsible for it, so I'm responsible and for what wasn't good doesn't mean his weakness, it means his strength. If, of course, he knows how to fix it. An affair like Brodosplit, unsolved, nothing, creates an atmosphere of lawlessness, creates an atmosphere of emotion in which of course I will now take action and take it into my own hands to beat a random passerby, although nothing is brought to an end and nothing will be. Liburnia, Tele2, all cases without epilogues. Anyway, whoever's responsible. As soon as you have an affair without an epilogue, it creates an atmosphere of lawlessness, an atmosphere of reduced security. Today we were listening to the Prime Minister talking about the inadmissible Ustasha running at football games. I couldn't agree more, we talked about it for a long time. I'm glad we came to similar positions. But what about Inspector Gaspartz who reported it, who was suspended because he reported it? Where is he? Did something happen to that case? Without it, the message is therefore without bringing to the end of such cases, the message is lawlessness. No matter what you do, nothing will happen to you and the law and the same criteria will not apply. It's a situation that, of course, wasn't created only in last year, it's a situation that's been created for years. It's a situation that was created and destroyed by an entire segment, an entire profession. It is the profession of the judge and the segment of the judiciary, by bringing political similarities, by years, by evicting judges, by political decisions in court proceedings. So that is also to avoid the debate immediately you are, we are, from 18 years of age, 14 years in HDZ power, so responsibility is also proportionally shared, but I absolutely accept that everyone in this respect could have contributed more than they have, to the clearing of this situation and that from this moment on, and that, in my opinion, is the purpose of this debate, should contribute to the resolution of this situation, because it will not go away. I warn you in this House that the judiciary will not pass today. It will not pass in the European Union either, but much more important than that will not pass here in Croatia. We have economic problems that have opened this debate. Economic problems where GDP growth has been halved, industrial growth halved, trade turnover has only increased by 1.7, export coverage has dropped 45% since last year by 3%, wages are stagnation, the flood market. That's what this Parliament needs to talk about. What are our plans on this? In what way will we react, how will we deal with this situation? The security of the roles is a fire-fighting, one-time measure. What you need is politics. The policies that will ensure industry in the future will ensure GDP growth. We are faced with a situation where we will be halved by GDP growth next year. At the same time, we sell INA to MOL in the situation of absolutely the most unfavourable, as regards stock exchanges and stock values, absolutely the most unfavourable. We're going to privatize the shipyard in the situation of absolutely the hardest, most unfavourable. We are not using European funds to provide people who will potentially lose their jobs in this shipbuilding restructuring. Let us start using them in order not to say, there is this danger, we do not use the European funds that the European Union provides precisely because it knows that this is a follow-up to the restructuring of shipbuilding. My colleagues and colleagues, I'm not telling you this to fight and compete and accuse each other. They'll vote the position yes, the opposition against. So, there aren't many big surprises. But politics and government personnel must change urgently. That's what the government itself said when it changed the ministers of justice and home affairs. However, this change, therefore, of a single person at the top, will not bring any real change in those portfolios unless a fundamental attitude is changed to criteria of professionality and personal integrity, not party obedience. Until that criterion changes, we don't have a chance and this is the time to turn politics around. They need people who know, not political listeners, but at the same time we haven't done anything in the sphere of the economy, preparing agriculture unprepared, shipbuilding unprepared, industry unprepared. We didn't do anything in those spheres. These are areas where we need to start some kind of reform so that the situation hopefully next year, without the need for such an initiative, would be more constructive and perhaps a little more favourable. Otherwise we'll be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18844	My colleague, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18845	Here I go, Vice President. Otherwise we'll end up in the situation we're in today, which is why do you believe in your eyes more than the Prime Minister? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18846	Thank you very much. That's a handsome anecdote with that French prince. Does she trust her eyes more? Or does she. I won't go any further. A few corrections of incorrect allegations. Mr. Representative Ivan Chehok.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18847	Well, I would ask the respected Mrs. Pusic to first trust her ears, so when she quotes my words, at least be in the assembly when I speak. So, I did not say that the Prime Minister is not at all responsible for the state of security, but I said that he is responsible, but that all other levers and levels of government from therefore mayors, mayors, police commissioners, so anyone who in any way from the level of government can contribute to general security. Therefore, it is certain that the prime minister is responsible, but others are also responsible. Well, second time at least be in the assembly when you're already interpreting my words.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18848	Mr. Representative Ivan Jarnjak, Vice President of the House. One correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18849	Dear Vice-President, the esteemed representative said there is a mass manifestation of fascism in Croatia. That's not true. There are individual cases that we absolutely condemn, but it's just as dangerous for the entire country to declare as a fascist event. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18850	Third Amendment, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18851	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First of all, it is incorrect that insurance was a firefighting measure. It is not a fire measure, because nothing happened in the financial sector, this only further strengthened people's confidence in financial institutions in Croatia. Second of all, you said that in cases, namely, "Brodosplit" and "Maestro" nothing happened. That's not true. First of all, the charges were filed, second of all, the case is being processed. And as a third, I would remind you of some of the affairs you weren't talking about, which happened and there are no epilogues. It was an affair around the retirement home where your party colleague Cacic, his firm took the money and didn't do the job. Just like the Technical School in Zadar. You're laughing. I am sorry that you are laughing at us for having no epilogue, where someone took money and millions of kunas of Croatian citizens and did not respond. This is the country's fault. I didn't hear your voice that you were up against it and that you were looking for a trial. And even less, you asked your colleagues to pay back the money.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18852	Next correction, Mr. Agent Antom Mance.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18853	Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18854	Here we go again. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Each of the MPs, when correcting an incorrect quote, has some additional comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18855	Here, Mr. Vice President, I'd like to correct Mrs. Pusic's guilty allegations regarding the "Maestro" action. She says after that nothing happened. Let me still be allowed to say that after that, it doesn't turn out to be a breach of the Rules of Procedure. But since I witnessed what happened in 2001 selling our wood industry's trust fund today that doesn't work, you see by that weight as it says, we sold it, I warned as mayor that it was all wrong and nakaradno, who is guilty, the next minister, the gentleman who sold that wood industry, today is in... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18856	I'm a colleague of Mance's. This first part you started by correcting an incorrect quote, this second part isn't any more. Let's not do that, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18857	All right. In action, Maestro, so someone's been arrested, someone's guilty. And it's Mr... It's now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I'm saying it because I'm there and I want our public in Vrbovska to hear it, because now it's someone else's fault what happened there, not those who did it back then.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18858	But you can't do that through the correction of an incorrect quote. You can't do this part. A colleague of Maras. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18859	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, I'm here, a little while ago, but I can see that it's not going to be your hand, that you put order among the HDZ representatives, this is nothing, he didn't even mention what Mrs. Pusic found out, or what she misrepresented and said. Instead, she set an example in 2001 that had nothing to do with her exposure. So I'd like to ask you, if it doesn't go differently, start with the warnings. Because according to Rules of Procedure, you have the opportunity to give notice to a representative if he does not stick to the subject he is discussing in his speech. And Mr. Mance did not stick near the topic Mrs. Pusic discussed. So please introduce a little order among HDZ representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18860	I'll have all the representatives, not just one party, I've warned my colleague Mance that the other part, is not a correction of the incorrect allegations, but the first part was, the first part is. Club...... On behalf of the promoter, fine. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Vice-President Dr... Who else was there? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Excuse me. Was it a correction to an incorrect assumption? ... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18861	Dear Vice President, MP Pusic has stated that salaries are in stagnation. Just for her knowledge and fact, the social situation is difficult in Croatia, but for her knowledge, the minimum wage that was in 2003. Today, the average salary in the month 2003 was €3940, 2003, today is €5234 net. Mirovine, the average pension in 2003 was 1702 kuna, today it is 2119 kuna. So that's an incorrect quote. On the other hand, in your time as you shared power, wages were down 30% to 40%, and who about what, HNS on crime economically.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18862	Mr. Representative Vladimir Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18863	Dear Vice President, members of the government, I would like to correct Mrs. Pusic's allegations. It argued that the coverage of imports by export fell, so any data can be selectively observed as it fits. The fact is that this government is through the Ministry of Economy, e.g. in the County of Međimurje invested considerable resources in the economic zones, which ultimately resulted in an increase in the coverage of exports, so that it is 92% today and exports increased by 50%.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18864	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure of Ms. Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18865	I don't like to use it, but this is really too much, because there's a fellow injured the Rules of Procedure arguing that it corrects my claim of a fall in coverage of imports by exporting, and that's then listed some information about industrial zones in Međimurje, which is an absolute non-sequential and each other has nothing to do with it. Export coverage dropped by 3 percentage points from 48% to 45% of colleagues, and that with industrial zones or anything in Međimurje, has nothing to do with it. And since I've already taken the floor in response to my colleague Kunst's government's response, it says that the wages are in stagnation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18866	Oh, my dears. Vice President of the House, Mr. Agent Neven Mimica, on behalf of the motionary.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18867	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, in the debate that has been discussed so far, especially by the motionors, it has been further clarified and explained why the SDP on two topics requires discussion on the confidence of the Prime Minister, this concerns both the area of security and the area of economic status or the state of human standards, the standard of living in Croatia. I would start with what my colleague Pusic, speaking on behalf of the HNS club, has done on a good footing, as a consideration of the responsibility of the Prime Minister and in the third area, the area of European integration, or lagging behind in this area. So I'd just like to make that part more clear in a few words. It is often a question of why Croatia goes to the European Union in the first place, what are the advantages, what do we expect from that. And it's very difficult to sum up in a nutshell, because the reasons are certainly enough, these reasons, or the convenience and convenience of membership. However, we can generally say in a very short way that it is three fundamental objectives and three fundamental advantages of the European Union, which is political and democratic security and stability of the country, economic competitiveness and legal and social order, i.e. the rule of law, which includes personal security. Now, the question is whether either of these three areas or the three advantages of the European Union, is Croatia now close to achieving these advantages. We do not need and must not wait for membership into the European Union, so that we only have the advantages of membership for our members. And in these three areas, it certainly took a lot more to make it into a membership already prepared enough to simply withstand a collision with each other's competitiveness, not only economically but also political and democratic and legal and social competitiveness, which exists among the developed Member States of the European Union. Of course, in the process so far, both difficulties and problems have been crystallized along the way. The problems are some tied to the European side, to the side of our European partners. They played a new model of fuses that would prevent new extensions from repeating mistakes, failing to enter an unprepared country as was the case in the previous round. They were trying to find a politically correct answer that would equally apply to issues emerging in the negotiating process or the political process of joining the European Union for both now existing candidates negotiating for Croatia and Turkey at least at the beginning of the process. And individual member states have also introduced their bilateral problems or relations with Croatia into this multilateral framework of negotiations, which was quite unacceptable. And it also seems to me to me that for the Presidency, the European Union's concession presidency has not been in the first priority, so they have not motivated all the Member States to move quickly enough. If anything, Croatia must have had reason to be dissatisfied with the European side. But on our side the problems seemed to me much harder. And as the whole process is conducted under direct influence and direct supervision and direct directives of the Prime Minister then it is also the greatest responsibility for what lies on the Croatian side as a problem in the process itself. We had a government that was convinced that negotiations could go independently of reforms for a very long time. Probably until spring this year. We had a government that was more important when we enter the European Union than how we enter. It was more important for Croatia to enter the European Union than Croatia will enter the European Union. The whole thing, the whole thesis is twisted. It's not about reform. It's about lobbying and our attempts to get an early date. If the reforms had been continued, if they had been systematic then it would have made the date of entry unquestionable in itself. And not with a self-imposed date now seem to speed up reforms, speed up negotiations, create drama about whether or not we will reach autumn next year for the conclusion of negotiations. The following problems are therefore related to the failure of the entire previous mandate of the same government for reforms, for economic reforms, for reforms needed to meet European standards, for legislative reforms. In 4 years less European laws have been passed in this House than will be passed in this fifth year. Therefore, this mandate has indeed been missed in terms of European adaptation. A divorced role has been made for the coordinators and monitors of the process at the moment when two ministries, European integration and foreign affairs have joined together into one and also a negotiating team that works well for me in Brussels, has a good or good functioning in Brussels unlike its functioning in Croatia, in Zagreb where the relationship between the negotiating team and the Croatian institutions that have to make all adjustments is simply not working. So then these institutions remain undeveloped, remain unprepared, which is the main problem in what awaits us in closing chapters in the next period. I am also afraid that the political consensus on the European Union, which exists, which is unquestionable for us in the SDP, is also unquestioned for it to have its own bad side, which is that it has eliminated from political life and the public the necessary debate on the major topics of the European future and the big topics on Croatia's place in the European Union. No one in Croatia, perhaps because there is a general agreement that we should go to the European Union, no one is talking about what kind of European Union Croatia wants? That's not what we're talking about. And in Europe, that's exactly what the biggest debate is about. No one asks or talks about what Croatia thinks about the continuation of enlargement? What does he think of the borders of the enlargement of the European Union? No one is talking about what constitutional changes are needed in Croatia in order to function in the membership of the European Union. Thus, all this together simply slows down what has been objectively done so far, slows down because of this, this concept of approaching the European Union, which is forced by the Prime Minister. And we are simply in a situation today that, for example, 6 countries from that first wave of enlargement means half of them that have then negotiated have completed their accession negotiations, but also completed reforms and adjustments in two years and 10 months since the opening of negotiations. Croatia today ended in, finished the third year of negotiations, 3 years and a month we say today. It will probably take us four years and therefore responsibility and questioning the confidence of the Prime Minister should also focus on these issues of European integration and the way this government and this prime minister are leading these matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18868	Thank you. A few corrections of incorrect allegations. Ms. Representative Marija Buric-Pejcinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18869	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here it was from this topic, a series of incorrect allegations. I'll only name two. One of them is not important how but when the other one is not talking about what systematic changes we need in Croatia. So we need to look at one of the documents that we have discussed here in the House and adopted its legislative part. It's MPU. He speaks very clearly about what systematic changes should be made. And about whether it's an important speed or a quality we've been quite clear from the beginning. It has always been equally important for us, both speed and quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18870	And ma'am, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18871	Well, actually on the trail of these statements from counterpart Neven Mimica that the government is sending a message that they are not important reforms that are incorrect. Reforms are very important. We spend them every day and she spent them last term. And it doesn't matter how. It matters when. That's not true. I think you know very well yourself that you are not sitting with me on the Joint Parliamentary Committee, so I would still understand, but since you are sitting together and you know well what good way Croatia is towards European integrations, then it is clear that it is a completely incorrect and deplaced thesis. Secondly, the doubts that the EU wants Croatia and if we agree to further enlargements, we will discuss when we are in the European Union, I hope very soon because we will conclude negotiations next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18872	And Mrs. Representative Dubravka Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18873	Mr Vice President, I would also like to correct Mr Mimica's incorrect allegations that they are not important reforms but that it is an important speed. That's quite incorrect and then you entered your own contradiction when you said that the negotiating team is doing very well, and my question, or an explanation, of what a negotiating team can do if the government doesn't work. So the negotiating team does what the government does and the second one does, the second statement is that six countries in two years and I don't know how many negotiations have ended, and here it's left out to say that, that we are the first state to negotiate with standards and these countries didn't have... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18874	Thank you. ... Mr. Andrija Hebrang's club of representatives. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18875	Dear Mr. Vice President, the honorary representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us the interpretation of the SDP that we all agreed was legitimate and legitimately democratically the right of the opposition party. One of the political means of a normal fight. And in that sense absolutely and we accept, of course in a substantive sense we reject it for me to try and prove it here with our arguments, or to show it. I must honestly say that I am pleased that the debate is even though the topic is hot going on in one tolerated tone. We're a little bit stretching our Rules of Procedure, but there's still our dictionary at the border, the civilization border that this House deserves. I thank these colleagues, and on behalf of the club, I apologize in advance if perhaps at some late hours when we will be exhausted and some words will be below that level. I believe he won't. So, an apology in advance, even though I'm sure it won't. But as for the interpretation itself, I must admit that this morning I even expected that she might be withdrawn. Because the interpretation speaks of inaction in the area of security, economy and access to the European Union, and just the last days and the last hours, the consequences of the action have been seen, so the murderers of the terrible crime against little Luke Ritz, and those who were in a terrible way, have been convicted, in a monstrous way, of attacking Mr. Radenovic, and police have just brought in USKOK and ten who robbed the bank in Split. And a whole series of successes like that. I believed it would prove that there was an act, and the interpretation was directed against inaction. But that didn't happen, so then we're going with our political duel to see what we think is wrong in this interpretation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18876	My colleague Hebrang, you say, it's a comprehensive interpretation, but it's a formal debate about starting trust with the Prime Minister. So, it's not...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18877	Whose content is the launch of trust with the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18878	It's not about impellating.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18879	Interpletion is formally politically acceptable, but its content is of course rejected.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18880	But this isn't an impelation right now. This theme is not an interpretation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18881	But the interpretation is a method that required the replacement of the Prime Minister and was said...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18882	Yeah, but this isn't an impelation. Interpletion is a special parliamentary institute. This is the government's trust, the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18883	So, it's the right of opposition, I'm correcting the right of opposition to in any way seek the removal of the Prime Minister and the Government, and that right is legitimate, but we deny its content. Why do we deny her content? We disprove above all because of the dynamics in which this request takes place for the government to be replaced, because the current government shift would cause months of inaction at the state level, at the administrative level, inaction because of this would be followed by a multi-month pre-election campaign, because it would follow a long-term negotiations on the future coalition, etc. What would happen in these few months – 4.5.6 months of inaction. It would happen that as we change the driver, the chief driver of the state administration, the prime minister in order for the fast train of Europe to move away from us and become inconspicuous, so that the crime would be left without a real organized battle against him and that the entire orchestrated world system of combating the global crisis would also inevitably run away because of our inaction. It is therefore good to reject the content of this request, so that inaction would not indeed occur on the scene, and now justified against those data that have been presented, which are not correct, which are presented in the SDP's request to replace the government, namely Prime Minister Ivo Sanader. First, something needs to be said about the extremely poor security situation, I quote, “an extremely poor security situation. ” The security situation in perception is certainly not good, but that it is extremely bad it does not fit the truth and we as politicians other than perception must also consider the facts. The fact is that there have been several incredible crimes that culminated in one psychological shock of the state when a monster killed a young girl. We all know who it's about. It was Ivana Hodak, that it was one shock at the state level and at that moment you can see how strong the state can resist it and together without making it difficult for one who leads such a struggle to allow the perpetrators to be found as soon as possible and punished. A number of typical examples have been presented in this request. Fortunately, one part of them has already been solved. I mentioned the captured and punished attackers against Mr. Radenovic. That attack is mentioned here. On our Luke Ritz, who has already become a symbol of resistance to violence, I must also say that police with other services have prevented several other such beating attacks in Osijek and Split in the last few weeks. So there's an organized battle against crime and organized and individual and it wouldn't be good now based on our incredible negative emotions compared to what happened to make conclusions that would just allow for the inaction and that crime to spread and move forward. And for this reason, we have accepted a police report recently here only on the basis of the fact that in Croatia, police acts, and not by inaction, have resolved 73% of all cases, and therefore the Croatian police are in front of some police of other countries in which their inaction does not require the resignation of the government. So, 70 percent of the cases were solved. I'll just mention in Germany is getting rid of all these serious crimes somewhere around 55%. So it's not the result of inaction, it's the opposite of doing it. I would also mention here that during the period of the SDP government, the SDP coalition also had a number of such terrible killings that could be called organised crime. None of them have been resolved until today. It says that inaction was also in their government, and we didn't ask for a shift because of that inaction. We asked for a shift six years ago for the separation of one part, the possible separation of one part of Croatia from its territory. I'm talking about Mr. Racan's negotiations with our neighbours, our friends in Slovenia. But we didn't do this kind of action by calling for inaction, but we just wanted to make it constructive for us, with opposition policy, to allow those who lead to take positive steps, so I'm going to remind you what happened. On March 22, 20001, Vjeko Sliško was killed in the flower square in Zagreb in front of an audience, passersby. They could have been killed by a dozen. Disdaining the public was endless, but we didn't ask for the prime minister's resignation. After that, the killer of the late Slick's bodyguard was killed. So obviously an organized criminal mile. We didn't ask for the Prime Minister's resignation back then. On January 23, 2003, Marco Slicko was killed, the killer was not found. On October 24, 2003, Vlado Bagaric was killed, the killer was not found. I won't count on it. Tradition and the list are unfortunately longer. But I repeat, with the constructive approach of the opposition, we did not ask for the resignation of those most responsible at the time to solve these cases. Several decisions have also taken place in the coalition government that have not made much of a contribution to overall security. Let's remember firing a few thousand people from the police. Let's remember the disbanding of the Police Academy, etc. All of this favored those who are on the other side of the law, who are on the side of crime, and we did not therefore seek the resignation of the Prime Minister. Therefore, the arguments here are individual, but they are not acceptable for the overall situation, and the arguments do not prove indemnity, but precisely an act, which I have proved by finding these criminal actors in recent events. Secondly, I quote: "We are asking for the prime minister's resignation because of the growing economic situation in the Republic of Croatia. The prices of food products, energy, rising inflation, unemployment, duty have increased." We can look at statistical data through one or another prism, but the only prism of statistical indicators is to compare it to the same or similar data from other countries. The crisis is global. The whole world joins in an orchestra against such a crisis, and when you look at the economic indicators of the Republic of Croatia, some of them are getting worse, but far less worse than other countries in the region and most of the world's countries. We're all witnessing that Dow Jones has fallen to 30%, which means bear rule, the macroeconomics know what that means. These are the periodic declines of the world economy when the alarm is, not for one country, not for one continent, but the alarm for the whole world is on fire. That's exactly what we're going through right now after a few decades. The Swiss banks are going down. Who asked for the resignation of the prime minister of the Swiss state because UBS bank received 10 billion euros in aid from the state? Who asked for the Swiss prime minister's resignation because a Swiss bank loan takes the same 10 billion to keep it from going bankrupt? Switzerland, not Croatia. I wonder what now that the monetary crisis is overrun by the real sector, that means the economy when Germany, how some day they predicted to reduce their GDP growth to 0 or even negative, the optimists say only 0.2%, and we still predict our projection by over 4% and on solid foundations. Therefore, the economy of Croatia does not shake, it is only the result of a major global earthquake and this world earthquake is unfortunately reflected in much stronger economies than it is ours because they are much older. What to say is that in Hong Kong, there is going to be a bankruptcy of 30% of small employers and over 2 million workers, and so far around 20 million people in this crisis have lost their jobs in the world. What about the jobs in Croatia? What about the environmental indicators in the region? Here's some information that will at least ease what we read in our request to replace the Prime Minister. So Crobex has been a negative part, of course, for the past 2, 3 months. He was recovering, going up and down, that's typical of these global crises. Slovenian indices were all also negative during that time. In Serbia, the index came to minus 50%, the stock exchanges of some countries were closed because they went below the allowed minimum, which did not happen to the Croatian stock exchange. However, there are also positive indicators of the long term. For example, in September, the increase in stock traffic is twice as high as August, trade in bonds 8.5 times higher. I'll just say what happened to the employment. Not in 2008, in the first nine months of 2009, so now that it's typical of our situation, the first nine months of 2008, the number of unemployed was reduced by 9.7% or 23 thousand 974 was less than compared to the first eight months of 2007. So it is a Croatian response to the economic crisis and Croatia is definitely less wounded than most other countries. Wrong data that car sales dropped 22%, here's a printout from a portal called the Auto Portal, so you'll see. The increase in number in September 2008, the increase in number in August 2008, the loss of new vehicles imported compared to those a year ago. The decline in the number of imports of second-hand vehicles because in the meantime we have passed regulations by which we restrict the import of used vehicles for ecological reasons. So a positive step, not as negative as statistical data can show it here. But what we should definitely say here is that on the third plan of the request for the resignation of the Government, it is that Croatia will not enter the European Union until 2014, a political defetism, we have experienced new praises from the European Union these days, the Prime Minister, Dr Ivo Sanader, made it clear that we will end negotiations and enter NATO in the coming year, so these are successes, that is doing, that is not inaction. And in the end, you have to say and point out another big thing. It is precisely thanks to the strong fiscal policy of this government, of course and the great contribution of the Croatian National Bank, that Croatia will come out least damaged from this globally great problem called the global crisis, and that is why I thought that we too would join a major world orchestra that orchestrates the fight against such a crisis by bringing new measures. Unfortunately, we have a dissonant voice, a solo voice that does not allow us to deal with the drug against this global crisis, but rather to deal with ourselves. That voice is dissonant, he plays a false stock and our recommendation is not to listen to it, but to move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18884	Thank you. A few corrections of incorrect allegations. First, Mr. Representative of Shima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18885	Thank you very much. It would take at least as long as his colleague Hebrang said to correct everything he said wrong. Only three. My colleagues, dear, what's neurotic? Just three. So it's incorrect that it wasn't solved during Racan's government, not one murder, it's incorrect that the Police Academy was disbanded and the number of officers fired was incorrect. My colleague Hebrang, I'm surprised you've succumbed to the media these few days. Yesterday in a diary, you had the wrong information about the number of murders during Racan's government where the '99 murders were collected. where murder cases and even attempted murder are being solved. Today you have in one week also, on six sides of a hill of lies. I can't imagine it happening, but I'm not worried about it. I'm only worried about one fact, and that's whether or not these data is being haired for the public, that they may not be haired for the prime minister and the new minister. Because if that's true, then it's a devastating fact, because they won't be able to make their right moves.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18886	Mr. Representative Ranko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18887	Respect to all. I'd say just for a little while. It is in Mr Hebrang's sentences that this means mentioning the case of the murder of the Sliška Age in the 2001 Flower Square, after four attempts at killing the same person in the 1990s, at a time when the Croatian mafia in the words of HDZ ministers did not exist, it was realized and solved, I hope that he knows it. Just as it's settled, the question of his be your guard. I hope that didn't upset him and that there was no need for him to ask for resignations in that case. I would only remind him of Rodic, Pejnović, Hodak, Zečević, Liscar, Pokovac, Krasnici, Hrvoje and Domagoj Lesic. It's not an area of competition. Don't do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18888	And Mr. Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18889	Thank you very much. Here's a colleague of Hebrang's said a lot of incorrect allegations, I'll make it right just two. The first is that there is only one voice in Croatia that, as a view, interferes with HDZ's successful solution to things. It's not about that, colleague Hebrang. There's a lot more votes. It's about several Croatian parties. Today you could hear in the Croatian Parliament that won over a million Croatian votes in the elections. So it is not one vote but more than a million votes that requires that you change your policy, or that the HDZ in some way does not lead Croatia in the right way. And what you said, "Let's move on," to me it's more like "let's go down" as Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18890	Okay. Thank you very much. Peace, please. Two notices. The president of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals, Igor Dragovan, cancelled a meeting of the Committee called today in 14 hours and the President of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, Ranko Ostojić, informs that today's session is scheduled for tomorrow at 13:30 at the "Eugen Quaternik" hall with an earlier agenda. On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Representative Zoran Milanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18891	Thank you. No mob, organised crime, criminal union is stronger than the state if the state doesn't want it, doesn't tolerate or close its eyes. Nowhere. And many democracies, in their formative periods, have been going through periods of this kind of condition that we are in today. The determination and power of politics to deal with it was an answer to the question of where, and above all where, first where and then where, so societies go. We have heard here during the debate on several occasions that the SDP is seeking responsibility, i.e. leaving, the government's resignation. No, I don't. Prime Minister to the Constitution. Prime Minister. So I suggest that those with dilemmas read the Constitution to see what is written in the Constitution and what kind of responsibility and from whom can be asked, or from the Government as a whole, prime minister or individual minister. From the Prime Minister. What are the political consequences of possibly the success of such an initiative, that's another thing. Probably early elections. Likely, none of the majority, no government would survive that. The European democratic practice, above all, in parliamentary democracies, knows a number of cases that prime ministers in situations of crisis, in situations of failure, disappointment, recognition of impotence have receded. It is not the same in England that has a more stable system, in the UK, it is different in Scandinavia, Italy, Spain and Austria where the prime ministers have stepped down. But it's just a theory. So we stress, not the government because we said and we will repeat, this is no longer the HDZ government. This is the government where the prime minister brought people outside HDZ, 250 thousand HDZ members have no one to deal with as a politician with the profession, and thank God he has the professions, to deal with the problems that Croatia has and in which we have been brought about because of claims, inactions. By listening to the representative of the HDZ Club, the image and the impression are much better than what we see and which we are allowed to say, we believe that most Croatian citizens also see it. The impression is that it is very nice in Croatia, that the police and the judiciary are doing their job. So did it really have to come to scenes like this and events to start doing their job, and we'll see how they started doing it? I don't think it's correct, I think it's wrong to cite cases of murders from earlier years of this decade that are some kind of transferred inflation to express myself economically from the '90s. And secondly, no matter what every murder is a murder and every life is a life, in those situations people from certain circles died. Murder is murder. What we've been seeing for the past year are the injuries of people like you, like your children, relatives, friends, neighbors. It's a new condition. It's a new fear. Some reckonings and some murders will never be able to be prevented and defiled, some investigations will never be completed. The problem was that a series of terrible things had to happen in order for someone to act or create a vision of action. And I ask again, why are the ministers leaving? Why? For good work? Because of previous activities? The politics of colleagues and colleagues, will, determination, the risk of fighting something, of being unpopular but of doing something, and the profession is always there. And how many competent lawyers, lawyers, judges, professors are in Croatia. There's enough for such a small country, smart enough. It's the same thing at the Home Office. And we ask again, why are they leaving? Why do they suddenly leave until yesterday good and successful? We haven't even heard the answer to that question, let alone the full answer. Maybe we can hear him by the end of the day. Finally, the European Union or before the European Union has an economy. With solid macroeconomic indicators, with a low deficit according to the state budget indicators, which is something only an irresponsible person could criticise, Croatia has a terrible rebalancing, a terrible imbalance between imports and exports. Croatia produces little, exports poorly. And Croatia, when compared to those with whom we can only compare, which is not Germany but Central Europe, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland, Slovenia, Hungary, Croatia has a worrying little coverage of imports by export. Croatia spends more than it creates and this is a serious problem. This problem can be amortised by the great Americas who have left production, which shakes with the world, technology, financial services, which has 300 million inhabitants, who deal their government bonds around the world, in the Far East, but it also comes at a charge. And what are we going to charge? What are we gonna charge for? These are the questions they asked for answers five years ago. In ten years we need to know what makes us invulnerable, us 4.5 million. It's not there. Union. We're late. It's taking too long. You have noticed that so far we have not sharpened the subject, that we have said that we are optimistic and today I want to believe that Croatia will open and close the required number of chapters in the next less than one year. And that's something we all have to fight for when we're out of Croatia and talking to those who have influence on it. But that's one side of the medal. The other side of the medal is that we have really done, that we have implemented reforms, which is why we are at European level today. What are we doing at European level? We will never spread defetism or fear that the European Union is some kind of horned monster. No, we'll do it a hundred times. In the European Union, if we put aside where the European Union is sovereign as a legislator, as a law maker and ministers of the European Union and the bodies of the European Union are laying down regulations. Beyond that, everything remains what Croatia does to a sovereign and independent state and nation. Criminal legislation, that's our thing. Civil, spatial plans, investments, so that does not determine Brussels. This is what all Croatian politics establish locally and centrally. And Brussels can't be an excuse, but we're late, we're really late. Since 2007, we have come to 2009 and if we discount the responsibility of some of our neighbours, partners, a little stumbling in Croatia, that will be in the future, we are responsible, the government is responsible. Since we hold that the government, and especially the HDZ government, is no longer politically established because there is no courage and responsibility to take over these things, it is the responsibility of the prime minister. So the prime minister, not the government. Prime Minister, Mr. Ivo Sanader, who may still be back in this warm place today, not the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18892	Thank you. A few corrections. Mr. Representative Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18893	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am correcting my colleague Milanovic's claim that motivation is their democratic approach. That's not true. It is true, in fact, that this is a classic example of trying to come to power without democratic Usus and practice i.e. without the support of the citizens, and that also means asking a question, Mr Milanovic, what do you want to establish instead of the will of the people? It needs to be worried about all the democratic forces in the country, because this is the politics you're actually doing. You're giving the mob legitimacy, and that's actually the roughest methods for someone to change power when they remember, and that's not democracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18894	Mr. Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18895	Thank you, Mr. President. I am correcting the incorrect allegations of counterpart Milanovic who said HDZ does not have a qualified candidate, and for that reason he brought here such and such candidates. So, first of all, it's completely incorrect. On the other hand, it's particularly incorrect if you're going to say it's a weakness of the government. So this is the government's power not to be burdened by who is a party member and whether it is even a member, but whether it works and whether it can work well for Croatia. Thus, it is an entirely incorrect assumption. And I would really suggest you, I mean I listened really carefully and respect what you were saying, but really the SDP in this assembly, I would say in this arena of tattoos and he lost his breath. Madam president of the club, it would be nice to throw... In this ring and to actually end this fight, and to move on to other more important issues. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18896	Okay. Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18897	Your Honor, Vice President. Representative Milanovic said the government has no courage to fight these problems, etc. Not to quote it. That's not true. The prime minister, the Prime Minister, responded immediately and firmly to certain solutions in the fight against this crime, these crimes I believe the SDP is really using for political morbidity in this way we are discussing. And that was supported by the entire public, only not the SDP leadership.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18898	Mr. Representative Andrew Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18899	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Milanovic, it is not exactly as you said a number of bad things had to happen to start working. With that you admitted that he had started working, but if he had started doing as you claim when these terrible murders happened, believe me, the results wouldn't have been for many years. It's precisely because he started working earlier by organizing the structure of the law enforcement system, etc. The results of the investigation have been positive lately. Secondly, Croatia has a terrible imbalance in exports and imports. There is, if only goods are seen, but if you are looking at world statistics where goods are included and exports of services, and Croatia has goods, tourism services, telecommunications services, maritime services, etc., then coverage is 87%. If they only looked at the export of goods, Greece would only have exports covered by 37%, and it is believed to be one of the most successful. So that's a statistical indicator that you didn't exactly present.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18900	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Representative Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18901	Here's the first time I've ever used this institute in this House. By the way, I'm calling you... Injury of the Rules of Procedure. [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]] So, normally, I invite you to motivate MPs to use the replicas institute more. That's fairer. However, to return to what was injured by the respected representative Hebrang, who wrongly corrected the nonexistent claim, or wrongly corrected what I said, which he later completely turned in the following way. He did not deny the claim that Croatia has a terrible trade imbalance, it did not deny it, but went into interpretation of what Croatia is getting from the field of services. It is the correct information, but my data is correct and has not denied it with anything, and then let it say what is the Croatian balance of payments deficit as a result of the lack of money in the country.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18902	Okay. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18903	I use it for the first time, but according to my Rules of Procedure, I refer to Article 209. Col. Milanovic did not refer to the Rules of Procedure according to this article, so I ask that his discussion be deleted from the minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18904	And I'd like to clear both of the Rules of Procedure's injuries out of the record. You see there's a doubt about what it's all about, is an incorrect allegation, a fact of fact. ... And you have a right there can actually be better solved through the debate. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Then we're not going to go into formal legal dilemmas, because it's about correcting the incorrect allegations, claims. Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18905	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would correct the incorrect quote of counterpart Milanovic, who said Croatia spends more than it creates. If that were true, Croatia would not be able economically in the last three years to reduce the amount of public debt in the total gross domestic product from 48.7% to 42.2% and would not reduce foreign debt by 85m euros in the first 7 months of this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18906	Mr. Representative Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18907	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am correcting the incorrect allegations of MP Milanovic, but less because of him, more because of all the Croatian public who, in a negative context, commented not to adopt... plans. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Just the other way around. In the mandate of this Government and the one that went through the legal acts, there are a large number of spatial plans and GUPs that are based on this and the prerequisite for further development of economic development, working zones, and everything in the context of employment, increasing social gross product, so I ask that it be recorded as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18908	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18909	... What's said is said. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] It's on. That even when Croatia enters the European Union, the problems of spatial plans and what we are building and where we are building, will be our business and our responsibility, and not Brussels, that is all that is said. I know very well what I said. This is a simple factory. Please, we can go on like this for 15 minutes. You can't argue like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18910	Yeah. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18911	209. Andria, 209, but that's crucial. It's crucial and now the nation is calm. 209.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18912	Indeed, it would be a violation of the Rules of Procedure if it were to be corrected by a non-existent alleged, non-existent claim. If your claim was that if Agent Turk was correcting something that you didn't make, then that would be it. I can't do that, I'd have to, I'd do a thorough follow-up, listen in detail, listen carefully, and assuming that the claim is correct, then it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Assuming that the claim b is incorrect, then it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Representative Joseph Leko's injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18913	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your creative and extensive interpretations of Article 209 completely eliminates the spirit of Rules of Procedure and divorce debate. It's obviously a thought-out interpretation, because it's not about talking about the essence of things, it's about getting a nap and turning it into corrections to incorrect allegations that don't state any facts, Mr. Vice President, and that's the point of correction. Don't let that happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18914	I thank you for your compliment, and you are... as an experienced and highly esteemed colleague of mine, a lawyer and a friend when breaking the Rules of Procedure you should indicate which provision of the Rules of Procedure You missed that. [[I said 209.]] No, you're not. You said it was me. Why do we have in this breach of the Rules of Procedure to mention the article one, not to mention the specific article. ... The whole Rules of Procedure. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] This is a great contribution from my colleague Anticevic. Deputy Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. And there's another one. Okay. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18915	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll fix it, Mr. Milanovic said when we talk about the Union we're late. It's just not true. And the evidence is that several months ago there was an objection both to the Croatian government and Croatian negotiators to negotiate too quickly and to question quality. The other thing is we have a lot of lawyers, economists, that's what the gentleman said to have candidates and others. We in Croatia do not have enough lawyers, economists, or highly educated people. And we're working on making it more than 8% to get to 20%. And one more thing I have to say, Mr. Milanovic, who rarely sits here in the Parliament, so he didn't learn that when he speaks as a promoter, we can't give a replica. And don't ask us to be correct and give the replica, when we are not able to do this to Mr Milanović and you should have learned that, not like this, to impress the Croatian public as you are almighty, you know everything. That's not true. You know very little.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18916	Deputy Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18917	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here is very short, a few words on behalf of the Government, since here we are just before the motion of Mr. Representative Milanovic and SDP President heard as one of the fundamental arguments why the Prime Minister Ivo Sanader should be replaced by the fact that as Mr. Milanovic again said, this is no longer the HDZ Government. I would like to remind you that since the start of the term of office, of course, because he was the president of the HDZ, Dr Ivo Sanader, because HDZ won the elections, so I would like to remind myself of that fact and, of course, had the greatest coalition potential, and since the start of this government's mandate, members of the Croatian government are members of the HDZ, HSS, HSS, and the SDSS. So that's the fact that I believe here's going to be accepted by both members and members of the SDP club. And secondly, since there are different interpretations that we have heard from the SDP Club for one of the three reasons why they propose to replace the Prime Minister, which is to negotiate to join the European Union. Just before, Mr Mimica said that the government is fast, that it is more important for us when and not how it learns in the European Union. However, Mr Milanovic now says that we are late in the negotiations, so here I would like the SDP Club to agree on what is actually the position of the SDP Club. As for the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you know that we started, as Mr Milanovic said, in the past term, nothing has been done, I would like to remind you that the negotiations have started in the past term and that the honour was given to the Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. And as for the good route on which the government is and in fact Croatia as a whole, the President of the European Commission, Mr Barroso, spoke as you know about the calendar for the conclusion of the negotiations next year. Here, so much for the facts and just the fact that in June we submitted the verification to the European Commission for all the criteria, and also the negotiating positions for chapter 31 of Chapter 33 and that we are working on these two chapters. Here, please let these facts simply be accepted at the SDP club. And I repeat again, HDZ has really won the election. As you know, we've had... more, but because of the ability of the president of HDZ and the prime minister and the greatest coalition potential, because we understood our partners, because we talked to them and of course because we together made a programme for the next four years that we will achieve, and then I believe we will go back to the elections and win again. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18918	Thank you. Club...... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay. Proposer, Mr. Representative, Vice President of the House, Neven Mimica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18919	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister insists on facts, and therefore it would be good and careful enough to monitor and listen to the facts proposed by the motionors. Therefore, I would just like to explain that there is no difference in attitudes, assessments and proposals of the SDP Club, related to dynamics and content, accession negotiations with the European Union. Because it was quite obvious that we and the president of the SDP were on behalf of the promoter and I on behalf of the promoter that we said the same thing. If we had said that the government had a goal primarily as soon as possible, as quickly as possible, it could be translated into thinking that we were fast in the negotiations, although we did not say it directly. But to ignore and slow down reforms. And that is exactly the content of the remark that we have according to Prime Minister Sanader's responsibility as the main motivator and one that determines the concept, the negotiating concept in European integration. Therefore, for us, the government is fast in negotiations and slowing down in reforms, and that is why neither reform unless they speed up can be the basis for the negotiations to be closed. And the very fact that so far only three chapters have been closed in three years of negotiations shows that reforms are so slow that they do not allow accelerated reforms, accelerated negotiations, and that they do not allow these negotiations to take place with such rapid dynamics that the government and all of us in Croatia would like to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18920	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect alleged Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18921	I thank Mr. Vice President, I would be happy to replicate, but the Rules of Procedure do not allow me to do so, so I will correct once again the incorrect assumption that the government is neglecting and slowing down reforms. That's incorrect. My colleague Mimica, all the laws we've passed, this year there are so far 90 laws passed, over the past years another 80s or 100s, etc. So, everyone is together in the service and reforms approaching the Croatian Union, there is no slowdown, and that is not what the government is doing. How now, what are you talking about? What kind of slowdown? Well, you are witnessing the European Commission's commendation that Croatia is making excellent progress in its negotiations and that it is doing great what is under it. We've fulfilled all the standards. It's not up to us, I think you said well that it's not all about us. That's where I agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18922	And Mrs. Representative Marija Buric Pejcinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18923	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here I would correct the incorrect allegations of Vice President Mimica saying that in three years, only three chapters have been closed for not implementing reforms. We all know that the fact that chapters are being closed differently now than they were before is the only consequence that a new system has been introduced which the European Commission itself, or the European Union itself, did not know how to deal with. And if that were the case, it would be very soon when we close a lot of new chapters in which we have fulfilled the standards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18924	Thank you. Mr. Representative Josip Friščić, Vice-President of the House, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18925	Dear Mr. President, Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Surely, the setting of demands and the desire to debate in this highest House, with regard to trust in those we have chosen here is both legitimate and democratic and part of the debate that was led here, I can support that which speaks in this direction that when the world, and we are not an island, we are part of that world facing certain problems, difficulties that will have long-term consequences that will then well and need us to open up such a debate, to hear each other and to all look for solutions together. The matter of trust to the government, this current government, I know that it will be said that a question of responsibility and trust has been raised to the prime minister, but he is the captain of the team. And if there's a question to the captain, then I'm also asking the HSS Club, the whole team. I would like as much of my debate as possible and I am glad because in many segments it is both tolerated and going in that direction to talk as much about where we are today, what are the problems and difficulties, which solutions are offered and what is expected tomorrow. What awaits us is what we expect from the Prime Minister and the Government. What the citizens of Croatia expect from us, in which direction and ways and messages send and move to make their first issue a matter of security so that their safety is greater. And how that security that was certainly in a significant part was also a reason to seek such a debate is personal security, the safety of citizens on the street, in his home, in his environment where he lives, where he resides, where he moves, the safety of him and his children. But it is certain that this debate cannot be avoided either, and it has not avoided and avoided other security issues. What about work security? The security of work, getting paid? Family security? What is it and how is it that measures, moves, and where are we today when it comes to and in the overall national security? And when I talk about it, just to remind myself, it's one of the two or three fundamental issues or tasks that you and the Government and Parliament both have and I believe all of us together because there was a consensus that we left behind to create such an atmosphere that Croatia is a safe country. Surely our trip to NATO, surely those sentences that were spoken only a few meters from here where we are sitting and the messages that were given at the visit of the President of the United States of Croatia, let anyone who thinks they can resist our borders get rid of the dead. That's progress. It's a message. It's a message to us living here. It is a message to those who want to come and come as visitors, as tourists but also to those who have capital, who want to come to Croatia and who want to develop these activities, want to do business, want to invest. After all, they want to make money. And it's both human and fair. It's one of their basic motives that they want to come. There was also a dilemma and a question, was even spoken rhetorically whether the mafia was stronger than the state? I'm sure we'll see. I'm 100 percent convinced, and I believe you these days are clearing up and lighting up the murder of a young graduate. I believe he'll be rid of the murder and the young girls. Whether there's a mob behind it or not, then we'll know. But if it stands then the government's shift, the prime minister's shift would be the mob's victory. And how is the mob responsible? I believe it's responsible the right way. With determination, strengthening certain services and sending messages that we will also through regulators and through means contribute to strengthening services, raising their expertise and equipment because let us not forget and they are being equipped and prepared and trained. And it is our duty, I believe that we will all create such conditions together for the functioning of our services. What is pointed out here is that it may or may not actually be said to be a fire measure is a matter of material security. We are often, and we are ready to create a picture of a nation of wasteful people who spend more than they create and we do not want to highlight the fact that our citizens in banks have savings of more than 130 billion kunas. That's more than our national budget this year. And certainly what they were acting like, and these are the referendums, they're referendums without going to the polls because if they didn't believe in security and saving, no matter what they told me in the Parliament, they'd be lines and they'd go into collapse and the government and we'd have problems together and we'd be asking ourselves what to do at that point and what moves to make. But they have shown confidence in both this system and those who guarantee that their savings are safe, that their savings are safe, and therefore I do not agree with all those who think or say that this is a one-time fire measure because our goal is to create as much as possible, but also to create personal security through savings, and we have withdrawn the right measure that is to protect what people have created and brought into banks. What, what, and what moves did this government make on the economic agenda? What are their consequences, and in what direction is it going? I certainly belong and believe, regardless of the party colors, that everyone would like to and that we all advocate that our economic growth will be greater. That certain processes take place faster. But again, here and in that field, we need to be realistic. We need to see what happens elsewhere, what moves are being drawn and whether there is still room for new measures, new moves, new incentives for those we expect and want to be developmentists, are the creators of new jobs for the existence of themselves and those in those places to ensure the safety of their families. And when we come to that, all we have to do is look at which direction and how were the government's moves, the economy's ministry, and how much funds went to the entrepreneurial zones, to create conditions for new jobs, and what are the effects? Looking from the level, to be a little localist of my county where I've been mayor for years I can say that ten years ago we had an economy structure where seven economic operators accounted for 76% of the economy. In the past year, they represent 49%, and secondly, the new one is a small and medium-sized enterprise that certainly without the government's incentives to the zones, to entrepreneurs, without their faith that through these measures they can successfully do not achieve it, and it is not an isolated, isolated environment. There are many such environments in Croatia, and in fact it is our strength to observe through the way and track achievements or dissatisfaction that has not been achieved anymore. You can always do more, but you need to be realistic and realistic about what has been achieved. It is not today except through the balance sheets touched the sector, because it is now the main two sectors in observing the world economy. We can see that those processes where there were traffic logs, whatever letters they called the financial industry that it was stealing. Because with many, it was actually finding a way to get bread without a distraction. I want to talk about what we did in that sector where bread is made with the hoard, because someone can love Pakretić and Schuker as ministers or not to love. But in the first four months, one prepared measures and solutions, and he paid more than two-and-a-half billion in payments to our family economies, and if it hadn't been for us to have a record harvest of corn, we wouldn't have solved the issue of sufficient amounts of wheat and a series of other cultures that we picked up this year and that our family economies... I know there are problems. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] People want more. Through this, we need to observe whether we fit into processes somewhere, because many people say where we are compared to others. And when I have touched corn in all of this, then surely we will all welcome together through the government to raise the incentives to European level, which is 300 euros per hectare, and to make the price a stock market in Budapest. Then it is business and management in a European way. I'm saying this for example in one, in a dominant segment that has to have a consequence for itself after that, and these days it's on its way. If the raw materials go 25% down, then I believe the food must go down. If she is one of the significant factors in the survival basket, then the cost of living must also be. But to me, that's important, that's what I draw attention to. I think we should talk about this, and that we should have talked more about this third issue, about the process of negotiations on the way to the European Union a few days ago we talked here. Perhaps we were all both soft and over-tolerant about what was happening to us. Because this year it confirms that the government and individual ministries have prepared and negotiated positions and clearly assessed where we are looking for adjustments, delays in application and our specificities. But equally, we were from some of our neighbours in the negotiation blockade because they wanted to solve their bilateral matters through the form of pressure on Croatia that at all costs, by keeping pace, we must give in. And I am grateful to those who did not give in because we have shown how we approach the negotiations, in which way we hold to calling it my dignity, and we have also sent a clear message to the world that was the reasons why certain processes did not go faster and when it comes to the HSS club as part of the ruling coalition we will not vote for the change of prime minister, or impeachment of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18926	Thank you. Proposer, Mr. Representative Ranko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18927	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, honourable ministers, State Secretary. I would first of all refer to this part where we actually received the words of the coalition partner Mr Fristic, who, on behalf of the CNS, apologized to the HSS about being allowed to face problems and I agree. That was why in the fifth month we asked to talk in this particular part of the discussion in this highest House of Democracy in the Republic of Croatia. That's when it was rejected, it was moved from the side. Unfortunately, if it must happen really cruel events to finally come to what is called a debate in the Croatian Parliament on the state of security. The reason why we talked about a team captain like you rightly noticed is because citizens expect MPs to be those who control the government, who control its work, and who ask questions about the responsibility of the head of government don't go to the hands or the mafia, or anyone else, if they claim something's wrong. It is a bad message if it is trying to call the Croatian public or accuse the SDP of politicizing. In fact, only seven days after we had a debate about the state of security, we experienced confirmation of what we were talking about. The Prime Minister himself made moves, and we came into a situation where everything that was mocked in this House, which was said not to be true, that there was no incompetence we actually experienced that things were true and today we are calling for consensus. What is true, we would be right that all those who say it is necessary in such situations to advocate joint action. But how do you build this joint action based on neglecting the largest opposition party? If you weren't interested in 5 months before we talked about what was going to happen, and I don't agree with Mr Fristic in that part that evidence of possible future security is in a situation that we can expect with the arrival of US President Bush and NATO, exactly in that part of the foreign situation, exactly for those who are entrepreneurs from outside, exactly for all those who expect this to be no longer a rotting area, and when we talk about that military security, that's where they can agree. But what we were talking about, we were talking about the personal security of citizens, about creating the atmosphere of the anti-crime, anti-violent climate we were looking for, and that's what we have to do here. This is neither Bush nor the one who will be president tomorrow, nor will do this to us, nor will he help us in that part, because Croatia has not done anything by entering NATO alone unless it meets NATO standards, and NATO's standards know exactly the category, which is respecting the rule of law among other things. What's very important to me is in a way that we don't ignore certain facts, and I'd look back on the part that you were saying in the economic part because it's also important to me. The prerequisite for any strengthening of crime is the situation of sociality, and we talked about it when we warned that the best way to fight crime is to strengthen it, I will now say the wealth, life and standard of citizens of this country. It's the best form and the most effective form of fighting crime. Unfortunately, all the data says we're going down on that plan. We can now withdraw questions and external crises, but the fact is next. In Croatia, only 15% of people save. I am pleased to hear this information about the billions found in the savings accounts of Croatian citizens, hundreds, all honours, but this belongs only to 15% of Croatian citizens who have the opportunity to have such savings. Otherwise, concerns about banks, I wouldn't point out. Why wouldn't I? I think the citizens first of all did one thing, which is that they showed confidence in the governor of the National Bank who also passed what he had been through when he warned about the situation that was about to happen. What's most important, I can understand that coalition partners also take responsibility, it's fair and good on their part to say that they are together responsible for the situation that happened to us. It's a normal thing for me, but I'm going to repeat the words from the beginning, we're looking for the responsibility of the team captain for the reason that those problems we warned about were ridiculed, we've been in a situation where we're trying to say no, it's not like that, so that sad events happen. And Mr. Friscic, just to end the murder of Luke Ritz, with congratulations to all those who solved it, above all to journalists who did police work. What is very important to me, unfortunately, is not a mob murder and whether the mafia is stronger in Croatia than the state, we will come to another situation. I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18928	Thank you. A few corrections of incorrect allegations. First, Mr. Representative Krešimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18929	Dear Mr. Vice President, I am correcting Mr. Ostojic's incorrect allegations that "in solving all these problems you are neglecting the biggest opposition party," a quote. Mr. Stayer, that's not true. You're Mr. Standing Chairman of the National Security and Internal Policy Committee. You're responsible if there's a responsibility, then there's your responsibility. On that committee you had the opportunity to launch all those professional and important discussions that could improve the system of national security and the internal security system in the Republic of Croatia. However, you have not also done so when you seek other people's responsibilities, when you seek someone else's responsibility you must also be aware of your own responsibilities as chairman of the Committee on National Security and Internal Policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18930	Second Amendment, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18931	Dear Vice President, I think it's an incorrect assumption that we're not interested in what the president of the SDP says. Since I'm very interested, I'd also like to ask the president of the SDP to explain it to this house, since all the media has already passed on when he said that the hooligan is not only in the stadium, but also in the council. I think it would be good for the president of the SDP to say what he meant by that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18932	Third Amendment, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18933	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, it is a completely incorrect claim that only 15% of Croatian citizens save on bank accounts. It's a completely incorrect and deplaced claim. Only if you take shares of 800,000 citizens have at least shares. If we're going to talk about current accounts, but we're going to talk about savings. I'm sure a million and a half citizens have savings one way or another. So, a completely incorrect claim and an incorrect claim that 15% of Croatian citizens, please. Such a claim is indeed totally unacceptable and incorrect that 15% of Croatian citizens have about 140, or 134 billion savings in banks. This information is true that Croatian citizens have 134 billion kuna, but it is not entirely 15% of Croatian citizens. It is a far, far-reaching number of Croatian citizens who make their savings come true in Croatian banks.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18934	Next correction, Mr. Representative Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18935	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I also wanted to correct these 15%, so that only 15% of the population in Croatia could save. I think that number is much bigger, and if we're going to talk about saving, we should all be saving for environmental reasons from the current further. You still said your initiative in the Parliament was mocking here. That's not true. No one made fun of your positive and good initiatives. Perhaps one of the councilmen here in the assembly was making fun of your bare desires to tear down... /The speaker was turned off and turned back on./... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18936	Next, Mr. Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18937	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will correct Mr. Ostojic's incorrect allegations where he claimed that journalists were the ones who did the police work. That's absolutely incorrect. Professional police officers did their job, tracked down those who committed the murders, and I'd like to point out that those professionals who didn't come from political circles like you came to the Split administration during the coalition government.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18938	Mr. Representative and Vice President, Josip Friscic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18939	Mr. Vice-President, the data that 134 billion, I am correcting myself because I said about 130, but Mr. Finance tells me 134 billion kuna is the saving of Croatian citizens, it would be a frightening division of our society if it were really true that around 15% of Croatian citizens have and it is available because they would be wondering what is with the 85%. But surely he also knows how many of those who, through current accounts, never raise everything, receive salaries, pensions, 800 thousand are shareholders, and that is also a form of savings and certainly that the data presented is not correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18940	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18941	209th Mr. President. That's where the quote is corrected and it's said, it's not true that it's 15%, and you don't know what it is. And the argument that it's not true that 15 is equal to this, it's not true that it's 15 because you see it would still be impossible to do that. So listen, if you tolerate it as a correction to the wrong quote, then we can all other institutions, let's just argue here... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18942	You're making a mistake, fellow Stazic. The President cannot enter into the basis of the claim either of the two nor of the other nor of the basis or truth of the claim which is the subject of the debate, nor of the correction of whether the claim is incorrect or accurate. It's a correction. I can't prejudge, and neither can you say that's not true, so that's a correction, and that's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. And Madam Representative Bozica Šolić, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18943	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Unfortunately for me, my colleague, he's already half-said that incorrect quote by Mr. Ostojić, but I'll repeat it because it's very important. It's incorrect that only journalists are responsible for lighting up Luke Ritz's murder. Mr Ostojić is correct that our Croatian police did it and it was hiding the perpetrators, but I don't know why you consistently minorise the work of the Croatian police and the top of the Croatian police. Be brave and put the dice in your party and go out with it... /The speaker turned off, then turned back on./... Why are you shutting me down, you won't hear it, and that's true for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18944	SDSS representative club, Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18945	Mr. Vice President, Madam Vice President and other members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. ... Maybe you don't have anything to hear at least for now. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The SDSD club supports the debate launched by the SDP Representatives Club not only because it is common, not only because it is the right of the opposition but because we think there are numerous other democratic mechanisms between the two rounds of elections as it communicates with the public, how the voter's will is transmitted and how the work of state institutions is improved, and that is our obligation. If we'd only waited for the election to happen if we hadn't done what our job was, then we shouldn't even be sitting here. Therefore, we from the SDSS think it is good to discuss this issue as well as a number of other issues, and I would like to remind you that first of all, the SDSS Club, a month ago for the adoption of the Ministry of Interior's report last year, asked for the adoption of this report to be adopted and the conclusion that within 90 days, what the police are thinking about the state of security and their own setting up, to fight the obvious elements of uncertainty and, of course, against the elements of organised crime. The same was done by a group of clubs during the reconstruction of the government, so two weeks less than today since today's debate, the HNS club, the IDS club, the SDSS club and the National Minorities Club have asked to hold a debate within a month on how the newly appointed ministers see their concept and their mechanisms against the obvious elements of the physical uncertainty of citizens and the clearly present elements of organised crime and corruption. What we are doing today can be considered part of this debate that we are having and that we will obviously conduct in the next few months. Likewise as a member, the SDSS club as a member of the ruling coalition supports the debate, but will not support the basic momentum. The main intensity of the SDSS club is to preserve the coalition, improve its work, improve the efficiency of its work in all its segments, that is. But those who have said that there is no room for early elections in Croatia at the moment, those who have said that there is no room for anything but significant reforms and in structures to own, but also in the widest segments of society, we agree with them and we advocate such a policy. In that sense, the SDSS club thinks that the newly appointed ministers have a huge chance and in a month we will see how much independence and how much professionality and commitment they have received in this House, they have. And if it turns out as the indications show it is already showing, then there is no reason not to continue with those segments of reform and in the institutions of the authorities in which we need reforms. First of all, we at the SDSS Club are referring to the state administration issue. As police and the judiciary seek a thorough reform, so does the state administration. And we from the ruling coalition must find an adequate solution to reform in the government segment. And we need to find that urgently and we need to find it fast and we need to find it by the same mechanism that we found for the judiciary and the police. Thus, the criteria of professionalism and political incompetence and political inconsistencies. But now that I've already touched that political segment, of course we agree that we need to depoliticalise police work, the work of the judiciary, the work of the state administration. But it is possible to depolitize only with the assumption of a different policy, a policy in which patriotism and the service of the people will be shown by respect for the Constitution and the law. Because that's what we need. To all those who try to shut each other's mouths by seeing who's more responsible for this or segment and who has feelings for the state, these people speak from the past. That's what it looked like in '45. Well, there's no reason to appear today. So if there is room where we representatives of the Croatian Parliament can have some kind of common position, which is legislative and constitutional patriotism in Croatia. It's our responsibility. That's how we're gonna help both the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Police, so we're gonna help anyone who's directed to exercise authority. It's certainly our greatest duty. And is this kind of adherence to the law and attached to the Constitution and how much is its rate, certainly not in these figures that our colleague Friscic presented when we talk about saving. She is very unfortunately closer to the percentages of which she was talking about by her colleague Ostojić, which is that she is very low. Unfortunately, it is. And there's a lot we need to change. To make a state such that in each segment its people have confidence in its institutions and its representatives. To a cop, to a judge, to a clerk. Because corruption first devours trust in the institutions of the state, absolutely and entirely, and that means the state itself. And so many years of independence cannot be compensated for otherwise than by rebuilding and strengthening these institutions. When I talk about the prime minister's responsibility, there's little room to talk about the abuse of institutions, unfortunately still. There's a lot more room to say if we've developed these institutions, have we done them what they have to be? Not yet. And I'm going to look forward to the day of the moment when you start talking about it exactly. You, Prime Minister, have not benefited enough from the institutions at your disposal. Unfortunately. We are from the coalition, and I believe here people who are sitting are still aware, as are most citizens in this country that we have not strengthened the institutions of the state to the extent that we need to strengthen them. In this sense, we believe that, the SDSS Club considers, I believe, that the National Minority Representatives Club, that there is really no more work for Croatia at the moment than to strengthen state institutions, judicial, administrative and of course elements of state coercion such as the police, such as USKOK. However, we must be aware of the fact that the Minister of Justice trusts us then if he is not alone in this business with his ministry. Because he is not the only one who appoints judges or assesses their professionalism, but also the State Judiciary Council as an important place to strengthen the credibility of our judiciary's work. The same goes for the Constitutional Court. Speaking of elements of constitutional and legislative patriotism, we failed to prove it in the election of constitutional judges during the last election. We handled ourselves much more with some other criteria than with those criteria. I hope that in the next election that we as a SDSS club will certainly not interfere if what we have been trying to do has been seen as a distraction, and that we will not make that kind of mistake that we have made in my opinion. I don't want to explain them now, and I don't want to bring them out here. So I'd like to say it one more time. The SDSS club will not support the prime minister's impeachment initiative, but will support all those who will insist on further reforms in society. A colleague of Ostojić, who discussed it right before, certainly is like, and I can testify, as a member of the Committee on National Security and Internal Policy, has contributed significantly and helped us in the ruling coalition, and this also means to the prime minister to see the need to change something in police leadership. Not all discussions on these committees are not public and should not be. But a good part of what came out in public, a good part of what was led within that committee, of course, has shown that it is necessary to do so. Unfortunately, the minister did not understand the message sent to him. And one of the messages was, "If you've decided to go to the University Index, make up your mind at the police." This is of course true for some other aspects and other institutions. Corruption and unprofessionalism are the most expensive that the state can face. There's a lot of what we pay for, which we shouldn't pay for, but it's quite certain that corruption and unprofessionalism shouldn't be paid. There is no doubt that none of us will object to the Prime Minister for going to open this road today and for not being with us. But I also believe that my HDZ colleagues and other parties would be more pleased to mark that fact if there were no shadow around the entire construction sector including road construction, that there are elements of corruption that collect the whole process and that are burdening the state and that are taking from the state's cash, and it is our obligation to say that this must be contained. And in the end, there have been talks here today about tolerance on multiple sides of more respected speakers, and that's good. The tolerance for respecting each other's views, the beliefs of each other, but I would like this debate to conclude in one clear position, which is that there are things in this society that cannot be tolerated. And that's common to the HDZ, and to the SDP, and to the SDSS and the HSS, and to the HNS, and to the HSLS, and that's not a hate speech and a robbery of the state at the same time. It can't be said at one point that it's done because we're attached to patriots, and on the other hand, we don't have any dilemmas, they're going to run into someone or they're going to run into the state register. Folks, our voters expect us to create a mentality in which we will be known to take care of it. With how many successes that's a second question, but to keep an eye on it, he expects us to. There's a colleague and a colleague. So the SDSS club is joining this debate. He will continue to debate in the same interest, but he will support this government and its leadership.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18946	Thank you. There's been a debate over clubs. An individual debate. First in line, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18947	Mr Ivo Sanader, President of the Croatian Government in absentia. The SDP considers you politically responsible because the citizens of this country feel insecure, fearing that they or their children will be killed on the street. And because you were warned in time and well - meaning, you did nothing or made the wrong moves to prevent it. The SDP thinks you're responsible because in this country, the mafia is getting stronger and more reckless, and you haven't done anything or made the wrong moves to stop it. The SDP considers you responsible for corruption becoming a way of ruling, which is corruption established in some ministries, without you doing anything or making the wrong moves to prevent it. When it comes to security, the President of the Croatian Government in absentia I will remind you that the SDP was very well-intentioned in May of noticing that the state of security in Croatia is bad and requested this debate in this House. We've been dumped by this debate on the agenda for six months. We prayed five times and warned that she was finally put on the agenda by the president, and when the debate finally took place, when she could no longer be avoided, then you asked the Prime Minister to accept the Home Secretary's report and you commended the Home Secretary. If you'd listened to a well-intentioned SDP voice in time, maybe the last murders wouldn't have happened. You can't be guilty of killing someone on the road, but you're politically responsible if as prime minister you haven't done what you could do to make changes in the corridors in time and to prevent the escalation of violence on the road. You said when we asked Minister Roncevic to resign, you said it was none of my business what Zoran Milanovic said. What did you say to that? Zoran Milanovic does not speak for himself, says on behalf of the SDP, and the SDP also here in the Assembly speaks on behalf of 780,000 citizens who voted for the SDP. You said it was none of your business what 780,000 citizens think. This is what you have repeated here today after the speaker, that you are responsible for those who voted for you, but Mr. Prime Minister you, when you were elected prime minister in this House, became prime minister of all citizens, not just those who voted for you. We're talking about that responsibility. You are not aware of your Prime Ministerial responsibilities and we call on you to become aware of this debate. You are the Prime Minister, responsible among other things for the conduct of your ministers. So what's that? The same minister, Roncevic, is not the first time minister. He was also a minister of the past government, your government. He was at the head of the Moreh. There was a corruption affair at the time. Trucks were made and they were paid 14 million kuna more than the most favourable offer. That they were paid 14 million more and that this is an eclectic example of corruption, that's not what Stazic was saying in front of Charlie, that's what the President of the Republic said 10 times and demanded an investigation. You have neither requested this investigation nor supported the President of the Republic. No, I don't. You are Minister Roncevic, who was then at the Morh in the new government, who made him Home Secretary. That's the responsibility I'm talking about, because Roncevic didn't set himself up. You set him up. If the president pointed to an affair in the Morh on 14 million kuna corruption, carried out inspection, the military inspector was General Jozo Milicevic. When he submitted his inspection report in which he found that the procurement as well as many others in Morh 90% of them, Jozo Milicevic wrote at the time was not transparent, Roncevic replaced it. Today is an unscheduled day, General of the Croatian Army. Who in his report told you that you have corruption in the MORH, you have a minister who is responsible. You haven't replaced the minister. You did not support Croatian Army General Jozo Milicevic, you supported corruption. The same minister, Roncevic, buys an apartment on loan a few years later. The war on that loan is 11,000 kuna. We're talking about your responsibility for poverty in this country. We're talking about your responsibility to those who need to meet first in the month, connect the end with the end, and your minister is taking credit with a war of 11,000 kuna. So when they gave him that loan, they might have thought in the bank, and I thought maybe he was going to be a life minister and have a minister's salary. He didn't even pay off the second war of credit, he was removed. But the citizens are interested in how, how, where did the minister get that kind of money? From where? That 11,000 kunas can pay the war of credit, and we need to make sure it's not from the 14 million kunas of the MORH. You say, we fight corruption, we introduce new methods, we get criminals' DNA. Prime Minister, take their property, not their DNA. Their power comes from their money, without money they're nothing, just a street gang with which it's easy to count. But when SDP's representative, the law professor Ivo Josipovic, offered an amendment that could take away property that could not be proved legally acquired, you rejected the amendment, the government rejected it to the prime minister, you rejected it. And that's why you're responsible, you're politically responsible because by refusing that amendment, you've made it possible for the mob to remain money and become more powerful. Be careful, if the amendment had passed, the legality of any property would have been established, perhaps your prime minister, and then you might have wondered where you came from and how you got to that villa you live in Zagreb. You say in Austria, trade in that pornographic material, I don't know what you were doing. Maybe. But our police are working with the Austrian police. Well, it wouldn't be a problem to find out how many taxes you paid in Austria at the time and how much your profits were. Prime Minister, you have rejected the amendment of Ivo Josipovic, because you do not want to know. You don't want this procedure to begin. And that's why we find you responsible. In a maestro action, a scandal was discovered, corruption, three of your ministers were in the board of directors, three ministers were making decisions, some were arrested, what happened to the ministers? You've re-named them ministers in the new government. We talk about this political responsibility to the prime minister and ask for that political responsibility we will never tire of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18948	Thank you. There are several corrections to incorrect allegations. First is the distinguished representative Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18949	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, here's Mr. Stazic said in his always inspired debate, I will correct a series of false allegations, I will put one, when he said that corruption is the way of rule throughout Croatia. Agent, you know that's not true. The corrupt way of ruling is today in the city of Zagreb, unfortunately where you act, the SDP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18950	The second is a respected representative, the second correction, the esteemed representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18951	I thank Mr. Vice President, here is Agent Stazic, who said corruption has become a way of ruling and you have done nothing, it is simply not true, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is particularly prominent in the area of countering corruption, a lot has been done and a strategy has been adopted to combat corruption adopted in the Croatian Parliament, an action plan has been adopted in the anti-corruption strategy, a committee has been established to monitor the implementation of measures to combat corruption, the president of this commission is also your member, therefore, out of opposition, doing much to prevent, therefore, internal controls at all levels. But what I'm trying to tell you is that you're not consistent. Namely, you were in this government until 2003 when you decided to set up a Committee to prevent conflicts of interest, from February 2002 until the end of 2003, there is plenty of time. You were unable to establish this commission, or name only people Please, you're not consistent or politicizing. [[Intruder: Time!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18952	Time! Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, distinguished representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18953	Mr. Vice President, I will correct the incorrect allegations of fellow Stazic, where he stated that the prime minister had done nothing or made wrong moves to improve the security situation. At the same time as the murder of unfortunate Ivana, the police of Virovitica-Podravska County and Osijek-Baranja in co-operation revealed the beatings, 9 of them who had exceeded, set the car on fire, found a mediator, and found an orderer of the beating. So success in that field, here's the bar, I'm talking about this one example of all those when it comes to corrupt examples, we also have a series of those that we could name and one of them is to expose corruption in the bankruptcy manager at Podravska Slatina for 200 thousand kuna. So we have Mayor Virovitica for 600 kuna. And so in turn, we could list a lot of things from your ranks of people who have committed corrupt acts and the police have found and discovered it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18954	Thank you. Honorable, incorrect correction, without throwing it out of the bench, we've got everyone, enough of you checked in, we've got time, we'll discuss it all. Let's move on with the corrections, distinguished representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18955	Mr. Vice President, well, dear fellow Stazic, as usual, I would say a little ironically speaking and rhetorically asking questions like this, in the Parliament, he said Prime Minister Sanader, and he is talking to him here that he has done nothing to counter the mafia or corruption. Well, that's what a colleague is talking about, after all. Data that you say doesn't matter. They're very important. About the percentage of resolutions at the time of your government and since 2004 so I'll say just a few. Here are the mass of robberies in both post offices and banks and exchange offices. And about how much corruption is, and by claiming that corruption has prevailed in Croatia's fearing Croatian citizens, I can tell you to step away from your own ranks. Of your local officials where you have places for both the index and the Index action and political corruption. Just start from my Sucker... /The speaker's off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18956	Thank you. And the esteemed representative of Miroslav Skoro. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18957	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here in this virtual communication of Mr. Stazic with our prime minister he said a lot of things that are questionable, but I will try to stick to the correction of one, quote, one sentence that says that our prime minister said it was none of his business as to what 740 thousand citizens think, which is absolutely not true, Mr. Stazic. The prime minister did not say that sentence which can also be checked in the phonogram, and on the other hand, I think that you have unfoundedly accused him of being rich in trade in pornographic material in front of the Croatian public, which I think is totally unacceptable and absolutely not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18958	Thank you. We're having an individual discussion. Dear Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18959	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Why are we looking for Prime Minister Sanader's responsibility and then the government as a whole? First of all, it's because Mr. Sanader doesn't deny that he's concentrated with all the power, but he's happy to share his responsibility with anyone. With Bush, the International Community even with Bandic. It shifts responsibility when the voice of the public is heard so loudly to its own ministers who until yesterday or the day before yesterday were praised. But the question at all is whether the ministers in his government that I'm proposing, so these are the people of his greatest trust can do anything at all if they could and wanted to do the job that is under the Constitution and by the law of the day. It's hard because they often function more as ministers at the Reverend of the Ban Courts than ministers who can do their duty. The question of the security of citizens, each person, his above all economic security, and then physical security, is the question of the responsibility of each government. And any voter, regardless of some special priorities, whether he voted for HDZ or SDP, each voted to be better, to live better and to be safe. With us, here you see we get answers to very specific questions, we get answers: "We've got elections" and there's the end of the story. Then what are you talking about? So the assumption of winning the election is just a presumption of democracy. And what is one government? First of all, it must be transparent, calculating and must be checked, first of all by the opposition. And it has to answer these constant and everyday questions. Uh, what a pain in the ass, Madam Vice President, for one power. However, what is the question of our physical security? It's a question that we didn't get an answer here today and from which the government runs like the devil from the incense. Namely, when the Split Peristille came red years ago, but red with plain color, many got excited, worried about what it was? The matter of security has been raised. Today's sidewalks of our cities are often bled. Red is not from fear, but from human blood. And that's what the government needs to give an answer to. That's what happened last night. So today’s answers are not answers by running away in history. They can be historic if we see here and there's a way out, but the government obviously has no answer. He doesn't want to have it. So as far as the security issues are concerned, we left behind even the legendary Chicago where mobs were happening on the periphery and never Wednesday, rarely in broad daylight. But what's the consequence? So the truth is, no government can avoid a murder that's motivated, that's made out of hate. It's happening and it's going to happen. Of course, in more solid societies, killings like that are rarer. But we are flooded with seemingly unmotivated murders. These are the most common mob deals where hit men, craft killers who kill like they drink water, act like they're doing the most harmless work. We're looking for a life sentence for those people because we know they'll kill them when they get out. The government said, "No. You rejected that proposal twice. But that's the consequence of something much more serious. Something that's been done "and done" and the reckoning is bloody when we don't see it all on the streets, on the roads. So that's what the mob is? What's organized crime? Well for him it's just corruption of the heart and it's his transition to act in some segments of public government policy. I'm afraid that's what we're being warned about from Europe, so in developed countries, it's an acute phenomenon. It was obvious that as soon as it entered the economy, it had just become a chronic phenomenon, and it was very, very difficult to eradicate it even if there was the most serious will for it. One stable, just political arrangement requires a certain basic belief, common beliefs, one moral value. They're getting lost today. They're completely gone, so we see it in the murder of these young men made by young people. This is a consequence that Krleža spoke of the division of Croatia into the county and agricultural Croatia a long time ago. So there are huge differences and increasing differences between Croatian citizens. There has been a loss of confidence among citizens as well as resisting and rooting out corruption. That simple belief is gone, it seems as citizens no longer believe enough, that we are ready to show one common contempt for corrupters and corrupts. Of all these corruptions, the most important and dangerous, we will all agree on this political corruption. It has indeed become political greatness with us. That's what all these indicators and public perceptions and public perceptions are showing. However, just as we point out, Mr. Prime Minister said we would no longer tolerate the mafia. That means she's been tolerated for five years. But in five years she worked, she nested, she let go of the tentacles. So everything now and if you wanted to deal with it, it's not possible anymore. Privileges, enforcement, therefore, the issue of fiscal, customs, tax, stock and other transactions in the acquisition of concessions. All of these areas are very suitable for the flowering of corruption. As much as we've struggled here for one amendment to pass in relation to publication, the public publication of the concession register. But so, it's important, now we hear big messages from the government, going into the making of anti-mafia law. But we're not anywhere, and we're talking about something we already have, but it doesn't work very well. But the most important thing is prevention, and that means first of all that the government and how to keep the government solid, how to make all the jobs that are managed by public property transparent to the end. But they're still secret and the bill proposals that come back are covered in secrets. In one CAP, a banking secret is installed in the Criminal Procedure Act, and everywhere in the world, it is also noted by anti-corruption associations that the banking secret is the main covert and protector of money launderers. So we saw a report six months ago by Manivola, a European institution to prevent money laundering that says that Croatia is El Dorado for money launderers. So what are we going to call ourselves a money launderer? Well, the basic thing is that my colleague Stazic also said to cut off their nutritious base. What's the Bureau of Money Prevention doing? What transaction is he checking? In Croatia it is possible to buy a port, and this company has no ficus. Well, that's what we should do. The word will be taken away from the property, but it's coming back post-festum. Of course that's what we need, and that's what we suggested, so it was rejected. And what's more, here's the meeting at this point of the National Council for Combating Corruption. Here are the businessmen who said: “We pointed to corruption, bribery.” When the financial police came to us, the tax authorities came to us. They've been walking our companies for three years. They didn't find anything. So is it possible that just when they report corruption, the financial police come to them, instead of being the subject of what our investigative authorities are talking about? They turn and fall upon the bearer of these bad news, therefore they are punished. You can't talk about it. And why is that? To keep it hairless. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18960	We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. He's the first respected representative of Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18961	Dear Vice President, Commissioner Marinovic has cited the whole series in this performance of incorrect allegations, but one says, "Platniks are bleeding" that is so, "the government has no answer." Well, that's not true. You were sitting here when you heard from the Prime Minister and this first government who had the guts to say publicly that they would deal with crime and have already taken their first moves, and I'll remind you. In 2000 to 2003, you were the minister of justice when it was that spectacle with the criminal organisation, and then the County Court in Zagreb decided that there was no criminal organization at all in Zagreb, so the Constitutional Court confirmed it. And right then, this criminal organization was building the foundations that this government has to tear down today, and you were just the minister of justice and you walked away.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18962	Thank you. You shouldn't throw it away. I said, we've got time, but we've got more. Dear Representative Miroslav Škoro, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18963	Thank you. The distinguished colleague spoke in her speech in a way that the impression that such a boom of crime had occurred in the Republic of Croatia and that nothing was done about it, so I would only read some data about our public which is statistics, so the truth is. In 2000, the prevalence of crime by police administrations in the Republic of Croatia was at the level of 68378. Then, in 2001, 78351 etc. etc. So that number grew year after year not to take too much time, which in some ways coincides with the layoff of 3 and a half thousand authorized officers in 2000, with the abolition of high school police school, with the freezing of the work of the Police Academy, etc. etc. And perhaps it is necessary to say that in the last year the number of these shops was 75857 which was far less than it was in 2001, of course, 2006.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18964	Thank you. And we have a correction to the incorrect allegations of the esteemed representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18965	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here's counterpart Anticevic says fighting crime is no longer possible. I think it's not true. So let's look at a little bit of what's been seized, past time, and that's the basics, the drugs, that's the foundation of mob financing. Let's just remember that a little bit. Secondly, he says, "The government has no answer and does not want to hear it." So here I claim that the guilty person is indeed President Sanader, who, by reading yours, gave you the answer to all your questions. Take a phonogram and whatever one of you speaks, read your voice and answer immediately. We'll be much shorter today than we are.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18966	Thank you. And the correction of the incorrect allegations by the distinguished representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18967	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Vice-President of the Government, the Honorable State Secretary, ladies and gentlemen. Here's what I'm going to do to correct Mrs. Anticevic's false claim that the government has no answer and does not want to have it. Already two MPs have respected Mr. Kunst, Mr. Markovanovic referred to this correction of the quote, and the answer is therefore the results of Mrs. Anticevic's Ministry of Interior as well as USKOK show a continuous increase in efficiency in the repression of various forms of organised crime, especially smuggling and trafficking in human beings, drugs. Also weapons and various corruptive crimes.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18968	Thank you. We're moving on with an individual discussion. Dear representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18969	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. What has no prime minister at this debate today when it comes to primarily his work and his testimony, so a request for mistrust, that's one of his consistent behaviors. About a year and a half ago when he was, like, a year and a half ago. The governor of the CNB said, quite critically speaking about the economic situation in Croatia said that the government of Ivo Sanader did not make any moves in the right direction, then in this hall most, therefore primarily the HDZ club only took note of that report, sent a kind of message to the governor to watch what he was saying. When the Ombudsman in his report was critical of the same functioning of the government, his report was also noted. When the president of the state says something critical about the work of Prime Minister Sanader and his government, he also says that he will wait another year and will certainly not listen to the remarks from Pantovic. When we say something in Parliament, it is also said that we are politicians and we are taught a lesson and leaving this hall. So a very consistent behavior of Prime Minister Sanader that speaks of him being unable to listen to anything critical on his own account. But Croatia is not HDZ and here in Parliament we who are here are obliged to speak critically about the work of the prime minister. That the prime minister ignores a part of Croatia, so he ignores us in opposition because for this request when journalists asked him about the dead ice he said he doesn't care what Milanovic wants and what Milanovic says. He confirmed it today in his sentence when he said: "We are responsible for those who have chosen us." Only partially correct. The moment Ivo Sanader became prime minister is responsible for all citizens and he needs to be concerned about what the opposition is saying on this side, which SDP is saying, which some other parties are saying in opposition because we are the speakers of those citizens who voted for us. So the 750 or 800 thousand people who gave us the vote. We speak for them. I don't listen to us and say that, I don't care what we say about SDP means ignoring all these citizens, so the rest of Croatia, and here's what Mr. Sanader confirmed today that he is the prime minister only of those who voted for him. Why do we think Ivo Sanader should leave the prime minister's post and simply not be the prime minister this country deserves? Because he is constantly serving himself, to say by deception to the public, he makes certain statements, makes certain promises, and from year to year none of this is happening. I have to admit it's very sad when the prime minister says it's time to start, or start a judicial academy, and forgets that four years ago he was at the opening of that judicial academy. Maybe he forgot that the Judicial Academy exists because there are no results from the Judicial Academy? I don't know. But it's ugly when the prime minister says something needs to be established that he opened four years ago. It's just as ugly when the prime minister says you need to work, so to collect DNA samples, and that's what it's about. Is it legally arranged well enough? I don't know, but it's done. Once again, the prime minister of speech needs to do something that has already been done. But don't talk about taking away property for those who have wrongly and illegally acquired it. We have also proposed constitutional change here so that some things concerning war profit and privatisation processes will not become obsolete. Unfortunately, it's not accepted. It is not accepted because this situation obviously does not suit Prime Minister Sanader. On September 2, 2005, the day following the arrest of Hrvoje Petrač, Prime Minister Sanader said this way: "No one will threaten anyone else in Croatia anymore. No ordinary citizen, no public workers, no journalists, no government officials. All state services received a warrant, and with organized crime, we will be accounted for until the end. No one will threaten anyone else in Croatia." Since then, my dear colleagues and colleagues, some journalists have been beaten up, some business people have been beaten up, many children have been beaten, one graduate has been killed, and then Mr. Sanader says, "I'm ready to finally fight the underworld and I will no longer tolerate violence." What does that mean? So since 2004, when he came to power, he has tolerated the same crime and the same violence. When the "Maestro" action was launched, the prime minister said: "This is a strong step forward and a strong message to those in Croatia who are trying in an unfair and criminal way to serve public goods and state property, that they will be prosecuted by all means of the rule of law. In curbing organised crime, bribery and corruption, HDZ must be the leader and first political force of Croatia." What happened to Maester? Three people were released, spent a year and a half in prison. Two of them filed charges against the state, hence the damages claim for being in prison for a year and a half, and nothing happened. Not to mention that those who were in a way more responsible, and those ministers sitting in the board of trusts were not responsible for blessing there all the time. So from "Maestra" obviously nothing, let alone another step forward, which is to clear the story to the very top of the pyramid. "Index", an action that was also carried out just to create a certain performance in the state. A lot of people at the university dressed up, embarrassed in front of cameras, media. We'll see what's going to be of it all, who's going to be prosecuted for that kind of, so corruption. So far, only one student has been processed, but what is much more important, I wonder who will be responsible for the damage done to both the state and our university community. Likewise, the action "Gruntovec" was also very pompously published in the media, caught people who were illegally enrolled in grantovnica, took bribes and corruption, and so far nothing. Nothing, people released, convicted of just some, perhaps, or accused of certain counter-oppressions, and real criminals, mobsters and murderers are still at large, and that's what the real sin of Eve Sanader is. In this opinion that we have received, therefore, some 15 pages of response from the Government of the Republic of Croatia have arrived on this initiative and it is very interesting that these pages are very positive about working within two ministries, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior, so the question is really why these people have been replaced. Why are two ministers being removed if the situation is so good in their vaults? I think Prime Minister Sanader replaced them at the moment when the little public with its negative, negative image approached Eve Sanader and to save themselves were dropped by two ministers, but the question was whether something would really move in those restaurants or rather tell the entire government. I don't think so, because unfortunately in this government, it's only done as Ivo Sanader says. And in the end, I'm interested in, for example, whether in one six month's time energy prices are going to go up again in this country. The other day we had the opportunity to hear the Vice-President of the Government of Polancec who said that the price of gas would certainly have to go up, two months ago also wanting to stop one negative picture of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Prime Minister Ivo Sanader appeared more or less like God and said, "No electricity will collect because I say so." It has nothing to do with the market, I say electricity won't collect. That's how it happened with the gas, and the gas won't pick up. So I'm wondering if maybe tomorrow, Prime Minister Ivo Sanader will, as I say figuratively, take off his head, replace either Minister Polancec or Minister Shuker when that same price of gas is significantly higher, when the electricity price is significantly higher because this government has no energy strategy, because this government has been doing not doing a quality job for five years, but has been constantly adding to one part of the electoral body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18970	Thank you. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. He's the first respected representative of Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18971	Well, Honorable Vice President, the Opacic MPs are obviously guilty of everything and everything, most likely because he recently attacked a diver at Vis, but let's let it go. Among many incorrect allegations, she said she was cheating on the public year after year and nothing was happening. So if this is nothing, then the Government of the Republic of Croatia, except to increase the minimum wage by 120,000 workers, has cost employment to employers in the first year of work by 17.2%. Retired people will no longer have to pay their contributions if they have domestic work. Retirement has been made, old and new pensioners have been leveled. Corrected injustice means to them. Personal deduction from 1.600,00 to 1.800,00 kuna has been increased. Retired personal deductions increased by 3,000. I could list you now for 15-20 minutes what I can't normally do because the Rules of Procedure won't allow it, but if you're going to listen to my debate, then I'm going to remind you of everything this government has done and what you normally deny, and obviously the SDP doesn't fit.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18972	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18973	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I am correcting the incorrect allegations by MP Opacic, where she says the prime minister said he would establish a judicial academy, and reportedly opened the same academy in 2004. It is true that the judicial academy exists within the Ministry of Justice, that it is open in 2004 and that it deals with the education of already appointed judges. What we have drawn with the action programme that this government has drawn, is the establishment of a judicial school in the period between training and the appointment of judges to pass through the French model of judges for the very purpose of professionalism, impartiality and independence of the trial. And another incorrect allegation that was stated, that nothing happened in the actions "Maestro", "Gruntovec", "Diagnosis". It happened, so either the investigations are ongoing or the charges have been filed, and I firmly believe that we are all on the trail of not wanting to be a police state and to be tried without a court case.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18974	Thank you. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovinović, correction of the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18975	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's a colleague who claims that our prime minister's consistent behavior is to avoid listening to some criticism, which is absolutely not true. We listen to these same stories every time on "The Current Hour." I don't see any difference, through their questions it's the same. I think it's extremely important that he be present today at the opening of the highway, the completion of the road towards Gorican, the borders. Then opening a bridge, which is extremely important for this. But it is consistent that your party president can neither accept that he is not the prime minister nor that he will become prime minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18976	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, distinguished representative Miroslav Škoro. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18977	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I'm just going to get attached to correcting the incorrect allegation that Prime Minister Ivo Sanader is the person who quotes: "is cheating on the Croatian public" so I'm going to continue just so that Mr. Kunst started, in the period from the end of 2003 to the end of 2007, the average economic growth was moving at 4.8%, GDP per capital increased from 5.9 thousand to 8.5 thousand euros. In 2007, the total number of persons employed increased by 129 thousand etc. etc. I think cheating on the public is far more and far before someone can agree on who will be the prime minister's candidate, so little me, little else would be cheating on the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18978	Thank you. And the correction of the incorrect quote, the esteemed representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18979	Thank you, Vice President. I'd like to point out, or even better, that nothing happened to the members of the Maestro case. This team is more since the process is still under way and it is not appropriate to degrade the work of USKOK and all other bodies in this action the team is no longer completed.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18980	Thank you. Let's move on with the individual debate. Dear Representative Igor Dragovan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18981	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. That everything is so beautiful and wonderful then I don't know why you're sitting here, and not on the other side where you've been sitting recently. Everything wonderful and wonderful and you hop on this side, I don't know why. In today's presentation, the prime minister mentioned events at the Croatia-Andor football game five or six times, and he mentioned the unacceptable behaviour of part of the fans, and I welcome it because it is really important to react sharply to such things. But he didn't mention or think it didn't matter that several ministers and vice-presidents of the government and the vice-president of the Parliament stayed neatly in the solemn box and it didn't seem to bother them. I don't know if they're involved in the scandal, but I know they haven't fenced at least not publicly, which is double criteria. Now, that's double the criteria. These are double criteria that say one thing and do the other. And that's why Ivo Sanader doesn't and shouldn't trust you. The prime minister and government are responsible for all Croatian citizens and this is the government of all citizens, not as the prime minister claims only those who chose him. What does that mean? That other citizens are less valuable? What does it mean that they don't have the same rights as everyone else? Only this claim is sufficient reason for the prime minister to step down. Calling for election results is legitimate, but you didn't get the trust to allow the mob and organised crime to do what they wanted with your inaction. You didn't get that trust in the election. 20 days ago in this House of Commons, we discussed the Home Secretary's report on the state of security. The debate was the result of the SDP's initiative. Although, my colleague Stazic said, "I've been kicking on the agenda, a little bit here, a little there." According to the prime minister, we have sought constructively and responsibly to debate because things have gone wrong, because fear has prevailed and that fear still exists. But we also, as responsible people, didn't call the street, we didn't yell at the waterfront about the treasonous authority, but in the Croatian Parliament, where problems should be discussed, we asked for this debate. Unfortunately, one man had to win over his head, another man in a row had to get a head in order for the prime minister to decide that debate in the Parliament and be. Citizens of voters have given us confidence to give them a better and safer life, and they lose confidence in the institutions of the rule of law. They are concerned about their safety and the safety of their children. The debate was very wide. This is a phonogram of that debate. There are very nice praises about successes, work, a minister who is very good, excellent, excellent minister and brilliant statistics. This could in short be a summary of the debate we had. And look at the wonders, after a few days there goes the minister. There goes the minister. And why did he leave? The prime minister is responsible for public security and it is very clear that at that time the perception of the public came into the situation that he was responsible, they needed scapegoats. That's how the Minister and Minister of the Interior flew away. Just before that, when something similar happened, we had the opportunity to listen to the prime minister roaring from Mark's square this afternoon, from an extraordinary cabinet session that would no longer tolerate crime and then flew away the chief of police administration after the beating of Galinca. But those are the facts. The inaction of the past months has made it known that criminals in Croatia are all allowed. And what has been said a lot in this debate, security in a country is not only measured by naked statistics but by the subjective sense of security of citizens. So far, you've been defending yourself with statistics, no matter how hollow that sounds. Now the people you chose the other day have to give results because in this country, it doesn't seem to live on statistics. And is there any political will to deal with organised crime and corruption? Because the basis for dealing with organised crime and corruption is the political will and willingness of all, and especially the ruling, to deal with this monster, Ivo Sanader said for the first time. All government services received a warrant and we will deal with it until the end. In Croatia, no one will threaten anyone, no ordinary citizen, no public workers, no journalists, no civil servants. So says the minister of that time, police will investigate all of these and other threats that have been sent and thus give citizens security in their legal state. It was in September 2005 for you, dear colleagues and colleagues. And then, on 6 October 2008, the prime minister said: "This is definitely the moment to deal with the mafia, regardless of who it is. Therefore, we will not tolerate organised crime or mob murder or anything like that." This kind of behavior definitely shows no political will to deal with crime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18982	Thank you. And now we're going to the corrections. The first is Honorable representative Ante Kulusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18983	Mr. Vice President. My colleague said the government's coming up with double criteria that I don't think are true. In connection with the event in Maksimir, the lodge certainly did not run because I was in the box among a number of members of the government and among a number of members of the SDP, including the mayor of the city of Zagreb. I didn't notice any reaction from the SDP members.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18984	Thank you. Don't throw it away, you'll get your turn. Take it easy. Correction of an incorrect allegation, distinguished representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18985	Well, among the many incorrect allegations, I'll try two just here. The prime minister, says MP Dragovan, the prime minister argues that he only corresponds to those who chose him. That's incorrect. I have never heard it anywhere that he said unlike you who are here, not personally, but you from the SDP who said here that you are speakers and that you serve 750 thousand citizens of 4.5 million in Croatia and logically you are too little to win the election. But second, as far as crime is concerned, everything is allowed and the criminals are allowed. That's incorrect. So I'll remind you when the state's attorney said in 2000 that you're not giving him any support right now, there's no support from the state summit to deal with the mob and then a criminal organization. And the former minister, according to you or your president, has joined the hooligans.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18986	Thank you. We have a correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18987	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, I really think that the finding of double conduct is a double criterion as you said, when it comes to corruption, when it comes to security, when it comes to the rule of law of this government, I would very much say not only incorrect but very harmful, very harmful. So incorrect and harmful. Why? So if this government is trying to do everything to achieve the most possible standards on these three elements and to really meet the standards for joining the European Union, then you are actually here showing that none of this is true. If we're going to talk about that duality of morality and I don't know the criteria, then it turns out you really have a big problem. On the one hand, you support this government and the Republic of Croatia on your way to the European Union, and the other side all the time you claim that everything that seems not sincere is not credible, etc., and indeed it is... but very harmful for the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18988	Time. Thank you. Dear Representative Niko Rebić, correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18989	You're telling an esteemed colleague that the debate on the state of affairs at the MUP has come to your party's initiative. This is firstly incorrect, as it is the assessment of the state in the MUP mainly for the year 2007 when the minister was Mr. Kirin. So, mostly the first five months of 2008. Some of your colleagues debated for 10 minutes without even reading the 2007 score, but all the time they were politically talking about "Index" which wasn't in the material they represented at all. So, in fact, all objective analysts say this won't bring you points, because losers mostly do everything at the wrong time.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18990	Thank you very much. Your time is up. We have a correction to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Nevio Šetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18991	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to correct one incorrect quote from my colleague Dragovan, who points out that the prime minister encourages the fact that all citizens are not equal, is that it only corresponds to one and that that is sufficient reason for the shift. This is exactly what I want to make right, because in this Visko home, the prime minister had the opportunity to inauguration the other government just called on the opposition to join with the good proposals that will be heard, and this is the fact that these are high democratic standards, and these standards were mentioned today by the prime minister and I think that Croatia has the space to build such relationships that all of them need to be exactly the opposite of what Mr Dragovan said.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18992	Thank you. Dear representative Susana Bilić Vardić, correction of the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18993	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I would correct the incorrect allegations of a respected colleague, Dragovan, who said that citizens are losing confidence in the institutions of the state. I do not agree with this because almost all parties in this Parliament have reached a consensus on the correct moves that the prime minister and the president of the Croatian government, Dr Ivo Sanader, made to change certain people in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, has just raised the issue of trust with the same government and the questions of the early as the SDP president today said early elections, or extraordinary elections, and here are the media, and on 9 October, "The Morning List" declared the result of this debate today. Milanovic remains lonely in the SDP counterparts' parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18994	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18995	Here's what I'd like to say to my colleague Dragovan, that, in fact, correct in any case correct. He claims that the defense of statistics says hollow sounds. First of all, I don't think statistics have any sound, do they, that it shouldn't be defended, because statistics need to be read. And the other thing is that this same statistic isn't working out for you, and that's why you're going down to statistics now. Otherwise, you regularly quote it when something, at least something comes in favor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18996	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the distinguished representative Mato Bilnjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18997	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to correct one false allegation, and I'll quote my colleague Dragovan when he said that the government is knowingly telling its inaction that crime is all permitted. I think we are aware this year and witnesses of how much the former minister has launched activities along with USKOK, together with the State Attorney's Office and has not been removed because of these activities, but the new organisation in the ministry has come because the latest unfavorable events suspect that there is a mafia in Croatia, and the mafia must be fought by far more experts than politicians.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18998	Thank you. And the correction of the incorrect allegations by the distinguished representative Nedjeljko Strikic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u18999	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here I am, so that it would be a mistake to quote an esteemed representative who said, "It has been said knowingly that everything in Croatia is allowed crime." I think it's really incorrect information, not to say and a lie, because that's not how we're aware of the media polls of the largest fish in the Republic of Croatia, the most wanted ones who are now in Rementinac, is both General Zagorac and Mr Petrac are in prison. It means that this government has said there will be no place for crime in the Republic of Croatia, and also remember in 2000 a criminal organisation was arrested under the leadership of the HDZ government, and your authority has almost released it by 2004. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19000	Thank you. And now, on behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative, Ranko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19001	Mr. Vice President, your honor, the government's representatives. I'm a little bit in the zone because I think this statistic game is going to lead us in the wrong direction. In fact, we recognize the desire to talk here about responsibility and persistently and at the last session we tried to say that there should be no room for competition, so I will try to warn, on a few examples, how wrong it is. Among other things, MP Škoro quoted the figures of 68 thousand 303 and 78 thousand 115 as saying that the unknown change in the nomenclature that took place by amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, so what once was an offence had entered the criminal proceedings, because if that were the case last year 2007. 81 grand. And that's not the area of competition. And second, it is not good to keep repeating that a fall in the number of criminal acts means better safety. That's not true. The conclusion of this House, however, is that it is very important to enter the dark area of crime and that this is the problem of this country. If in the area of organised crime, drugs, corrupt criminal acts, we don't have an increase in the number of criminal charges, then it means we have less efficiency. These figures just mean that there would be no confusion in the statistics given to us and properly processed on several occasions, meaning on the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the unique conclusion was and then immediately at the beginning of this session, it is that it should get into the dark area of crime as best as possible. 3.5 thousand police officers are also incorrect information, I will not specifically elaborate, last time I told you about it, the number is far smaller, and I don't think it's necessary to repeat that it was a programme definition and HDZ in the 2004-2008 programming guidelines. What's important again, counting and being seized, is playing with a criminal organization. I have to ask the question whose police, that is, these exactly the thesis and the debates, are talking about us having the police who then belong to a certain political authority, it's wrong, it's the wrong message. If that's how we're going to build the police, and even worse, it's an example that we could hear earlier, or at the beginning of the session, which is that there are certain murders that are ours or yours. I guess all the murders deserve to be solved no matter what government was at the time that police were doing it. I hope it wasn't a message from those discussions that wasn't going to solve those murders that took place during the coalition government. I hope you're not sending that message, or that it can't be a way of working with the police. About the coordination of the body of repression, I must say that is where the basic part of the problem we're talking about lies. The government's declared goal in both the past term and this is to avoid mutual research and to work on it, we have also obtained confirmation in discussions both in situations and in results, and that is what this Parliament needs to discuss, in which it aims to increase security. In 2000 or no idea in 2001 were established and the department of special criminal affairs and introduced AFIS, i.e. a contracted and contracted, established USKOK, passed the Witness Protection Act, established a police strategy in the community, a crime prevention as an integral part of it, a tetra, a criminal policy not to count, but it doesn't matter, it's a continuation of the story that needs to be upgraded, because I am arguing, and I will repeat that sentence that I said and then, I claim that the sentence was and the SDP message I am absolutely sure that every citizen of the Republic of Croatia should be interested in having the best police regardless of what government it was. This is my line with the phonogram debate from the last time, so much about whether or not any comment or criticism is going after it, I'd really be the happiest, I'm saying I want the police to be the best. In that sense, we made all the comments and suggestions. What's important here, we're asking if it's possible that the significant problems we're facing right now can be solved at this level because unfortunately I get the impression that you're constantly defending the time that this problem was created. This one's kind of a little bit of Einstein quote, but it's true, we can't talk, I just heard from my colleagues earlier today that we faced the fact that we have a mob. Well, that's amazing, I mean, in the last two years of eight mob murders, to say that we've come to the moment that we have a mob today. What's important is, there's no use, about statistics, especially if I'm getting a haircut, if it's used for purposes to defend something. So to experience the situation that yesterday's list of 29 unsolved cases actually has five cases that happened or at some other time, so they're a little in here, or there are cases that have nothing to do with the statistics on the murders. Will someone be responsible for that? That's my question. As this statistics are conducted, one example can be given. And that means the body was found in 1999, an autopsy made in 2001 and then placed in unsolved cases of 2001 killings that is not how it is done, Mr. Buconjic, and that is neither the way nor the way it should be served outside. Or the case of a police officer who was solved in Serbia, thanks to our information, was found and solved. And if I don't talk about others, I won't, I'm saying that I don't think it's the space of intrusion and it's no good. I will advocate in the end the honesty of the consensus should be, because we definitely saw the situation, which is that it is not respected, it is very open on television, I don't care what Milanovic says. What's important is if it's to be achieved on this topic of consensus, then they should all be involved, and we've been meeting about much less important topics, and on this obviously we can't. Secondly, the question that is absolutely important to me. In the Parliament, where we need to talk, we can't impute anyone, when he gives criticism, when he makes suggestions on how to do something better that's not the place for that kind of thing. I think it's completely wrong, this is the right place, the law has defined. Instead of having a regular debate about the state of security, we come into a situation where it needs to be forced, that it must collect signatures and then avoid putting on the agenda. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19002	Thank you. And now we're going to correct incorrect allegations. First is Honorable Representative Miroslav Škoro. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19003	Thank you very much. Since I was apostrophe here and that, as the esteemed colleague said, listed the false statistics, and you and I just colleague passed probably statistics and we know what statistics is, I apologize, if you don't hear me, I'll get a little closer, nothing. So we both passed statistics, so we know about what the statistics are, you said I mislisted the statistics. I don't have time in one minute to stratify statistics or legally elaborate as they occur. However, these statistics are. What I read, and I didn't need to correct your statistical data on 15% of savings in the Republic of Croatia, and I know very well, and that's available on the Internet, so now I'm going to tell you that there are only 667 thousand savings in the housing savings you may have read, and let's just say there are a million 200 thousand people who have savings, so that's not 15%, is it, but statistics can be interpreted in different ways.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19004	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, distinguished representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19005	Mr. Vice-President, it is incorrect to say that he is far less than 3.5 thousand police officers who have been fired. It is true that 3.5 thousand police officers were fired, that the Police Academy was abolished and that it had far-reaching consequences on security in the Croatian state, that at the head of the ministry, in the directorate and in the police administrations, personnel were placed without a day's service in any police or security portfolio, as you were eventually the chief of police administration and the director of police without a day's employment at the MUP.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19006	Thank you. Correction of the false quote Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19007	So, dear Vice President, I believe that Agent Ostojic was thinking of me when he mentioned my discussion of an earlier criminal organization that he wanted to impose that as police he belonged to a political nomenclature. No, I didn't say that. But I'm sure and that's what I'm saying, the political nomenclature at the time was just closing its eyes in front of that criminal organization. Well, here's the proof. The officers working on it, I think you remember in 2000, got fired when they basically came in a way, led to that criminal organization being caught. Later, those cops were sent back to work on the way to the police. So you gave them illegal notice. Secondly, you had the Minister of Justice at the time, when it was publicly said there was no criminal organisation in Croatia at all, which was incorrect. It's completely incorrect. It was later proved that this particular criminal organization was at that time. concrete the foundations for what you're talking about today. [[Intruder: Time!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19008	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Tomislav Culjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19009	Here's colleague Ostojić said that the game with statistics will lead us in the wrong direction. Also, there's no use in statistics. I'll, he knows it well, investigations don't work. The statistics on the work of the MUP include the work of a number of police officers who carry out their work professionally and consciously as well as a number of security officers, the State's Attorney's Office and how long certain investigative procedures will depend on the complexity of the crimes committed. And public perception is also important, but safety is also related to statistics, and these are the results of the work of all those people working on the ground, who are doing certain investigations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19010	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Niko Rebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19011	Well, you told your colleague Ostojić that the downsizing of the number of police officers was in the program and project not only of your government but also of the HDZ. And I think, and I'm sure that's not true. We can argue about three and a half thousand police officers who were then shot at by the MUP but the question is, what structure? Were they defenders? There were some with high-tech equipment because we still remember the strike of a year of police officers on Mark's square. But what I'm putting on your mind in particular, which is the abolition of dozens of police stations in free areas. So that's where you left tens of thousands of citizens without the safety of their lives and property. So that mistake hasn't been corrected today, and big spaces, say, from Sinj to Knin, 100 kilometers of border, you don't have any police officers. That's the same thing in the factory. It's a reminder. Yours and the policies of former Prime Minister Shima Luchin. [[Intruder: Time!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19012	Thank you. And the correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative Krešimir Cosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19013	Dear Mr. Vice President, I am correcting the unserious, stressing Mr. Ostojić's inconclusive and incorrect quote, which stated: "There is no use in statistics." This will be a reference and a clear and important message that you must prove, and when you prove it, you may also receive the Nobel Prize for scientific contribution. Methodology of scientific statistics, statistical analysis, analysts are all tools that monitor the work of large systems, diseases, public health and police. And today, besides the police, I think that this kind of debate is seriously threatened by a serious scientific methodology such as statistics. Again, another inaccuracies. You said, "The fall of criminal acts does not mean better security." It's a real gray zone. Try to prove that gray zone and explain it at some scientific gathering. I think you will. give up every confession. [[Intruder: Time!]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19014	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, Croatian Deputy Prime Minister of Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity Mrs Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19015	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's a few, a few thoughts. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on topics that have been imposed under this global theme. I want to say first because it has been mentioned several times that the Prime Minister, Dr Ivo Sanader, said on several occasions that he was the prime minister only of those who chose him. That's absolutely incorrect. That's what the Prime Minister never said. However, even in his speech today, I think he warned, that he called, that he had appealed, but also by his own example, to show that some key and important issues in the Republic of Croatia are looking for a consensus, and I think I can say that he has really been active and proved it. There were also words here that the Prime Minister had given a lesson and that he had left because he didn't care, as some have said, what will be said here. That's not true. The Prime Minister hasn't taught anyone a lesson. The Prime Minister listed several of the most important things that were done in his term for which he was, of course, responsible and responsible. And he didn't go to drink coffee, but as you know he went to open the highway so he went once again to close up or conclude a big deal that he also did at the head of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Since it's about what anyone did or didn't do, let me say on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, whose head is the Prime Minister, Dr Ivo Sanader, that no criminal act of murder with the elements of organisation has been resolved in the period 2000 to 2004. So committed during that time period. There is also no solution to any criminal offence involving elements of the organisation of previous periods. In fact, I'd like to remind you of the fact that in 2000, it's in the case of the so-called so-called. The mob organisations instead of putting the competent institutions and the government into the function of putting together or serving the attorney's office and the court that political messages were being sent in this sense that all what happened in the case of a crime was a play like now, in all these cases which we are witnessing since the "Diagnosis", the "Index" and so on, it says that this is a public play and that nothing seems to be done. So, of course, I'm asking what should make the SDP gentlemen happy? Perhaps this data satisfys the curiosity of the fact that the rightful indictments that are in courts, 1031 of them, therefore, are of course awaiting a continuation of the process, i.e. the verdict, that 209 of these charges of corruption and 822 of organised crime. I will remind, of course, that the government has also made significant steps in the past term, and it is now doing so primarily to strengthen institutions such as the state's attorney's office, independently of course, but has also created a legislative framework, but has also created material assumptions to strengthen these institutions. So, the DORH, or the Jump. I will also remind you of the fact that here it is also said that Mr. Ostojić has persistently denied the fact that more than 3000 were fired from the system, we have the data of 3 and a half thousand employees in the Ministry of the Interior, police officers under the pretext that they are not professional, and also persons with high expertise have been fired. I will remind myself of another fact that we as Government have faced the problem of not fulfilling the collective agreement of the Government of Ivica Racan right at the Ministry of the Interior and that, on the basis of the non-fulfilment of the collective agreement, it means that the non-payment, for example, for overtime, work on holidays, Saturdays, on Sundays, of these people working in the Ministry of the Interior system has raised more than 23,000 lawsuits and that the Government of Dr. Ivo Sanader has paid on behalf of all these outstanding obligations under the basic collective contract for servants in the Ministry of the Interior until today almost a billion kuna. So, this is the information of the ladies and gentlemen that should be taken into account in this debate, and here in the end, since I won't be longer, I won't take away the time of the respected MPs and MPs, I'm just going to mention some more unsolved cases that are not spoken of here today and of course are not spoken of in the context of what is who and when he was working during what period. For example, in the case of Levar, the bomber, putting a bomb in front of the city's head, the fact that in 2002, or 2003, one person, I won't mention the name now, the names aren't important, but you'll all know who's being talked about publicly on TV warned that there was going to be a murder. That person was later murdered. Therefore, I agree with all those who say it is not good to put boundaries between when a certain government started working to solve these problems. We don't need to politicize, but we need to speak facts and, of course, we need to speak data. So, I repeat. There are 1031 legal indictments in courts for 209 acts of corruption and 822 organised crime. In the end, since it was about what someone should have done at the time of the rampage at the game mentioned by the Prime Minister. Of course, you should have considered that members of the government and left, I agree with that. But it's very difficult in a particular situation to see what's best done. It is easy to be smart after the battle, so it is mentioned that the mayor of Zagreb has left. He left because he had another obligation that day, since he's leaving in half the event, he comes to half the event, because of course he's a big guy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19016	Thank you. Now let's get to the corrections on this side. He is the first respected representative of Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19017	E, Deputy Prime Minister, it is not true that the prime minister did not say that he was the prime minister of the HDZ alone. Get a stenogram. He said this morning: “I am responsible for those who voted for me, ” and that is the same. He doesn't care what he thinks here in this SDP assembly, and the SDP here represents 780,000 people, he doesn't care. Now, look, it's not the prime minister's responsibility, because the prime minister has to be prime minister to everyone. It is the party president's responsibility and I allow him not to be interested in what his party or representatives of his party think of him. Well, I understand he doesn't care about that at all, because he doesn't care what he thinks, he doesn't care what they think. They'll still vote the way they have to vote, because they're addicted to it. But he doesn't care here today, it's his prime responsibility as the opposition thinks, what those representing 780,000 citizens, voters think. And he not only said that, Deputy Prime Minister, he's acting so systematically.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19018	Time, time. Thank you. And as for that statement, we'll take out the phonogram, and we'll read it. Let's move on, correcting the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19019	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, Mrs. Kosor said the prime minister isn't here because he's at the conclusion of an important job. So the highway opened at 12:00. I am convinced that this debate will take all day and that probably Mr. Sanader has the opportunity to return, so we will see how much he holds to this House and to the debates of people representing 780 000 Croatian citizens. So I don't think it's an argument that he couldn't be here with him leaving at 12:00 p.m. to open the road. He could probably be here by now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19020	Thank you. Please don't throw it away. This is the Croatian National Assembly, the Croatian State. Don't throw it away about anxiety, because there's no reason. We have plenty of time and we don't need to share the Assembly with whom it represents. This is a unique Parliament. We can speak for ourselves, but not that way. I mean, that's not a good message. We will not be divided, nor will the people be divided. Let's make a correction, the last of us is the distinguished representative Ranko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19021	I'll make the rest right later as a proposal. In the 8th month of 2001, 3985 police officers were placed at their disposal in 1541 and were deployed to work in the MUP, 1893 stopped them, quit working, paid severance, and what is most important 154 were returned to them on the basis of the commission. You didn't bring anyone back to work. There were over 1100 of them without a primary school, and 7,000 people you hired against the '96 ban. until 2000.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19022	Thank you. You just invited us not to take us anywhere. That's exactly what you called it. But we're moving on with an individual discussion. Dear Representative Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19023	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First, I will address Vice President Kosor to say that it is true that this morning Mr. Sanader said that he only corresponds to those who chose him, quote from the phonogram. And that if you say we are looking for your responsibilities, and that I also answer you from this place, we are responsible to those who have chosen us and who respect the democratic majority or democratic will of most Croatian voters. They're responsible for us, and I think it's the only right democratic approach. So much for who's responsible. But I think it would be through a debate on trust, that it aims to actually discuss the situation in 3 areas in Croatia. General security, economic security and efficiency of preparations for Croatia's entry into the European Union, and these three areas are in fact defined through this vote of confidence. I am aware that the Prime Minister has a strong majority in the House, however, I would like to say why do I believe that in these areas we are discussing is really his sole responsibility? Because Mr. Sanader is not only responsible for the objective responsibility of the Prime Minister, he is, in reality, acting as the minister of all resolutions and because his criteria for putting people in ministerial places is loyalty, not expertise and not responsibility. But very briefly to say what I'm going to focus on in my debate. To economic growth and prices because it is something crucial in the future development of Croatia's state. The lack of a thought-out economic policy is also due to the absence of effective measures when the crisis occurs. It is not just a situation in Croatia, it is a situation in every country, unfortunately we have such a situation in Croatia. The global economic crisis cannot bypass Croatia either, even if it appears in a milder form at the moment than it is in some other countries. Without domestic competitive production, there is no development, no raising of living standards and no better life. And the government in this area doesn't actually have an effective policy, it doesn't have an efficient industrial policy, it doesn't have a high-ranking economy, which is fiscally, which is parafiscalally burdened, so the competitiveness of domestic companies is unsatisfactory and domestic. For example, in recent months, industrial production has stagnated or even in some months and slightly dropped, and the annual growth rate for industrial production in this year is estimated to be 3 percent modest. At the same time, we have a downturn in industry. What will happen only when the shipbuilding is privatized by a model that we know little or almost nothing about? The result is higher imports and lower exports. We have achieved the historic lowest coverage of imports of only 43%, which will ultimately mean a new external debt that will be shown at the beginning of next year. Bad news is also in the area of economic growth. In the second quarter of this year we have the slowest growth of gross social product in the last 3 years and it is statistically shown at 3.4%. The IMF forecasts economic growth of only 3.8% this year, slightly less in next year. Our projections are 4 to 4.5, we're talking at the end of this government's term of office about 7%. In order to achieve this, certain measures should also be taken. European analysts also predict that the economic crisis that has hit Europe will affect the decline in exports, the decline in tourism and foreign investment in Croatia. The government has not or at least has not provided us with an answer as to how it will react. So far, more growth rates have been the result of public investment and general and personal consumption, which has largely been financed by loans and imports of products. The Croatian National Bank Governor warned of current prices and inflation a year ago. The government welcomed him as a messenger of bad news and did not take any action at that time. On all warnings that the dizzy rise in energy prices will generate growth of all product prices, there was no reaction. What are the consequences? The current 6.4% inflation, which represents a significant share of food prices in a year over 10%, electricity of more than 16%, liquid fuels are 24%. It is expected on one side to collect or reduce natural gas because it is unsustainable to obtain 50 and sell at 18 cents. Payments and pensions are stagnating, i.e. they are actually falling, and the share of food in the home budget in a large number of households reaches 40%. What's the government's response to all that? A deal with traders, producers who also receive tens of millions of kuna incentives and budget subsidies that violates the competition, but also raises doubts about favouring certain companies. Subsidies for electricity consumption are introduced, not according to which socially threatened families are required. Rather than, for example, as is done by the European Commission, which proposes to the European Parliament to reduce the VAT rate for certain products, primarily used for children, therefore children's food, shoes, clothing and energy. We have rebalanced almost a billion and a half million kuna more in the budget only on the basis of VAT, i.e. price growth and VAT growth. Instead of action, we got the Commission to monitor the prices that I guess has a function to correct the official data of the State Statistics Office. And what is the response of the citizens? The response of citizens to all this is forced savings, according to a survey published these days will be saved on energy, will be saved on car use, and 40% of households with incomes of up to 3.5 thousand kuna will be saved on food. I would like for the outcome of this debate not only to remain a triumph of the vote, but to begin to address the problems that affect this society and to which all three areas are also referred through this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19024	Thank you. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. The first is Honorable Representative Mato Bilnjic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19025	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I would, in effect, correct Mrs. Zgrebec's guilty allegations when she claimed that the prime minister was setting up ministers for loyalty, not for expertise and responsibility. Mr. Karamarko and Mr. Simunovic are certainly both professional and responsible and not party people, so they don't have to be loyal strangers.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19026	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, distinguished representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19027	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, I will correct only one of the wrong allegations of a representative lady who says and incorrectly, of course, the poor conditions of economic growth. It's important here to highlight some parameters that are just the opposite. And this is, during 2008, about 200 million kunas of state aid was allocated to build the competitiveness of certain industrial branches in Croatia. For 2007 in the small- and medium-sized entrepreneurship sector, there was a growth in export revenues by 15.4% more than in 2006. The largest exports are further achieved in the processing industry by 57% and 40% of direct exports if exports are added through shipbuilding. - Oh, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. 60% of exports are achieved by small and medium-sized enterprises in the Republic of Croatia, which no doubt points to the exceptional export potential of Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19028	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, distinguished representative Vladimir Ivkovic. Here you go. Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I would correct Mrs. Zgrebec's incorrect quote that it is, quote, "an unsustainable state of gas delivery." So the situation is not unsustainable. There are more than 540 million gas reserves in the warehouse, which clearly shows that one of the better situations regarding gas supply is and as far as the reserve for this long season is concerned, so that it does not have to worry about the unsustainable situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19030	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Krešimir Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19031	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, dear colleague Zgrebec said that the government has no effective policy in the context of economic development, and my opinion is that my colleague Zgrebec was the data she was looking at statically. But the data needs to be observed dynamically, so moving backwards for five years and then going this way. So I'm going to get some data that are just talking about how the government has a very clear and efficient policy. For example. In 2003 unemployment was 45% higher than today. So today we have 100,000 less unemployed than in 2003, and 33% is reduced unemployment. Also, the number of employees increased compared to 2003, I speak at the end of 2003, by over 150 thousand to today. And also, if unemployment is observed at 2000, there were 160,000 more unemployed than today. Also, gross...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19032	Time!
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19033	The domestic product has increased by almost 50% if we look at it in the data expressed in dollars...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19034	Time!
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19035	Or 44% if we're looking at it in euro. So all that data is saying...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19036	Thank you!
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19037	In fact, the government has a clear and efficient policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19038	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19039	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ministers. I am correcting Mrs. Zgrebec's incorrect allegations, the distinguished parliamentary MPs who said that the dizzy rise in energy prices was not adequately followed by the government and the competent ministries, and that after that, in her presentation, she would have cited a whole series of measures that the government had made in the meantime. We are also witnessing through different segments of debate, on various topics in this House, on all these measures and activities that the Government has directed towards the largest of both economic factors on the one hand and on the other, and on the other hand, social public life segments in order to reduce prices for important agricultural and in-house products. And normally afterwards according to world trends, and due to energy prices and great special concerns about energy supply, both electricity and gas-related ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19040	Thank you. We also have one replica. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19041	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Zgrebec, you mentioned that part of the economy, the government's responsibilities when it comes to wages. In fact, our prime minister loves partly the truth in this area, and today, he boasted of both the wage range and the increase in the number of employees. When you're looking at the average, and our people have long learned that the average means someone's desire, and some meat, they might be right, because really average wages if they were to compare, say, March 2003 and March 2007, it's coming in handy because the average wages have risen from 3800 to 4700, the number of legal employees from 935 to a million and 8. But when you get that average naked, then the pay distribution means the following. In March 2003. 4% of net salary workers received minimum wage, but last year the number of such workers was 5% in March. In March 2003. 54.9% of workers received wages below average. In March of last year 59.8. 5% of workers receive average salaries, so there are more who receive wages lower than average. 513 thousand of these amounted to you in March 2003, and now as many as 602 thousand Croatian workers receive monthly salaries below average. That's the 89 thousand new ones that are not inflation 6%, but 26%. So if the prime minister is responsible for the growth of average wages, how come he's not responsible for this pay distribution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19042	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19043	Thank you. I agree with my colleague, Lesar, you gave an extraordinary actually cutting and analysis of this kind of statistics that is being used. Which means having a minimum wage law, for example. when you need three minimum salaries to make that living minimum or so on. Consumer basket filled? Or what does the increase in GDP that is now shown by another statistical method mean to you? When does part of the grey economy become involved in the gross social product? But it's frightening to me that in the last few days there's been a survey and that 40% of the households have declared they're going to have to save on food. Thus, even those minimum needs of life cannot be reconciled with their incomes.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19044	Thank you. Let's go with the individual discussion further. Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19045	Dear Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. So it seems to me that the basic problem of this government, what it really has is that it has only one minister, the minister is called Ivo Sanader, the other ministers and ministers, whom I don't envy at all, represent only the transmission, so the transmission mechanism, between his will and the realization of that will. And then when it turns out that that will, let's not say it by the dense people, or if it turns out to be the wrong decision, then whoever gets hurt, not the one who came up with it, but the portable mechanism, or the transmission or some minister. And it's really not easy for ministers, I think, just because we have the concept of one man's governnce, so one man's government. In such a concept, I don't envy you a bit, many of you, and I appreciate, some not, but it is, and I especially appreciate that some of them are here with us, and it's commendable, when there's no Prime Minister, when there's no such thing as a man's govern, who somewhere out there, on the road, in opening between the highway bridge, half highways, pieces of bridge, pieces of road, I don't know, but it could have been tomorrow and this debate could have been tomorrow and it would have been the order to be together today, because he said he represented all the citizens, and then all the representatives in some way should at least respect us so much while discussing his potential resignations. So if our ministers are under constant pressure, if they're actually constantly exposed to stress, is it, today praises you, and in five days like this, as a figure on a chess board, snaps a finger, small, medium or large and you fly away, then you're in a psychologically invisible situation and we need to feel sorry for you. And we have to say, it's not easy for our government, i.e. It's not easy for a portable mechanism, it's not easy for the transmission, it's not easy for the ministers to guess if they do exactly what one man did or to bring something in from their own. I think it's one of the basic problems, because this schizophrenic situation is then being repainted to the whole society, so it's a double personality situation, I guess I'm not... I'm not even a psychiatrist, I'm not a psychologist, but here's the thing here and there, I'm finding something out of what I see. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You see, I would mention an affair that has become a symbol of all affairs and a reminder of a potential corruptive moment that possibly exists in our economy that I do not blaspheme, so I'm talking about a possible conflict of political power and crime in the economy, which is the Brodosplit affair. This Brodosplit affair that precisely because of the first minister's behaviour, the prime minister's or that man's leadership, went to the assembly while I was asking that question, I don't think he can act that way. Instead of accepting the good will of one representative, even if his name is Marin Jurjevic and he was from the SDP, he says, we'll try to solve it, God, I've experienced serious insults, completely personal nature that have nothing to do with what's called raising to a level of trouble. And you see me because the minister in the then government was head of the supervisory board, saying that the government was directly involved in this potential affair, precisely because the government had put the minister at the head of the supervisory board who had made decisions that were at least controversial still, so the government took responsibility for the legality of Brodosplit's work which it had never acknowledged. But not only that, she took responsibility for making money available to Croatian citizens. And that's where I ask the prime minister, so what about the six million dollars, and I ask all of us together rhetorically, how many of those feta prosciuttos could be cut into six million dollars, and then it becomes the biggest success of fighting corruption, so as to catch a professor who received a kilo of chopped prosciutto two months after the exam, let's give, no one takes a pound of prosciutto, no paper in which the prosciutto is wrapped. But getting rid of that fight against corruption is really funny. I'd just like to point out that a member of the board who was in charge of finance has been removed because he didn't want to sign suspicious transactions. HABOR refused to carry out the contractual transactions resulting from the so-called ‘HABOR’. On-the-spot letters which are the basis of all subsequent dilemmas and disasters, etc. Since time is running out, I'd just like to mention the role of the police. The police departments, the County of Split-Dalmatia, I must remind you that I believe she has obstructed this investigation. For the first time, the state's attorney's office directly launched a criminal prosecution, so in the case of Brodosplit, despite this obstruction, I have said it here a hundred times today and I repeat it again. First, it's the police administration while there's an investigation that hasn't been completed and when, when the smuggling is privatized, when you ask God who will be the owner and where there will be clues, beneath the ruins of that circus. So, while the investigation was still ongoing, the police administration officially issued a statement by the Split-Dalmatia County that there are no criminal offences possible, which I think is prejudged. The police administration itself needs to launch a prosecution because it had everything, all documents, but it did not and therefore the state's attorney's office for the first time in Croatia, despite the police's failure to initiate the procedure, launched the prosecution. For me who's not even a professional cop, an ordinary representative, from the people, that's how it smells. That's right. It smells so bad. I wonder what's going on and why the Prime Minister hasn't intervened, why he hasn't intervened, the responsible are different possible, none of them nice to him. Not to say that the accounts of those who are under suspicion and will end as it ends, are never blocked, I ask you why they are not blocked, not in Austria, in Croatia. .../The intruder can't be heard. And I wanted to tell you who would block her, my late grandmother. That request from the state's attorney's office has been accepted as far as I know in court, nothing has been done. ... Matushica, answer the word. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] As far as this government's behavior is concerned, I'd like to mention a more public case, so-called. a public-private partnership, in the case of Sunny Hvar, where an agreement was signed with an Orco group that no one in the public has ever seen, so some call it a secret agreement. I can only tell you that a month ago, FINA came up with an explanation, an assessment of the financial rating for the company "Suncan Hvar" where it says: "The company does not have working capital, the rate of accelerated liquidity is unsatisfactory, the current liquidity ratio is unsatisfactory, the financial stability coefficient is unsatisfactory, the ratio of current liquidity is unsatisfactory, the debt factor is ten times the permitted" and therefore the FINA state agency says and we conclude that "the business of the company is really risky because all indicators that we have calculated unsatisfactory" and concludes that "Sunčani Hvar d.d. belongs to the lowest rating class and the very high probability of default payments." I would ask the prime minister to sit there, answer me what the government did after saving actually "Sun-Hvar" in saving citizens' money and not bringing into situations the sale of privatization that went awry, and some say a public-private partnership has become a public-private robbery. That's what I'd ask him, but he's gone, so you'll tell him.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19046	I mean, I don't want to say it without saying it correctly, but the Prime Minister's being irritable, and he's gone, but there's not even your president who hasn't apologized. Thank you very much. Corrections to incorrect allegations. First of all, Honorable Representative Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19047	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, it's very short. Here is the question of why today's debate is about the confidence of the Prime Minister when the protocols of him are related to the opening of a new road which is and can indeed be said to be a special event. But let's remember, and I believe that I share the opinion of all of us from this pay phone, that a few days ago when the point of order of the SDP came to the agenda, the question of the President of the Parliament was why he was stalling and not going straight Thursday or Friday into the procedure, so it was said that theoretically it was possible the earliest working day of Monday, and otherwise we are not sitting, and the president promised that we would put it as a point of the agenda on the first day of the normal session. If we're all smart and we are, then we know that well.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19048	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Krešimir Filipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19049	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Coliga Jurjevic told our prime minister that there is only one minister in the government, so I will list a few of the terms he has made here. The transmission is about the other ministers. Pressure, stress, crime, affairs, government involved in affairs, shifts, troubles, very stinky, etc. etc. I don't know if it's according to the Rules of Procedure, but I think the whole debate of Mr. Jurjevic needs to be corrected as an incorrect assumption, because there is not a bit of correctness in the debate, not a bit of tolerance, not even a little political wisdom in me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19050	Thank you. Without throwing out the bench, Your Honor, please. Dear Representative Frana Matušić, correction of the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19051	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is incorrect that the Split-Dalmatia Police Administration has obstructed, as you said, the investigation. She did her part of the job and delivered it to the state's attorney's office. Therefore, do not try to point out that he has obstructed from the system. The second thing, when you mentioned "Sun-Hvar," it's incorrect that it's a public-private robbery, as you claim. It would be nice to prove that and to make your arguments, but I'll remind you that you've made a decision on a very suspicious one, you could say the criminal privatisation of the "Sun Hvar" you yourself have annulled. You sold "Sun-Hvar" to a phantom Slovenian firm and then you made a decision to cancel it. Now that you mention "Brodosplit" it would be nice to mention, say, Victor Lenac, where hundreds of millions of kunas of state money have been poured into your private pocket, so it would be fair that, when you're talking about affairs, you're talking about concrete and real affairs that you've been creating.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19052	Thank you. And now we're going to the replicas. First is Honorable Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19053	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Jurjevic, I wanted to correct you in an incorrect quote, but the weather is very short, red quickly burning. You said the government might have been involved in the Brodosplit affair. She may not have been dragged in, but she was involved, given that the ministers were sitting not on the board of directors, but on the board of directors, and this affair I would call her in the light of the importance of "Sladorane" d.d. The parish where two bidders called. One candidate from Osijek, who offered 133 million kuna and Viro from Virovitica 111 million kuna. By recapitalizing the Candit, he would invest another 84 million and 600 thousand kuna, the Viro, 75 million kuna. In total, the "Kandit Prime Minister" gives 217 million and 600 thousand kuna, and "Viro" from Virovitica 186 million kuna. So the difference is 31 million and 600 thousand kuna. These are not statistics or misrepresenting statistics, but these are two offers. At a secret cabinet session or closed cabinet session, the government decides to sell "Sladoran" from the Parish to Viro Virovitica. I ask you, colleague Jurovic, how much ham, not just prosciutto, but ham, cuisine and pig, will go with this? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19054	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19055	They'll be there for the cheese. At the head of the supervisory board was the minister at the time, Minister Vukelic, and therefore the implications of the government is involved and bear responsibility, which is why we sought political responsibility. It was a long-term debate. The government didn't accept that. The fact is that it is in reports, such as the European Union, it is often referred to as an affair in the first place. She did not come to an end let the court deal with how she deals, but indeed many things do not resemble the government's good will to resolve it or.... And otherwise I didn't say that a public-private partnership in Sunny Hvar, a public-private robbery rather than some say that's what they call it, so be precise, but all the same. You can figure it out any way you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19056	Don't throw it away, please. Let's move on with the replicas. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19057	Thank you very much, Vice President. You've opened up a debate with your colleague, a topic in fact, as part of my debate, which I would call the inconsistency of the Prime Minister. In 2003, you remember all of this together in the 19 billion-in-a-debt campaign, it was a disaster, bankruptcy and bankruptcy. Any debate on the structure of this debt, so how much banks, businesses, citizens owe, and how much the debt of the state, the central state of it was rejected as irrelevant, unnecessary, because all of it has to be paid back. What's the situation today? Today, Croatia's foreign debt totals more than 35 billion. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Now we should all discuss debt structure at once, so say that the state has reduced its debt structure.... What difference does it make, if the structure of the debt wasn't important in 2003, but the total debt, then it's still today. But one more thing. In those 19 billion years, the debt was created since the 1990s. By 2003, so that debt is taken over from the former state, and in these six years, not full for six years in 2003, 2008, in 2008, that debt was increased or a new debt of $16 billion and we say that we are stable, we are progressing and we are shouting. Tell me where that foreign debt line is, while we say we're not going any further, that's enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19058	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19059	Thank you. I agree with what you've said and it's good to be reminded of all this, since there have been a lot of words and statistics today, it's just proof that statistics and figures and the same terms and terms and concepts and thought structures can be interpreted differently in terms of politics. That's why we need objectivity, here's the finance minister, it's a debt no matter what we call it, and I hope we don't move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19060	Thank you. And we're moving on with an individual debate. Honorable representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19061	Dear Vice President, gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. The country in which the popular cuisine is increasingly sought, where it kills itself with a frightening ease with a strong public perception of insecurity, about the insecurity of citizens, and we will acknowledge the public is the best lawyer of democracy. So such a country is not a pleasant place to live. And since we have only one country, we have the right to ask, that is, to seek the responsibility of the first man of the Croatian government for such a situation, because if the prime minister takes credit for what is good in the country, I suppose there is one in Croatia, of course, that must be responsible for the bad one, and that is, in our opinion, much more so and I will, through my debate, point to one segment of this bad one, which is the non-functioning of the institutions of the state, i.e. legal uncertainty. So, when we got our country back in the '90s, it was a dream come true. But what our country has turned into over the past 18 years isn't a dream, it's actually a nightmare. We have become a nation of disturbed values, disturbed criteria in the country of huge social differences, the source of which is precisely in these '90s in criminal privatisation, i.e. the division of natural and produced resources, the political clientele. After the crime of privatisation, in fact, no crime is big or scary, because crime has become routine in Croatia, lawlessness, everyday life, and the threshold of tolerance of our citizens unfortunately rises from day to day from liquidation into liquidation. The inefficient police and the judiciary further strengthen the fear of citizens that no one is protecting them in this country, because the current hair promotes the technology of human rule, not serving people, or in action we could say to a model of state governance that could be described as the shortest possible division, intimidation, so rule. And it is indeed necessary to fear the authorities whose crime ministers qualify as an intersociety relationship and are proud of the cases of full appointment of state institutions as in the Pukanic case. Fortunately, some of the ministers are already former, they have been sacrificed, although according to the prime minister's assessment, they have done their job well and had his full support, and the appointed police director will now advise the new minister. Another complete illusion of change. The state has never been more centralised and less effective. If we know that the effective, or professional state administration is the best sterilizer of corruption, then it is clear that Croatia with inefficient state institutions is an extraordinary fertile soil for corruption. Croatia is a country for a rich elite that is all available and all allowed, and even to commit the most serious crimes and remain unpunished because they are powerful or powerful children. And a small man, an ordinary citizen, is increasingly pressured because he is completely unprotected in seeking justice and justice, which is the one who pays the most taxes to the Croatian state and, of course, expects the state administration to solve his problems or, as Stjepan Radic said, let me quote: "The only compensation that taxpayers have for the tax paid, are the services that are made to them by the officials and the benefits of public actions carried out at the state expense." But it doesn't work in today's Croatia. Take a look at some messages on Zagreb streets. I see them very often. Those messages say humiliation is what rules the streets. And one more thing. Laws are passed at speed five. We know that very well. And that's why they have to change too often, and that creates legal uncertainty for both citizens and for capital that is extremely sensitive to the shocks of legal change. The last example of such practice is the Law on Trade, which was amended only a month after a month of duration because of the poorly established working time of trade and catering facilities. Of course, it did not occur to the state that compensation to the owners was either a lost gain or a unnecessary payment of fines because the government experimented and the citizens paid. Moreover, the parliamentary majority votes even legal solutions against the Constitution. For example, the Road Safety Act. In addition, the law-making process does not involve a profession, what the community of knowledge or citizens is said outside, through civil society associations, unlike European political governance, which includes associations and NGOs and experts, lobbyists, trade unions, experts and, of course, citizens themselves. Because the state exists for the sake of the citizens and serves them. In Croatia, unfortunately, no one asks citizens. But that's why Croatia is often promised a lot. And the amount of promise is proportional to the amount of deception. I don't know which time the prime minister promised to deal with organized crime. In 1999, the existence of the mafia in Croatia was recognised. Let's think of a criminal organization. After thousands of pages of the indictment in prison, only one of its members ended up. The rest are successful entrepreneurs today, and their murky business is the criterion of success in business in Croatia. In the meantime, the white collar mafia has remanded all state institutions and is mocking the executive and legislative and judicial authorities by telling them, "We are stronger than all of you." All of them are seen by Croatian citizens and are therefore afraid. And that's why they've been redesigned, and fear and resection are the greatest defeat of democracy. And respected colleagues and colleagues see all this in Europe. And that's why we're still waiting outside her door, and we're not in her company. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19062	Thank you very much. We have two applications to correct the incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19063	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is incorrect that the Croatian state has never been more centralised than it is now. It's simply incorrect because we really decentralised the mass of functions and brought it down to the lower levels. Therefore, this absolutely does not stand in line with European standards and, of course, in line with our wishes to decentralisation the state. That's not what it's about. Speaking of the criminal organisation of your colleague, you must have listened very carefully a few days ago to a statement by the then state attorney who said that the then Ministry of Police of the Ministry of the Interior, Shima Lucin, along with his associates, had obstructed the investigation of the criminal organisation and the misdemeanour with the criminal organisation. And that's what you SDPs are forgetting today. The then and chief of police of your colleague sitting next to you. The state's attorney, Mr OrtinskOSIP FRISTIC, said: a few days ago publicly in the media. That you were obstructing, that the SDP was obstructing. And that's what you're talking about today.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19064	Thank you very much. The next correction to the incorrect allegations is the esteemed counterpart, Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19065	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will refer to your part of the statement that I deny, which ultimately says yes, and it is said previously of Croatia and of us: "Such a country is not pleasant for life." I must admit that within Croatia as a tourist country, as a country where hundreds and hundreds of thousands of tourists come every year when we talk about this complete concept of Croatia in the eyes of Europe and the world, we get out of this assembly and beyond our borders and you will see that in 99% of all those who come to our Croatia are above all considered beautiful with more or less good things... tourism, but above all, as a safe country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And so let's not send from here a message about Croatia which is a country that... A life that's insecure because it's just not like that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Secondly, although Matušić corrected it is true that in the context of decentralisation we have passed laws in this direction and in accordance with the European Charter and it is certain that in the time ahead of us in the term of office of this government there will be further steps in decentralisation both the obligation and the rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19066	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19067	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs so listening to this debate almost all day I simply felt the need to present some information because you know what it is, so don't hold back from me, irresponsibly providing certain data that can create a huge confusion. So that someone comes out with data that in Croatia, at 4 million and slightly more residents, only 15% of the savings are at least non-serious. But since fellow Ostojić is not a profession, so I won't blame him, there's only so much housing savings. But for you and the others to explain in Croatia there are 4 million 958 thousand 482 giro, current account or other account. So that's 100 percent more than the population. But let me look back on the time and space in which we live and where this debate is taking place. Instead of being happy that this financial crisis has practically not even ticked its effects we will feel in the real sector in the next period we here act as if Croatia is the most endangered country. The same story was about inflation. I didn't listen to inflation as if it were the product of someone's incompetence, someone's incompetence. But look what's going on today. Today, with full right, we can say that inflation is indeed the result of certain global movements. And instead of making every effort now, all of us together that those who've raised prices are justifying that it's due to the rise in energy prices just as much as when today the price of energy drops to even lower prices we're politically fighting here. And as the financial crisis is, inflation along with its initial capsule has a very important psychological factor. In this inflationary part, many of the train’s purchases jumped in without having to jump in and make some kind of illegal profit. And you can't say that the Price Commission didn't give its results. You can't say that certain prices raised by cities and other units of local self-government weren't one of the inflation generators. But right at that Price Committee, we agreed that some things just can't go at this point. Let's just think about it the same way, what stories were in the 7th month when inflation was 8.4%, what estimates were of all, except for us from the government. We were speaking from the government at the time, not to spread some false optimism, but because simply certain moves the government made had to produce results. And if there is no significant disturbance in the world market, inflation at the end of the year should not be around 6.1% or even below. All indicators at the 9th month already indicate that this will be the case. And as for this financial crisis and its impact on Croatia, you see we are from the Government, no matter what others have made their full contribution, the first had the courage to go to the Croatian public and say that the banking and financial Republic of Croatia is stable. And send a clear message to the Croatian citizens that that is the case. I was at the World Bank's annual assembly of the IMF a week ago, and I have to tell you, I've never seen so much uncertainty and so much fear in my life. So the whole financial world is shaking. And how do we behave? It's like it's none of our business. Those who clearly have no responsibility for it act. They have no real responsibility. But they have a responsibility, because each of us is responsible for what's going on. And I'm glad we reached a party consensus here in this House, practically all the political parties supported raising the amount for security savings, and so we showed that we are responsible. But when we bid on economic growth, when we bid on debts, look, what if I were to say that in the second month of the following year we will finance those loans that generated economic growth of over 5% in 2002. That would be unserious of me. And you know why? Because, however, it was less in charge of certain projects that should simply be done. But if we're going to use this rhetoric as it is here in the House of Commons today, then you might as well say Croatian citizens would hear it, even though when I talk about the financial crisis just reprogramming these achievements is perhaps the biggest problem. And don't forget one more thing, ladies and gentlemen. Let's not play with this situation, let's not make it easy to accuse ourselves. Let us not forget that the countries that have been putting on our table yesterday as an example of how to work, above all I mean the Baltic countries, some countries in the neighborhood today are in an extremely difficult crisis. Today, one Estonia, one Lithuania has far greater problems with external debt than Croatia, and unfortunately, I must conclude, unfortunately, all international financial institutions are forecasting a negative growth rate for next year. And we in Croatia instead of putting together all our strengths so that this financial crisis doesn't feel so real next year and that we have an economic growth of over 3.5% here today we come up with numbers as if it's something imaginary, as if it's not about all of us. Why am I talking about reprogramming the loan? Because, look, the banking crisis hasn't hit us in this part that our banks have been killed, but the question is how much our banking sector, which can be very difficult to get out, can have funds to finance the real economy next year. Ask yourself that question. And instead of creating a prerequisite to do it together, we act the way we behave. Because look, if we were to go along with that logic, I didn't owe 750 million euros, but I also can't charge my predecessor because some roads were made out of that 750 million and there was economic growth in Croatia over 5%. And that's something that's good. No one knew at that time that conditions on the international financial market this year or next year would be such that these loans may have to be reprogrammed on far worse terms than they were five years ago. It's another thing. I see some young colleagues waving their heads around. You know, there are far bigger economic minds in the world, so if they didn't talk about this kind of financial crisis two or three months ago, then let's not take the right to know that something was going to happen. Because look, there is no international financial institution that has not adjusted its estimates at least twice this year. At least twice. And therefore, when we talk about external duty, when we talk about this situation where the government's contribution is, so that's what I'm pointing out all the time and I think my colleague Milanovic pointed out today as something that is undeniable and we don't have to argue about. What would happen today if Croatia had a deficit of 5% or 6%? That would be 15 or 16 billion kunas where you would have to cover and finance that deficit at a time when, unfortunately, you don't have that kind of money on the domestic market or on the world market. You still have about 11, 12 billion liabilities coming to you from previous years, which you must refinance. So this is what I felt the need to say because, you know what, in times like this when exact things are spoken irrationally, it's very dangerous. And I repeat once again to this House of Higher Education and the Croatian public. I am pleased that this government has managed to preserve a stable banking system and the financial system of the Republic of Croatia with its fiscal policy and support for monetary policy, just as a stampede could have happened in the case of the Rijeka Bank. Kola Linic well knows that then the Croatian Banks Union helped with the liquidity of the Rijeka Bank, if this government had not responded, had we not made such statements as we have given, had we not received the trust of Croatian citizens that this is the case, then it would have probably been a stampede on Croatian banks as well. And then may the dear God help us no matter what political option they belong to. However, fortunately this has not happened and make sure that this government and monetary authority has clear measures and methods to stop and protect the banking and financial system of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19068	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. We have six applications for correction of the quote. First of all, distinguished colleague Ranko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19069	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. Just for a little while, and that's a correction and a false assumption about the fact that she's saving is the person who has the current account. I may be wrong again, but in this situation we really have more savings than residents in the Republic of Croatia. I accept this variant of yours, so you can show it, but then let my unserious thesis be in the so-called. The classic savings, and this is all that's left, but it's still a group of people who are primarily in debt and in the thick minus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19070	Thank you very much. Further correction of the quote, distinguished colleague Davor Bernardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19071	I'd like to correct two incorrect allegations. You said each of us was responsible for the situation in the country. I must say that responsibility must be shared when responsibility and behavior. So, if we have proposed over 1,000 amendments in this year alone, 15 legislative proposals and each of these legal proposals have been rejected, then we cannot talk about the division of responsibility and therefore you are, in fact, ruling to the most extent responsible and should simply be said. Secondly, you mentioned that the situation in Lithuania and Estonia is dramatic, that is, very difficult. Estonia had a lot of inflation. However, Estonia has had a record economic growth of 10% and the last three years I have also been with the Estonian chairman of the Finance Committee. Estonia records the surplus of the state budget. So they're not in all the trouble you mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19072	Thank you very much. Next, dear colleague Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19073	I am correcting the alleged Mr. Minister to bid with the foreign responsibility of the Republic of Croatia. No, there was no bidding, but only the data on how much the debt was in 2003, how much it is now, and it has concluded that in five years, the government of Prime Minister Sanader's debt is 16 billion dollars higher than it was before. Nothing else, and I didn't hear anyone buy that debt at the auction.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19074	Thank you very much. Here, some things are clearly already corrected, so we have two quits and the sixth registered esteemed colleague Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19075	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Is there any reason to talk about the failure of the economic policy of the Croatian Prime Minister and whether we have room for it in our request. In the SDP, we hold that and I have to say that Minister Schooker can't intimidate us with stories about how it's dangerous to talk about the economic crisis, that it's not appropriate, that we should be together now, that now it's a crisis, that it's not his moves or his calls. They're more demagogy because now they need to be together, and are we going to talk about these past 10 months that SDP is talking about? Speak up, we're ridiculed with very clear messages coming the crisis, let's change the tax policy, let's go to those who are poor, to those who won't be able to live from their work, to relieve them of their contributions, to the richer. Then how'd we do? Mr. Shuker made a public mockery of us. Is that a union? And is this difficult moment coming for Croatian workers, coming. Coming up, Croatian economic analysts announce a tough next year and it is obvious that a citizen who receives the average salary will have a hard time surviving. Do we understand each other then? We didn't understand each other, we didn't want to understand each other. We've also had an interpretation of shipbuilding. We don't care if we close our shipbuilding jobs. We don't want to lock them up. The strongest is the export branch, the most unsuccessful, but the strongest and we need to fight for jobs. Could we have found a way of understanding with the Croatian government, with the president of the Croatian government? No, I don't. You ridiculed, there's no communication on the subject at all. We also had some kind of energy interpretation and talked about the alarming growth of imports of raw materials and Croatian dependence on energy. Talk about the wrong policy of quantifying oil prices and the necessary changes because it is a battle for citizens, a battle for the economy, a battle for development. We also didn't understand each other. There's no communication in common. So in Croatia clearly within 10 months of working in this SDP Assembly has tried to influence policy change. He offered his messages a different policy and tried to say where we disagree with the Croatian government's policy, especially Prime Minister Sanader. All this because of very clear indications at the beginning of the year of the crisis situation that was present in Croatia because of the rise in energy raw materials, due to the rise in food prices and the full impact on the poorest layer of Croatian citizens. Yeah, those were SDP messages. The constructive, the discussion, the attempt to awaken a sense of communication in government at all, political communication with the opposition. Did we make it? We didn't. We failed, and now someone's trying to scare us. Don't talk now. It's a dangerous time. Yeah, that's common, you know when it's hard not now. And when are we going to? When we know that it is difficult for a Croatian worker, that the man who works and lives on his salary is difficult, and there is no change, there is no change in fiscal policy, neither in privatisation nor in the consolidation of companies. We have opened a debate on how to strengthen the industrial potential of the Republic of Croatia, the industrial potential, because it is an attempt to fight for exports. We didn't make it, we didn't make it. For all this, the SDP clearly holds responsible Prime Minister Ivo Sanader and therefore has room, there is room, because 10 months of proposals, interpretations, changes of laws other than demeaning opposition have not experienced anything, nothing. She didn't have any respect. Now that the situation is getting harder, we estimate that with people who are hard to communicate with, with the Prime Minister who isn't trying to understand what he's being told at all. The only thing we can say is we don't trust each other. We hold you accountable, and therefore there is certainly room for debate on the economy and as long as the worker cannot live on his salary, the topic must be present. You know, we didn't even mean to open the topic at this point, and what is a pension system? How threatened is the pension system because we don't deal with it? You know, but you're guessing headlines like the titles of 500 kuna less pension if you're in the retirement rate. That's what they're guessing. Anyone serious about financial management needs to see, and what's going on? We don't have a solution. We'll have a new poor woman with a new pension system, and the old pension system isn't solved either. All these problems stemmed from the fact that we do not know how to worry about decommissioning work and that with different tax policies facing a worker who cannot pay for the common needs of the Republic of Croatia, let us try to change something. This year was the year of those changes. We haven't experienced them. We also tried to make it very clear in the budget. And that is why the SDP and the debate on the confidence of the Prime Minister over the difficult conditions of the security of citizens, we have also opened the security of citizens due to unresolved economic situations.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19076	Thank you very much, Mr. Linic. We've got a few reports of correction of the quote. First of all, dear colleague Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19077	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Linic, we didn't make fun of you here in the Parliament, but we opposed the arguments when you spoke of shipbuilding. And when you were talking about what's going on in that sphere. But that's what we said, I assume that when you talk about shipbuilding, you're on the same track as us that Victor Lenac was part of it. There's been a crime scene at Victor Lentz. Here, Rijeka Bank. Well, Victor Lenac is also indirectly connected to the Rijeka Bank because Mr. Vrhovnik was the president of the Rijeka Bank Assembly. We've got to talk about this stuff. We should focus what really happened in that privatisation and all that. How many millions, hundreds of millions of kunas you put out of the state budget in your private pocket in the Victor Lenac case. That's what we need to talk about. Well, it's a crime. Who's been doing that? We're not HDZ! We're not HDZ! Well, you were that vice president of the government who was involved in all those transactions. It's you!
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19078	Time. This was an application for correction of the allegations, not for the polemics of counterpart Matušić. Dear colleague Kruno Markovinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19079	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, a colleague, Linic, once again claims that the SDP has proposed a tax to be taxed rich, which is not true because, given the sales tax, it should be remembered that hundreds of thousands of our people, most of whom are not rich, but they bought shares to actually feel that tax.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19080	Thank you very much. And third application for correction of the alleged, distinguished colleague Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19081	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, counterpart Linic said that Mr. Schuker begged, he literally begged from this pay phone, not now. Like he did something wrong, wrong. That's an incorrect quote. He didn't beg, not now, and it's not the time in the context in which you said it, but the man said don't mention the wrong data of the flat rate, don't manipulate the public, it's not good for the public to hear, I don't know that we have so many people saving. You said, what's 15%? He cited that he has more bills in Croatian citizens than he has residents. Therefore, simply misstatement confuses people, in a certain way kills people in terms, in a certain way affects one mood in any case that is not useful to both you and us, and it is simply not good and only Mr. Minister spoke of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19082	Thank you very much. Wesna Škulić, a distinguished colleague, will continue to be discussed. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19083	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Sanader, in absentia, gentlemen ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Before the start of my debate, I would express my deepest sympathy with all the families of innocent people killed in the streets, staircases, parks of Zagreb and of course all of Croatia. I would also like to express my condolences to all Croatian citizens for the death of democracy. The right to free life and non-violence definitely doesn't live here anymore. Who killed democracy and security in Croatia with his boastful behavior? Who, in addition to such an attitude, has strengthened the mafia and all other forms of violence to rule over ours and withdraw the death of an innocent victim or create permanent people with disabilities? You, Mr. Sanader, in absentia. You said you don't care what Zoran Milanovic thinks of you, and that statement directly ignored about 780 thousand citizens of this country and distanced themselves from them, their opinions, problems and concerns about their present and future. That's why I didn't call you Prime Minister, Mr. Sanader, but responsible for all these accounts involving innocent citizens. A few months ago, I read a blog called "Shake by Moral." Young brogger Juice, I don't know his political conviction, and I don't care if it's left or right, but his story. It's a story of a 20-year-old who worried about the safety and fate of his country and its citizens. He expressed this by writing on his blog about another victim of violence that we both as a society and as responsible for the safety of citizens and law enforcement ignored and forgotten. As blogger Juice on his blog wondered if any of us remembered a 30-year-old Zagreban who returned from work on May 3rd 2007, about 15 hours in Siget, saw a parked car in a yellow parking space, so for people with disabilities, believing that he was acting morally and by common sense in passing, he told them that they should not park in that place if they were not disabled and continued to walk towards his car. The last thing he remembers is waking up in the department of reconstructive and plastic facial surgery at a clinical hospital in Dubrava. Police received a detailed description of the attackers and their cars, the attack took place in broad daylight near the cafe in Zagreb. On that day, we sent a message, and whoever wants to break the law, and fight, and kill, and he will not be punished. The gentleman who defended the law, and whom I must not now say his name here for his safety, suffered in the most brutal way, remained a permanent invalid, and no one, absolutely no one stepped in the protection of man. No perpetrators were found for a year and a half, and he's afraid to go public because he's afraid of being beaten again. He's afraid of his family from the same guys who kill, hurt, beat, racketeering, steal and abuse, and the citizens of this country are trying to run their daily daily daily daily economic crisis, living day by day, trying to get home from work, from school, from the market. Because of Mr. Sanader's fear, you're responsible because the system you're headed is ineffective. Not a shred of interest has been shown for the perpetrators to be caught and sanctioned. And finally, "Bloger Just" writes, "I personally like to believe that by writing this column I am acting morally, revealing the true state of things and those who are responsible for it. How am I supposed to know that? By lying somewhere in broad daylight because of my beliefs I will lie on the street filled with my own blood with a pulse or without it, obviously."
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19084	Thank you very much. We have one application for correction of the alleged, distinguished representative Kruno Markovinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19085	I'm afraid I have to correct my colleague. The death of democracy did not occur with us, be assured, but the death of democracy could have happened. Here's a quote from the press: "to be fulfilled" writes the journalist "Milanovic's desire for power at all costs, so if it is necessary to call for a kind of blow and collapse of the democratically elected government". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19086	Thank you very much. Next is the debate of distinguished counterpart Bruno Kurelic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19087	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The current course of this debate brought me back to my youth as a young doctor, then my superior used to tell me the following formula: "Responsibility is something that not everyone can handle." The classic of Croatian sociology Dinko Tomasic spoke of two types of culture in these areas, in charge and tribal. The painful birth of Croatian democracy, an imposed war, opened a wide door to the leadership of tribal elements in Croatian politics. Final result, national wealth robbery, obtaining and maintaining power to all available so-called. democratic means. You yourself know that the number of voters in the voter lists is constantly increasing, opening up the possibility of any desired result being achieved by extra voters. Gentlemen, I repeat, cca 500 thousand voters were listed in the voter lists in the Xth Election Units in the Republic of Croatia more for last year's parliamentary elections than they had according to all relevant indicators of voting rights. So 500 thousand false voters. In XI. The election unit was also voted by the dead, which is indeed an unusual election potential. Gentlemen, the work has become a haven for the lost, and fraud, hypocrisy, I won't tell a lie but not telling the truth becomes allowed ways of conduct. The state loves it enormously, but tax evasion is not considered a punishable act. The people usually say that what was created illegally or at least immorally is difficult to maintain and upgrade and especially not in the context of morals and ethics. People from the edge of their lives have become successful entrepreneurs, on the basis of mutual benefits they are linked to politics, but also politicians, in the '90s, along with rhetoric "it is known", and today they act according to "let's move on". It opens a door of uncertainty in this country. The situation deteriorates from day to day, institutions do not act or act in the wrong direction. A crime without punishment develops lawlessness, lawlessness creates an image of inorganization and feelings of uncertainty. There is no moral or political responsibility, the affairs are piling up and this society goes on under Mr. Prime Minister's conductor's baton. Eve Sanader. Since a picture of the general uncertainty considered by the SDP, Prime Minister Ivo Sanader's government, was created in public, it is time to ask Mr. Prime Minister, now prime minister in absentia, if you consider Mr. Prime Minister politically responsible for the state's uncertainty situation. 20.10.2008 in a street survey on the question: Do you consider the state of uncertainty on the rise? The passerby answers about this: Everything is seen, everything is heard, it is up to us to remain silent. We here gentlemen must not remain silent, for then what is the purpose of our representative's actions. These people can't live in fear. For a long time, the SDP has indicated a steady deterioration in the security situation in the Republic of Croatia, beatings, killings, however, the prime minister highly assessed efficiency, I would so, under the alleged signs that they were not injured, called guards of such security by his former minister, as if we had lived each and every one of us in his world. The prime minister's events caught up, he didn't react, and then after the murder of a young lawyer in the middle of the day, he announced a strong struggle with the mafia, the government's determination to change the minister with the noise of the media, so reason speaks. The system doesn't work for us, gentlemen, but the prime minister is still trying to deny the relationship between the shift and the objective responsibility of the removed. Is that the original political brand of Croatia? And then the coalition partners come forward. The training of the democracy of the number of hands begins or historical solutions are offered to the functioning of the Government of the Community in distress. Thank you for understanding democracy. No matter what politics or SDPs are, it doesn't deny the ability of new personnel solutions, how do we now believe that suddenly the police will be depolitized? I will now go to an area that is close to all of us in Croatia. They say every Croat has the potential of a football and political scientist. That's why sports is a special football match, but football events are best compared to the famous Krležina sentence: "And when the lights start in the Balkan pub" you know what begins. Who still remembers the 2005 murder of Dina Pokrovec, or it fell into oblivion, as well as other murders. They gave football managers in this area successful entrepreneurs or associates, and then victims of the mob. Two and a half years ago, he was beaten with bats in front of his own apartment by Mr. Luka Bonačić, coach of Hajduk, and then said he and three of the latest coaches of Hajduk had left the club before him, because they had been ruled by the mafia. Croatian gentlemen are at the stage of an appointment. I say State of law appointments. An institution does not act in the fight against organised crime, because crime has entered the system into the functioning of the state. Do you think that citizens believe that there are no persons in Croatia who have been able to handle cases of violence, or murder very successfully in Croatia so far? Not long ago, a famous police inspector said about this way: "Police is a guard dog and acts as long as it allows the length of the chain." It's obvious that one of the fundamental elements of the democratic state has come into question in our beautiful country, it's the right to live. Who should be responsible for this, if not for the prime minister who is at the head of the executive office in this country. Thank you very much, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19088	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. A fellow representative, Boris Kunst, came forward to correct the allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19089	Dear Vice President, the MP has brought it out here, says institutions are not acting in the right direction. That's incorrect. I would agree with what his boss told him, that responsibility is something that no one can handle. Surely, then, a representative should be responsible for what he said, because not everything and everything has to be said just for something to talk about. And I believe and I'm sure the public will know who next paints the Croats, and it's not Easter yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19090	Thank you very much. In addition, an esteemed colleague, representative Ana Lovrin, came forward to correct the allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19091	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So here's a series of incorrect allegations I'll look back on just two. And it's the first that institutions in the state don't act, that there's a series of affairs that ended nowhere. Just the other way around. The institutions in this country are very much working primarily because they have been strengthened and have been given a legislative framework, and what are called affairs, which are "Maestro", "Diagnosis", "Gruntovec", "Zagrebačka Roads", are not an affair but are already the activities of the institution in this case of USKOK and the State's Attorney's Office aimed at pursuing corruption, middle and high levels and dear colleagues are all pending before the court, in the phase of the investigation or in the phase of the debate. What can be called an affair, which is an affair, is, for example, "Viktor Lenac" by his then director who really remained an affair because he never reached the State's Attorney's Office or the court. And yet another false allegation that people know everything and must remain silent. Just the other way around. Right now, a situation has been created that people do not have to remain silent, to recognize institutions that can protect themselves, and evidence of this is a thousand-tier indictments of organised crime and corruptive crimes, and also more than 60% of the number of USKOK citizens have been increased because they recognised USKOK as such an institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19092	An esteemed colleague, Dragutin Lesar, came forward. Here you go, Comrade Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19093	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, have you asked the Prime Minister if he feels politically responsible? No, because Prime Minister Ivo Sanader is responsible for all the good that happens to Croatia. For all that's bad behind every bad one, so if it were his choice, he's innocent. Of all the bad and every bad he washes his hands like Pontius Pilate. That's why he can't be politically responsible.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19094	Thank you very much. Replication response. Dear colleague Bruno Kurelic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19095	I really have nothing to add to this supplement of his, because they wash their hands like Pontius Pilate washed them. You've been very good at quoting that.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19096	Thank you very much. The following has been registered for the debate by a distinguished counterpart, Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19097	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Five years of pushing under the carpet of real problems in society and avoiding solving those issues that Croatia is asking both the time and environment in which we live, it has been spent as a method and as a principle of gentlemen. Not only was it spent, but you allowed Croatian society to divide into two large ones, I would say enemy camp, into two large classes. And to those who have everything, and to those who have nothing. And the prime minister is nothing but the chairman of the board who manages the general affairs of those who have everything. There's no Minister Shuker, but I have to say he was touching his performance, and this isn't his first time. This is not the first time he has called us from this pay phone and held lessons and calls for understanding of support, to join forces in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. But as my esteemed colleague Linic said, it is a pure demagogy that wishes responsibility for not having a concept of solving key problems in this country, to be transferred to someone else. And that's not a responsible policy, gentlemen. Responsible policy is a policy of solving the problem, not of transferring and socialising responsibility. And the inflation rate is the highest in 15 years. The country's debt keeps growing, but Minister Shuker says that these are global movements and that we can actually get worse. The wages are stagnating and in reality they're actually falling. There's no solution for that. It's not manufactured. There's no solution for that. We import more than we export. There's no solution to that either. So I ask you gentlemen who's responsible? Who's responsible for that? The average salary in the Republic of Croatia barely reaches a third of the average salary in Europe. But prices, prices are because, at prices, we've actually been in Europe a long time ago. Who is responsible for making Croatia an increasingly poorer country every day? Or maybe we're not aware of those facts? And Croatia is getting poorer. And they are well - aware of that, and those who live by their honest work understand it very well. One quite devalued category unfortunately in this country. That's what citizens understand because they're forced to save. Because they are forced to tighten belts and to save not only on basic essential needs such as food but also on health and education. It's hard to imagine how some households will survive and how they're going to reduce small and poor spending anyway. I'd say that the great majority's standard of living has really fallen to the lowest branches, and a small number of the richest has become even richer. Someone's got to be responsible for this or isn't anybody? Mr. Dr. Ivo Sanader runs a policy that put society in a position that those who don't, who, that those who don't get anything done. They're doing a lot of work. And those who gain to do nothing. Elita piles up her fortune and most are getting poorer. And how do you survive your work? How does an average citizen of the Republic of Croatia survive? We know that very well. Credits. Because the loans became the ones that provide for the standard and consumption of Croats today. Citizens have reached nearly six billion kunas this year. There's no more expensive loan than that minus you have in your current account. On average, we owe almost 14 salaries. They're in charge of a naked life. Not for luxury. For basic existential needs. Bank debt never stops growing and in the last four years it has risen from 52 to 110 billion kuna. Don't just tell me it's like that in transition countries. Well, the credit responsibility of the Croats is half as high as in most transition countries. Who's responsible for what I'm talking about? In the inability to provide citizens with a normal existence and a decent life, you have brought citizens into a state of debt slavery. And not only are you unable to protect the citizens but you have brought them into a situation to wonder if they must protect themselves? And when you bring your people into debt slavery, there is no more suitable ground to strengthen the mafia, blackmail, interest and integration into criminal organizations. I'll finish with the next one. According to my deep belief and I have the right to do so, you will allow Croatia to shoot at seams in all segments and this government often uses palitative solutions, intervention measures, short-term measures, extraordinary presses and plays that send a message to the public: Well, we were working on it. That's exactly what we've been working on. And the matrix that's been happening over the last five years is the most consistent phenomenon in this government's policy. And you know what it is? Better their heads than my head hair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19098	Thank you very much. Reports of correction of the quote. First of all, dear colleague Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19099	The Honorable Vice President in this demagogue debate would give a lot of incorrect allegations and even the whole debate would be incorrect. But I'm just gonna look back on something. It's not even worth it, but it doesn't matter. He says, "Croatian society, yes, that this government has divided into those who have nothing and those who have everything or citizens have been brought into debt slavery." So beware that this government has given a great deal of money from the budget to those where it had to recover those differences that were created somewhere between 2000 and 2003. The pensioners were paid back by this government, correcting that injustice by the old new pensioners. Then this government paid back to public officials who had been cut by 30 to 40 percent. Then this government was returning money to public officials who received litigation where she deliberately did not want to honor the collective contract with employees. And now I could count a lot more. That's all the facts. And then there's a colleague playing a little bit in this debate, so this is what she's saying, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19100	Thank you. Further correction. Dear colleague Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19101	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague said unfortunately incorrectly and unfortunately incorrectly that the Croatian state is increasingly poorer and poorer, that Croatian citizens are increasingly poorer. That's not true. And the state budget also speaks for it, but it also speaks for the ability, creditability of Croatian citizens and the value of their real estate. So they're richer. Croatian citizens are richer than 5, 3, 5, 10, 15, 20, 25 years ago. ... The credit and budget is higher and Croatian citizens are really in debt according to their own capabilities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is therefore incorrect that the Croatian state is getting poorer. She's getting richer. I hope that all of us together will contribute to making it richer.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19102	Thank you very much. We have two applications for replication. First of all, dear colleague Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19103	Dear colleagues, among other things, you said that this government has been pushing many problems under the carpet for many years. I would like to assure you that there is no carpet under which all of what the government has produced with HDZ in the past five years. They haven't nailed it, nor will they gnaw it, and not even my colleague from Bedekovina, who otherwise defends the local textile industry, is able to ensure that such a large piece of fabric is covered. I'll remind you that over the first four years HDZ has planted a collegiate affair that seven governments in a row would envy, so we can count them all you want. Among other things, your last affair when you mention the president of my party is that as a gum gum, you stretch the laws as you please. And one more thing is very important. When it comes to this ability of the government, I don't know if you know that the Central Government Office has 25,000 unsolved performances. So here's so much about the efficiency of your government we've been hearing all day through the corrections of incorrect allegations. Do you have anything to say through discussion and replica, not through corrections? So will your entire term pass in correcting false allegations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19104	Thank you very much. I may have made an injustice to my colleague's representative with the information of my colleague, the Crown. Whether he gave up or not to correct the allegations, counterpart Kresimir Gulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19105	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I have to correct a few, at least an incorrect quote from a colleague when she said that the state was poor, and in particular she pointed out that citizens were forced to save in education. In fact, I have to deny it because over the past four years, two and a half billion kunas have been allocated to education more than four years ago. So the state cares about education, and also to say that the state has provided free textbooks and free transportation for our students and students. I think that's proof that this government cares about education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19106	Thank you very much. And we have an application for a replica, a respected colleague of Dragutin Lesar's. Comrade Lesar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19107	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague, you've asked six questions as to who's responsible. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to ask you six questions about who's responsible in Croatia with three new ones. Who is responsible for the fact that Croatia annually as the Government says about the promotion in agriculture or food production gives almost 4 billion kuna, while at the same time importing food worth 12 billion kuna. Who is responsible for importing 53,000 tonnes of meat into Croatia last year, and this spring with a secret cartel of 4 largest buyers of artificially created, excess living cattle on the market to be bought later by 6 kuna these same, secret cartels that were made to create an artificial surplus in the offer. And who is responsible that all these years neither the Croatian Government has conducted an analysis of the effects, the effects of these incentives, and who in three basic goals are these incentives and achieves them. Whether the incentives have increased food production in Croatia, whether the incentives have reduced the cost of production, including the price of food and whether we are creating a balance between production and need. There was more and more money and indeed never did Croatia give so much incentive to produce food, but it was never so much a large import of food in Croatia. As the incentives grow, the amount of imports and the uncovered imports of food into Croatia are increasing. So much for the agrarian reform of the coalition government headed by Prime Minister Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19108	So there's no interest in replying to the replica. Thank you, colleague. And here comes the debate of the distinguished colleague Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19109	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, I'll start with my colleague Lesar's answer, and that is, he continued on to the questions that my colleague Jerkovic also asked who was responsible. We in the SDP consider Prime Minister Ivo Sanader responsible, and therefore as a club, we have launched a non-confidential procedure. I am sitting in this House as well as my colleagues and colleagues on this side thanks to the voices that some of them have already said 780,000 citizens here today. I believe that this fact deserves respect and gives me the right, me and my colleagues, to seek the responsibility of the Prime Minister, the Government or any minister when we consider the situation in the country to be so serious that it does. We do it as a responsible opposition here in Parliament, in Parliament, and where elsewhere, I guess not on the street, not somewhere on some waterfront chained with chains covered by Ustasha signs, songs and greetings or perhaps picking chestnuts. Now it's chestnut time, so maybe we could go out to the streets and read chestnuts. Does that sound like coworkers and colleagues familiar to you maybe? Just remember that time when you were an opposition, and then instead of being here today through your incorrect allegations you honor and remind yourself of what it was, what it was like at the time of the coalition government, and like today, everything is wonderful, so that you are not here in Parliament as a responsible opposition asking for more trust from then Prime Minister Racan and any member of the government or government as a whole. No, you were the opposition you were and you'd rather do it out there. When we speak today, the prime minister himself talked about the problem of the increasing showing of the constitution, the Ustasha greetings, and everything related to the recent match Croatia – Andorra and the truly scandalous scandalous scandal of the entire stadium and we have witnessed the last few days I would say the conversions to say, the wake-up of the prime minister, and with that, I suppose, the HDZ of how extremely harmful it is, how inadmissible it was, so it was a little convenient to observe both the government and the Parliament members who sat behind him and in front of him and when that was so, when he was saying, and they were alone in their peaceful sitting not only at that game but more times earlier, therefore, by their inaction and such an atmosphere, among others, in our stadiums, but not only in our stadiums. Why do I think Prime Minister Sanader is responsible? These days, it revolves on one blog for 66 reasons, or at least 66 reasons why Prime Minister Sanader should no longer be prime minister. I believe that it is Prime Minister Sanader's responsibility because he first set up the system of government that we have in Croatia today and put himself in that place that he is absolutely responsible for all this, of course he is also responsible especially for what seems to be good. But first and foremost, I believe that Prime Minister Sanader is responsible because he has been cheating on the citizens of this country for several years in a row. I know that this word in your case is causing disdain, but you know, how else do you call what Prime Minister Sanader has been doing in our public for the past few years than by deception? How else do you call it when, for example, the public assures that there is no fear of inflation. And even more so, others are falsely accused of spreading disturbing news. Isn't public deception when it speaks and guarantees that gasoline won't collect above a price? Is it not a public deception to convince citizens that various committees will address the issue of price savageness, and at the same time this commission has done nothing for months and allowed these prices to continue to rage? Wasn't it public deception when a minister of the interior was sent here recently to the Parliament, then Minister Roncevic to help you and your colleagues and colleagues of HDZ advocates talk fairy tales and convince the public about the good security situation in the country, and a few days later, his shift occurred and then again the prime minister assured the public that there was no such thing in any way, as he said about the connection with the murders that happened that very day? Well, isn't cheating on the public that there are already several years since then what has been said about the determined and uncompromising struggle with the mafia, with organised, less or more organised crime, and in fact it has been shown that nothing has happened in these few years to make those words come true or it seems absolutely insufficient, slowly. It was important to publicly expose certain actions, and in fact, in the end, we come to the conclusion that they will soon become not only unsolved, but also forgotten cases. Isn't that right, colleagues and colleagues of public deception? Because here, a few days ago, the prime minister announced a decisive struggle, uncompromising with organised crime, crime and the mafia. Because then he's been fooling the public that he's been doing it for the past few years? He didn't do anything for me. The prime minister is also responsible for this piece of paper that we received in, therefore, the government's statement on a request to vote for mistrust because he signed the paper, which, among other things, stated that the government had achieved extraordinary results in terms of social sensitivity towards the most vulnerable groups of society. Actually, it should have been written like this. Dear citizens, you only see that you live worse. You dearly see our pensioners only. You just don't seem to be able to live well with 2,000 kunas from month to month. The average pension, colleagues and colleagues, liked it with your ears or did not amount to 2119 kuna. You didn't write that in this material with all possible additions, and that's a pathetic 40% average salary. And colleagues and colleagues, more than 500 thousand pensioners receive a pension of less than 2000 kuna. Did you correct the injustice against the new pensioners as you wrote? In February of this year, I asked the prime minister a parliamentary question, and I asked him if he knew that even after that law, 200 thousand pensioners had received, the lowest incomes between 500 and 1500 kuna did not have the right to add to their pension. He has no right to any addition. At the time, the prime minister couldn't answer me, but in a response I received after two months from the government, I also didn't get an answer. That the least of your concerns is that the most endangered population is saying that, if something didn't know then, then it must have been found out in all these months that absolutely nothing had happened and that it would improve the position of these pensioners. You keep talking and boasting that you've paid back your debt to the pensioners. Well, gentlemen, that's the most honest thing you could actually do. To repay the debt because in the period when you were in power before 2000, you took that money thanks to your actions. In the period until 2000, most of the new pensioners were retired, the most closed jobs. I'm sorry, today the sparrows at the branches know it wasn't just about the war, just for the war and the war. However, it should also be said that the pensioners of that debt you paid back have patched up their holes, but in the end, pensions remain as they are. There's no increase in pensions. With that average pension of two pensioners, he can't survive from month to month. And as has already been said, it begins to be saved on food, whether you like it or not. The latest survey made by 25% of all households in Croatia will be dedicated to food savings. Of that, 40% of those who have household income are 3500 kuna. My colleagues and colleagues, these amounts cannot be survived, among other things, and that is why I will vote for a vote of no confidence in Prime Minister Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19110	Thank you very much to my fellow MPs. We've got a few applications for replication. First of all, distinguished colleague Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19111	Dear fellow Sobol. You said you only held the Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader responsible. I'm not at all surprised by your conclusion because so far in these few years we've established that the other members of the government can't be held accountable because they didn't know. Say Minister Calmeta didn't know what his driver was doing. Then Ministers Shuker and Polancec didn't know what their vice presidents were doing to the Privatisation Fund. So then Minister Calmeta didn't know why she picked up the highway on average one kilometer three times compared to the prices before him. Well, then he didn't know why the interlocking road to Gagenica cost those millions of people, and the records, too, because he just didn't know. Then former ministers Kirin and Roncevic can't be responsible for the state of police because they simply didn't know things. The Deputy Prime Minister and the Defence Minister are not responsible for the fact that a number of false defenders have been found in the defence register and that the general section of the register has been declared secret. So when members of the government don't know, then of course he's responsible... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19112	Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Representative Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19113	Dear Mr. Vice President, Article 207 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure, which means you're the only one to give the word. I have nothing to add, it's yours to make warnings. I mean no one else can...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19114	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. I think I've been saying it out loud and giving it away, but as time goes on with the bell, I guess we should have something else to calm down, I believe that's going to change. Dear counterpart Boro Grubisic reported on the replica. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19115	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues Sobol speak here, I can quote: "It is difficult to deceive the Croatian public". It is difficult to deceive the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and you said it was the prime minister. So you called him yourself. I think that the fellow MPs were deceived here, their opinion of my fellow MPs on this side, so from the coalition, because we were witnesses here 10 days ago that the report on the work of the police and the Ministry of the Interior, about the statistics that were brought here, and then only a few days later, the police minister was removed as well as my colleague Lovrin, the minister of justice, who is here with us here in the benches. So I wonder why you so barbarously defended the position, character and work of Minister Rončević, and when it came to the shift, no one said a word about it to Mr. Minister who has so much brought attention to the debates and so many positive assessments about his work in his portfolio. Whose opinions have been let down? Who's been deceived here? Or it's about autocracy with a certain half-breed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19116	And third application for replica, MP Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19117	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Members, isn't it public deception and the supervision of democracy when the Prime Minister says the government must win at all costs by changing the will of citizens, changing the will of citizens, buying councilmen, parties, independent lists, money from the state budget, and very rarely these promised projects come to those units of local self-government. Isn't it a hoax when two ministers are relieved of what their colleague Grubisic said, the day before they are praised, and then under public pressure they are removed. I am now wondering what will we do and what will the former interior minister do now and how will he repay his loan to that big apartment and will he return to the Croatian forest or as such incompetent minister be the adviser to the new minister? And isn't it public deception, and we also have an advocate that this secret report, Bajic's report on the mafia, so the state's attorney's report should be read in "The Globe", "The National", and I don't know what, where a man says nicely that the mafia uses sophisticated forms of corruption in relation to the government, that the state is powerless to combat organised crime, that the state is incompetent and corrupt in the eyes of the media and citizens. Is that public deception, too, or will that same state attorney be removed within a few days? The question should be answered by the Prime Minister by resigning, and by others who are with him.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19118	The reply to the replicas, the esteemed representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19119	Here's just for a little while, and together, since you've all been kind of talking about the problem of public deception. Yes, unfortunately, and the problem is, so let's not deceive one man but with help and a lot more, so colleagues and colleagues who are in this hall and who have participated in these delusions, but since we are currently in the position of opposition, we have the right, we have the responsibility to ask both Prime Minister Sanader and members of his government for what I will use that word again, deceive the Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19120	Thank you very much. My colleague Miranda Mrsic, on the basis of your application, I give you my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19121	Mr. Vice President, it was our intention to address the prime minister, but the prime minister is in absentia, there are more important jobs than being here, and we've been talking all morning about his responsibility for the country's overall situation. My colleagues talked about it all, and I'm going to talk about something else, about wanting to live and work in a happy and safe Croatia. Mr. President doesn't have you, but I'd be happy if it meant it meant being healthy in Croatia, and you've been at the head of this government for six years now, and so far, the safety and trust of citizens in the health system has been getting smaller and smaller. Citizens don't feel safe, and you'll say, like many ministers in your government, that the system is changing, that we redesign it, and that steam that all ministers, and together with them, say that health reform is ongoing, so how long it takes, we'll see how long it takes. But citizens think otherwise, they think you're taking away the last security they have, which is that when they're sick, they don't have to sell everything to cure them and that if they don't have the money, Mr. Prime Minister, they die. This is what the health system that your administration is declaring offers to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The government, under your guidance, has forgotten about citizens and is building a system that is socially insensitive. The government is socially blind and wants the health system of the Republic of Croatia to go into private hands and create an American type of health care. That's what we've had a chance to see in the last few months. Do we want a system like that? No, Mr. President, we don't. We want to live in safety, we want to be treated when we're sick. We don't want to be sent home, like in the American system if you don't have insurance and if you don't have money, they say go home, bring the money or die. It's American health care. Have you or your advisers ministers asked the citizens of the Republic of Croatia how we want this health care, because our fathers and grandfathers have singled out for this kind of health care that we have, and this is solidarity and is available to everyone. The citizens of the Republic of Croatia do not want to engage in debt slavery because they do not have the money to pay for their health insurance, to pay for the operation, to pay for the diagnostic search, and that these funds go to other areas. But before that happens, health care wants to tycoonize but here are a few numbers that probably Mr. Secretary knows very well. The Croatian Health Insurance Office owes 4.3 billion kuna, of which 1.5 billion kuna is a constantly increasing debt. In 2008, HZZO spent 9.8 billion kuna or almost 9% more than last year. There was also a loss of 636 million kuna. Gentlemen, this year we will achieve a loss transferred from last year, over 2 billion kuna. At the same time, Mr. President, you were probably informed that there was a debt to prescription medications of about 1.5 billion kuna, and that for the overall health care, that means that we are doing what we do and how we are being treated 9.56% more resources are being spent, but we are recording a decline in services in primary health care, we are recording a fall in consular health care, and at the same time in hospital healthcare is being extended b.o. the day, so several days are spent on the usual treatment, which says the system does not meet the needs. This year we will issue 40 million recipes or 2 million more than last year. Are we sick desires or should the system be rationalized? The drugstores' debts are increasing by 85 million kuna per month, and prescription debts are being talked about some debts to others, and they are talking about debts to the hospital system, and they are not talking about debts to prescription medicines that will be more than 1.4 billion kuna this year. We said it would be paid in 120 days, paid in 270 days. So, Mr. Prime Minister in absentia, the state of health is not good. Mr. Prime Minister, health care is like a patient with a severe fever, and instead of treating him, you let him have blood. Because what we would call a whole series of decisions that our money flows into private pockets. It is proposed that 2% of the HZZO budget be poured into the hands of private people, that the Croatian Health Insurance Office loses 3 billion kuna, that additional radiological tests were heard in private clinics these days without public competition, and that 2 million of our kunas are expected to have new innovative sub-basements of private assistance at the expense of the public health system. Mr. Prime Minister, when will you publicly tell those who will be treated according to the principles of modern medicine, let those who have the means be treated, and they do not, who is to blame, because you and your minister are believed to be waiting in America for 10 years for surgery, waiting for the poor, and the rich are being treated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19122	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. We have an application for a replica of the Honorable Vice-President of the Assembly of Member of Parliament Zeljke Antunovic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19123	Thank you very much. counterpart Mršić said that people in Croatia want to be treated and are worried about falling into debt slavery. This is only partly true because people are not concerned and are not afraid of debts that will arise only because they are being treated, unfortunately citizens in the Republic of Croatia with their salaries and pensions cover only 70 or 60% of the total costs they need to survive in the month. And for the rest, they sort of get along and survive. Normally, the government is not responsible for everything, but the government is responsible for paying in Croatia as the prime minister said this morning, growing, and the less we can buy for them and the more we are poorer. Some will say we're not poorer, but I'll say we haven't been richer or richer in ten months, and we can say for the past four years we've been taping in place. There are no positive shifts, there are no shifts, and there are no reliefs in the economy or economic standards, and there is no change in the growth of human living standards. And that's why the government is responsible. It is responsible for not implementing or non-structured real economic policy, tax policy and all other policies that have a significant impact on how we live, how insecure we are and how much we fear this debt slavery. Not as something that will happen to us in the future, but as something that is happening to the great majority of citizens in Croatia, unfortunately, but very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19124	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica, distinguished colleague Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19125	Dear Mr. Vice President, Honorable colleague Antunovic is one of the topics that is important at the moment, and this is a matter of financing the health system and will people be able to finance the health system that we have and which has brought us that much, how many are my fathers, my grandfathers and all of us have singled out in this system with the idea that one day when they are sick, they don't have to sell the house, that they don't have to be in debt to get an adequate health care service. On the other hand, there is a tendency for the health system and health care system to be pushed into private hands. The private initiative in the health system is not at all something that shouldn't be encouraged, but we shouldn't encourage at the expense of our funds, at the expense of our money that we've all been singled out into the system together to treat ourselves and others, and all of us here when we're sick, we're being treated by those who are healthy, and we're isolated that we can be treated. What's the problem is that these private pockets are filled without a public tender and without any other instruments if already, if we're giving state resources to privates, then it's time to at least call a public tender and report to the public tender for those who have the most favourable offer, not to do it directly by contract. I don't think it's under any public procurement law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19126	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government for word came the Honorable Mr. Health Minister Darko Milinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19127	Thank you, Mr. President. You can tell us anything, but right and right to success can't. I'll say this the last time. I'm surprised that you're in the health system and you don't know that we can't put health care on a public tender and on the basis of a public tender to assign jobs to this House of Health, to this hospital or to those in the insurance system. And what we are, I know it may not suit you, but what we've done these days, we've said we're going into a decisive blow, and once again I'm saying, not to corruption in the health system in what kind of perception of corruption in the health system is. We decided to deal with what you didn't have the courage to do, and we do, and you can't take that courage away from us, and I thank you as if we had agreed. I already thought no one would mention health care, so let me explain. Today with private insurance companies already having a contract with the Croatian Health Insurance Office, it is not a new contract. But you're going with that manual to an insurance private house, you're going to the head magnet, and you have to pay four thousand kuna. It's like that now. And this government has managed to make sure that you don't pay for it, not you, but HZZO doesn't pay four thousand kuna, but one thousand kuna. And we are indeed responsible for it. For four thousand kunas, we've built that we can't make one magnet but four magnets. We have reduced the service price not 3, not 4, not 10%, not 100%, not 200%, but 300%, we have reduced the service price. I invited privates as the prime minister invited food producers. We feel the situation as it is and I will turn to the right side, but it seems to me that we know better about the difficulties of the citizens, so as the prime minister said to the food producers, "You can live well from 5% margin. It shouldn't be 50%." Because we need to feel the weight of life today in Croatia or the financial market crisis America, the world, Europe and I want to thank you without hair in the language of private entrepreneurship in Croatia. I want my country to be more competitive than Bosnia and Herzegovina, rather than Serbia, than Bulgaria, but also some other European countries and they have come out and instead of making two thousand of these reviews by the end of the year, we will make them 10 thousand. But it wasn't a decisive hit on the waiting list. I'll mention the stents. They may be the most painful. It's a clinical hospital center in Rijeka. Because of what you told me that in 31.3., the directors who break the limit will be removed. No, I don't. But those who do not know how to do business will be removed. And those 66 principals just brought us to have today to rationalize additional funds, and now listen to this. KBC River, stent, we all know heart attack life issue, will reduce, I spoke to the head of cardiology yesterday. I'm saying, are you sure that's what the principals did, that you're gonna cut it down? It says here: In the action plan to reduce waiting lists, to fight corruption perception, we will not resist the kind of demagogy you sell. And these and your colleagues from Rijeka say, "We're not going to cut 50%, we're going to cancel the wait list for stents by the new year." I'm proud. And together we'll control it if it's the river, did the river say it? Your demagogy that we have fewer services, so here I am inviting you to the Croatian public tomorrow, you and I will go to the press. 200 thousand views more, not 10, not 5, but 200 thousand reviews more in the healthcare system the same period this year and compared to the reason, with the same period last year. Would you like to go to the Croatian Health Insurance Office with the press tomorrow? You say there's less. And I'm saying there's 200 grand more. You deceive the Croatian public. You say there are less treated patients. There are five thousand and 600 more in the same period. If you like, I invite you and the press to go to the Croatian Health Insurance Office tomorrow and have someone apologize to the Croatian public. You deceive the Croatian public, especially with what you say about demagogy. Sell your house, and if you don't, he'll die. No one will die in Croatia because there is no money. If that's how they appreciate the budget for particularly expensive drugs, maybe it burns someone, we've raised by 100%. From 200 to 400 million kunas and said: The profession when it says that someone needs a cure there is no way in Croatia not to be approved. Not in three months, as it was in your time, but in two weeks. I am responsible for this and the health system according to many indicators and the world health organization, you know as well as I do, of the 200 countries 36 are on the ranking list. World Health Organization, Health Cities, Conventions, Health Cities Conference. I was one of the hosts. And the host must be decent. But I told the 135 mayors from Europe and the world who were in Lisinski. As a host, I may not have wanted to, but I said I was proud to be in charge and that I am a member of this government that is and in whose country the health system is one of the most organized in Europe. And I said, "We appreciate what is good in Croatian health, and together we call out, let us call out what is wrong." And I am proud that I am a member of this government and that the prime minister has an exceptional sensitivity to those who want to regulate a health system that has extraordinary responsibility along with the other members of the government and with me as minister point to lies, forgive me for the expression, untruths, I apologize. It's not good to mention... But to the lies you've just told. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm calling you again. Mr. Representative, fellow MP tomorrow at 12 o'clock at HZZO. I'm waiting for you with the press. We've got 2,000 exams more than last year in the same period, 5600 patients over. We need to point out those who are muddying the health system unjustly, and that's you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19128	Dear counterpart Davorko Vidovic believes there has been a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19129	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, there was a breach of the Rules of Procedure because you did not warn the official of State Mr. Milinovic to share, He's an officer this House has hired to give its grades, comments and insults just as well as demagogy. [[Intruder: He's a minister.]] He can't say it's demagogy. It's not his job. He's here to speak for the government in fact, not to qualify anyone and to express his views. You must warn. A colleague if he wants to argue, then you can go to the constituency benches, and the civil servants have no right to do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19130	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister has also presented a series of data, and we have six applications to correct these allegations, so I believe that certain messages will be sent to the public through these corrections. First of all, distinguished colleague Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19131	Mr. Secretary has presented a series of incorrect allegations. It's the first allegation that they're not accurate. These are your data from the HZZO presidency session in the first six months, look over there, and then you'll see. Therefore, they are not available to us. Please calm Mr. Minister, because he's a little... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19132	Minister, this is the representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19133	So, we, if Mr. Minister has information that parliamentary deputies can't get, then that's why he thinks we have 2,000 more. When we talk about CT, we don't know what profit it is for a C.T. that costs 500 kn, and the contrast itself cost 400 kn, I don't see that logic, I don't see the logic of a privateer. And what I'm very interested in is how privates can work for free. They're working on profit. Is this a direct contract behind which certain other promises will then be fine-tuned or broken in all of this. I don't understand how a C.T. costing a private man 500 kn, the very contrast that is given is 400 kn that privates charge for. What profit would that CT be cheap for? He'll be 500 kn.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19134	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Ostojic believes there has been another breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19135	Article 207 has been injured. Mr. Vice President, I'm going to ask you one more time, which is that no one can speak at the session until you allow it. Article 208, which is: “The President is concerned that MPs can say that they are not disturbed, no one else, and even if they are respected members of government ministers, they do not have the right to interrupt and throw away, as you can also resolve Article 214.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19136	Thank you very much. I think you can see that I'm warning each other equally. And for the correction of the quote, I give a word to the esteemed colleague, Joseph Leca.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19137	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Allow me to correct two incorrect allegations. The minister claims they have the courage to stand up to corruption. I don't think you do. Here's why. Your courage is in this, in the alibi of fighting corruption, so you managed to catch a surgeon who blackmailed the patient's operation. You managed to catch an official in the garter and you managed to catch a student at the Index, but you abolized and protected two ministers in corruption, which is undoubtedly, now unequivocally proven in the Privatisation Fund, and they are responsible for the work of that fund. You didn't catch or find out who was responsible for getting the truck. You haven't even established a procedure to determine who illegally privatized "Suny Hvar". The privatisation is not even eligible under the new PPP bill. When it comes to the state of health, I would say your inaccuracy. Mr. Minister, the prime minister has admitted his responsibility for the state of justice and public security. Because of this recognition, he replaced two ministers who had had his political protection for several years, so when he assessed giving social danger... /The speaker turned off and back on./... when the prime minister estimated that the social situation was such that it could cause mistrust against him decided on his shift without a question from the Croatian Parliament, although only 7 days earlier, the minister had received confidence from the Parliament. That's how the prime minister admitted... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19138	My colleagues and colleagues, here's another sentence I ask you to finish, even though you're not correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19139	Give me how much you stole from me.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19140	These aren't the corrections of the quote, they're the brief debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19141	Mr. Vice President, the question is whether the prime minister will admit his responsibility in seven days for the state of health, and then, in seven days, the Minister of Health will be replaced.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19142	Thank you. Next comes the debate of distinguished counterpart Rajko Ostojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19143	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Since you haven't realised Mr. Vice President of Parliament Jarnjak has asked the obviously respected minister to speak more adequately. There's no string of incorrect allegations. Exactly 19. First, World Health has no 200 countries but 192 countries. Minister Jandrokovic probably knows how many United Nations there are, and I don't doubt that Minister Suker knows how many countries there are in the IMF. World health care 192 countries. Two, a magnet not 4,000. The magnet costs from 1120 to 400. There are two prices in my hospital, and the magnet pays believe it or not 149 kuna. Pay my hospital, my radiologists 4,000 or 1,000 kuna they'll work. Secondly, CT is 500 plus contrast. Contrast pays extra. So the contrast wasn't introduced into that agreement. Marge, Mr. Minister, Mr. Minister, you have the opportunity to lower the margin by regulation. You have Mr. Shuker. He knows that. The minister can, by means of a sublegal act, calm the margin to large-scale drugs. Use this option as it was used in 2001, use that option again. You mentioned Rijeka. By February 2008, you were the president of the Management Council of Rijeka, so the management is headed by Professor Haller, you as chairman of the board of directors are obviously "deserved" for such a long list of waitings in stents. Or not. 200 grand, you're right, Mr. Minister, it's exactly 200 thousand new searches made this year, and former Minister Hebrang knows that. So that 200 grand counts the sedimentation. Sedement is one search, leukocytes are one search, neutropenia is one search. Take the blood out of me, just blood, five tubes, that counts as 82 tests. Please, let's be exact, and just 5,000 patients. Does that mean we did good or bad? Therefore, expensive drugs, not exactly 2 weeks, but 8 weeks... Of all 19, or there's enough of these 11 correcting incorrect allegations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19144	Thank you, Mr. Representative. Further to the correction of the allegations came the esteemed representative Mr. Iron Flego. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19145	Mr. Vice President and Madam Prime Minister. I would ask you, given that you are in charge of social activities to take a break, because this is not a place for free instructions, explain to the minister that we would understand precisely and accurately that it must be accurately expressed, so please explain to him what it means to reduce the price by 300% because it is one nonsense and it also speaks of responsibility for human resources and the level of education of ministers who lead certain resolutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19146	Thank you. Furthermore, an esteemed colleague, Ranko Ostojic, appeared to correct the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19147	Your Honor, it's an incorrect quote from Mr. Secretary, which is that no one mentioned health care. When we are constantly talking about the security of citizens being threatened, we are constantly talking about crime, so I don't know why Mr. Minister found himself so far that no one has mentioned him. I would just take advantage of it and not talk about 100%, 200% or 300%, but I would talk in numbers. Not once, not twice, not thirty-five times, but a hundred times more expensive device for which he then canceled the Shimatsa contest, but before that there was no epilogue. What happened to that person who tried to make that robbery?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19148	Thank you very much. And the latest application for correction of an incorrect quote, a distinguished counterpart, Parliament Vice-President Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19149	In his passionate speech, our sympathetic minister, looking at SDP representatives, said a whole series of incorrect allegations, but I'll bring them down to only two. He said we didn't have the courage in our time. I really don't know which time he meant it, but I guess he meant at the time when the SDP was in coalition power, we never had a minister, but we had the courage, and that's how it confirms one exact fact, and that's that waiting lists at that time that have a significant impact on the reduction of corruption were never less and that the bills were never paid more quickly than in health care than in that, so we had courage. And the second correction to an incorrect quote is to use demagogue and muddy the health system. It is not a demagogy that we warn of problems of the health system, loudly and clearly without fear and suppression of demagogy is, Mr. Minister, when you boast about successes, and you solve problems that your predecessor or predecessors from your party made several months ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19150	Thank you very much. On behalf of the proponent for the word, the esteemed colleague, Zoran Milanovic, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19151	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We've been discussing this important subject for nine hours now, and we think that we've said everything that was important and that in the next nine hours nothing else, we couldn't say anything more substantive, although I do know that there's a great reservoir of patience and knowledge here, but at 9:00 we said a lot. Whoever heard it heard it. Whoever wanted to talk was talking. Who isn't, isn't. I spent most of the day here today. I'm sorry I wasn't here now and a half. I expected the Croatian Prime Minister to appear here after opening the Zagreb-Rijek road for at least another hour, as the prime minister did in 2002, but my God. The customs are different, the temperament is different. There's probably a man who's got more important things to do. This also shows respect for the institutions of the Croatian Parliament, including the Croatian Government. Many members of the Croatian government, the HDZ government, as well as according to the Institute of the President of the Republic were sitting here today. Speaking of which, I'm glad we heard a historic speech today that clearly represents the start of a presidential campaign. We heard a speech worthy of the ZAVNOH session, and I am very pleased that the Prime Minister spoke in such a peaceful tone. We heard that he repeated this at the opening of the Zagreb-Rijek highway and that he had stepped into a new ideological area. So he included a complete political spectrum of Croatia, and that's very good, and I hope it's honest. But hopefully, first of all, I hope that, given that so far, there are some things that have not been taken to deal with and some problems, because before that, they will try to leave the prime minister's post, which is apparently going to remain because this House will vote so far, it means escape, escape from responsibility, escape from risk, escape from the political failure that has surpassed all of us, and that is a strong feature in politics. Stay here when it's hard, especially because it's hard because you didn't do some things, too. And as in American and English terms, the commander-in-chief of the state of commentary chief, so is he who goes away at a difficult moment of fugitive in chief. The head fugitive. Well, I hope that after today's state speech, Mr. Sanader will not be fugitive and chief, the head fugitive, but will remain the main and responsible or the main irresponsible. We heard in this House a week ago the announcement of a major legislative reform, a major leap forwards in the fight against the mafia, organised crime, the adoption of some new laws, and this is also an indication of how much the government in the sector is in this sector and how much the prime minister doesn't really know what is on his desk and what instruments the authorities and legislative instruments had at his disposal. So we heard about the DNA database on the judicial academy, about a series of things that exist in Croatian regulations, about a series of things that just need to be applied and nothing else. That also points to irresponsibility. This also indicates that we do not know what is available and what can be done if desired. Not to mention some of the proposals that have been coming from the SDP club lately, regarding treatment and availability and confiscation of property to those who have acquired it in an illegal and criminal manner. It's respected colleagues and colleagues rejected. I'm not gonna say it's ridiculed, I'm not gonna say it's reediculated, but it's rejected. We didn't hear the argument. Today, a week before this meeting, we hear it's coming back. Why? I asked a provocative question here today, and I hope no one misunderstood me. And why haven't they been removed or why hasn't the state's attorney and chief USKOK been proposed, who otherwise enjoy our support? Why just the Minister of Justice? There's no answer. This whole debate, these nine hours, has been a war by correcting the wrong allegations. I wish we'd heard at least one substance debate. You tried a little hard to give it to the esteemed president of the club Dr. Andrew Hebrang, but that's all. Of 66 HDZ deputies, that's all. Well, that's not all you have to say. Well, I guess there's more. That's where we heard things today. We heard what happened if there wasn't a Victor Lance and a River Bank. So what's five years to talk about? There wouldn't be a darkness. On the aside that some of these statements are at the level of slander, charges of crime that no one has ever investigated, let alone ruled. No one ever. However, I would like to make that clear here, although it is not directly related to this topic. The claim, even if it were true, that the state, listen well, the state's money was given to a private company as an incentive, is something that would be just as blasphemous for a conservative politician, as if someone were making racist statements about other religions, races. Gentlemen, money is public, businesses are legal persons regardless of whether they are private or state-owned. See what the rules of the European Union say, and you will see that state aid is generally prohibited, but when given, you must not discriminate between private ownership and state property, because workers who pay taxes, both pay taxes, both have families, husbands, women and children. Please be conservative until the end. Be conservative all the way and don't say things like that. If they listen to us from the European Union now, they will have a great questionnaire in the sky. The money's public, the tax is everyone's. Everyone has the right to help, if the state considers that this aid is warranted. And in the end, as paradoxically as that sounds, but we actually agree. We actually agree that the Croatian language is rich. You've been claiming the Prime Minister isn't responsible all day, we're saying he's irresponsible. Same thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19152	Thank you very much. As I am informed, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, an agreement has been reached to suspend the debate at 6 o'clock, to withdraw the applications and then to hold a final speech by a representative of the motionors and a representative of the government. Is that agreement existential? ... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Then we'll still argue with you. Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19153	I give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19154	But there are those who are, as Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic, who want to speak, right? Okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19155	Mr. Vice President, that deal was made beyond my knowledge, so I have nothing to say about it. You laugh, but I'll talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19156	No, this was a deal between the HDZ and SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19157	I'm sorry, but there are more clubs here. He's got an IDS club, he's got a HDSSB club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19158	Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19159	And the SDSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19160	Here you go. Mr. Grubisic, please. Do you want to talk? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19161	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, in that, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, gentlemen from the government. Here's when I was talking in the replica about the situation the other day, when you said up to the blood I would defend the view about, a positive attitude about Minister Roncevic, after which you completely shut up, you didn't say a word to your prime minister, I tell your prime minister, because that's what you're thinking, when he replaced that same minister, who you've praised here with all your mouths. Furthermore, if the ministers were bad, those who were replaced, if he was a bad police chief who was also removed, then isn't there a command responsibility for whoever put them in that place? Under the same commanding responsibility, ours are in line. Under the same command responsibility, although analogy is not identical, some of our generals do.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19162	My colleagues and colleagues, may I have some peace and attention that the counsel can do.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19163	So, when we look at this debate by parliamentary deputies who supported the report by Minister Roncevic and also the closely connected Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice, and also Minister Lovrin, and then no reaction from 66 MPs and other coalition representatives, when it was removed or when those ministers and directors of the police were removed, I wonder how does the public actually understand the authority and behaviour of government and sustainability in this country? Is that a bill, we have a council majority and we don't care? The opposition they say is somewhere in some index hr or so on that the leader is Mr. Milanovic, although he is not my leader or leader, does not think so. I think MPs have to think for themselves and say what they think, loud and clear. That's the way of understanding the duties of counsel when you can't say anything to your superior, that's what I'd say a little pathetic. I can tell Glavas whatever I want. So if, therefore, we rely exclusively on the majority that will always vote what the prime minister says and decides, then the matter is clear. Then this discussion is almost unnecessary except to point out to the Croatian public everything that actually pushes her, along with the Croatian public and Croatian citizens and us here not to list everything already said by Pliva, "Verone", "Imostroja", "Bechtella", "Luburnia", "Brodosplita", "KIM", "Sunčano Hvar", Croatian Privatisation Fund, where three ministers are in the board of directors, county "Sladorane", corruption that developed and varied through the Public Procurement Act, private-public partnership, etc. which is unscheduled, and here tomorrow we have on the agenda and that, on the wrong political assessment for ZERP, on the privatisation of a criminal that no one has sanctioned, and the SDP government of the coalition that was in power from 2000 to 2004. There's not one word of it at all. Therefore, together for this criminal privatisation and conversion, guilt is common. From the guarantee card, to... Split, from location, arrest, transfer, etc. with the mounting that also happened. [[You don't understand.]] Therefore, our region of Slavonia and Baranja has been abandoned and neglected in relation to other regions in the Republic of Croatia when viewed in all segments and economies and schools and health and in relation to the gross social product compared to even the level of pensions in Slavonia compared to other regions. So all of this actually brings negative points, but as Mr. Šišljagic said here, we think that voting against the government would most likely cause one of them not to say chaos but something like that, new elections, ahead of local elections, and I think we will remain abstentioned by this to say, at the request of the SDP that will be on the agenda for the vote, but in any case this government has really elements that do not satisfy either HDSSB or citizens of Slavonia and Baranja, but as the prime minister said, ie. President of the government we will fight with parliamentary means, so democratic procedures that this... /The speaker has been turned off and then turned back on./... Someone's turned it off. Given the peaceable tone that he was today, I kind of estimate him, that something will change in that hope, as Mr. Šišljagic said, we will remain restrained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19164	Thank you. Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go. That's the last MP.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19165	If that's the case, and I just want to express the surprise of this HDZ and SDP deal, not to disturb this idyll, then I'm going to give up this debate myself, all with the ministers and you MPs leaving with me as soon as possible before home and the next day orni back to work. I think it will make a good contribution to this parliamentary democracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19166	Before the proposed word is finished, the government's representative has the right to ask for a word, and then the proposaler's final word comes. Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, please welcome and then to Mr. Milanovic after the Deputy Prime Minister's closing statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19167	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here's a real short one on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I think we've heard a lot of arguments today in favour of the fact that the Prime Minister is Dr. Ivo Sanader, successful Prime Minister in the second term. I thank the government for the debate, even if the SDP has launched a debate on the confidence of the Prime Minister, it is all good to face opinions, it is good to make arguments. There have been many opportunities here to make arguments about what the government has been doing here in the past few months in the second term, but of course what it has done in the previous four years. Since the SDP club has actually set up three points for which it considers it necessary to distrust the Prime Minister Dr. Evey Sanader, we in the government believe that none of this has been proven, so macroeconomic indicators are good, negotiations for entry into the European Union are progressing. We'll finish the negotiations next year. As you know, we got an invitation for NATO. Institutions are doing their job effectively, the government continues to create material and other conditions for the successful operation of these institutions. The fight against corruption continues and, of course, against organised crime. The system is stable, the government is stable, orna for work, let's move on. I therefore propose on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia not to vote for this SDP proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19168	Thank you very much. And final word, Proposer representative, Mr. Representative Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19169	Thank you. That's it. Mr. Hebrang's prophecy didn't come true when, in the late hours, low instincts would prevail, they didn't. I call on you further, I call on you to continue this debate, and we've told you everything we've had on this subject. Nine hours more than enough. We don't have any more. Whoever realized who accepted it, more importantly who accepted it, who didn't. I want to appeal in this House for everything taught by today's experience, because as some say I'm never here, but they're wrong. They're wrong. They're wrong. To respect the debate and to use much more of the replica institute because it's risky, than the institute correcting the false allegations that is ordinary sophism, which many here abuse. As responsibility should be taken for the difficult situation in the country and for the unsettled and chaotic reactors, as responsibility should be taken for the difficult and unpopular decisions in the energy sector that will not be liked by everyone, so you should take the risk that when you say something, someone will answer something. I'm sure there are some among you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19170	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the vote. I note that in order to show no confidence to the Prime Minister, a half-dominated majority of all MPs, 77 votes, are needed. I am voting on the proposal of members of the SDP Club to show no confidence to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. It is voted in a way that votes for, votes to show no confidence to the Prime Minister. It should be warned here to be totally crystal clear. Please, let's get on with it. Let's engage to determine the quorum first. The result? Attending is 117. We have a valid quorum. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that 53 MPs, one abstention, against 75, voted in favour of distrust to the Prime Minister. And I find that the proposal did not receive the necessary majority and that the Prime Minister Ivo Sanader still has the trust of the Croatian Parliament. There is another proposal for the conclusion of the HNS Representatives Club, which proposed the conclusion. In view of the course of the debate, and in accordance with Article 111, The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament tasked the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia to report once a year at the first session of the Parliament, at the beginning of the year, the Council on the State of the State. Madam Vice President, will you please take this proposal from the HNS Representatives' Club?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19171	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The government accepts this proposal by the HNS club, asking to leave out this formulation at the first session of the parliament at the beginning of the year. We propose that when this will happen parliamentary clubs, of course in cooperation with the Government, it will not be an obligation, so it will be right at the first session of the Parliament. At the beginning of the year, but certainly. Here's what we accept, except for this at the first session of the Parliament at the beginning of the year.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19172	Ms. Representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19173	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, the intensity of this conclusion is instead of using these institutes since we haven't had a different opportunity so far, that simply there is a government president's obligation to once a year report to the Parliament on the country's apartment, which, of course, entails a parliamentary debate. And we accept that it is set a date, that is, a day in the agreement of parliamentary clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19174	Okay. In this reshape form. Before that, Mr. Representative Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19175	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Since the prime minister, and then the government, has been given confidence in this House, that is to say, his distrust has not been passed, and since the mandate continues, we must agree with this proposal and we will agree, of course, with this proposal. It is unusual that so far it has not been in Croatia's constitutional legal parliamentary practice, but the proposal is welcome and the SDP club supports it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19176	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Well, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19177	We at the IDS Club have no objection to the Prime Minister's report on the state of the nation, but it seems to us that it would be much more reasonable, much more acceptable, and I would even say more necessary to the Assembly with problems in which the nation is once a year addressed by the president of the state. I don't think in that context we should change the Constitution but that it would be desirable to hear what the greatest authority in this country is about these opportunities of thought.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19178	Unfortunately, that's not possible. Peace, please. The constitution is very precise and clear. We have under the Constitution had those... president of the Republic who reported the state of the state of the state of the state of the state and the nation before the Croatian Parliament. Now by changing the Constitution there is no longer that possibility that the President of the Republic here in the Assembly would report on the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the country. On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19179	Mr. Vice President. I think there's some compromise solution that we could settle today. If it is said that the first 3 months, so the initial 3 months of the year, are to be reported this way. If the government agrees with the vice president.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19180	Okay. I propose that this reformed proposal conclude that the Prime Minister, in accordance with the agreement of the representatives or president of the clubs, determine together a term when the Prime Minister will submit this proposed report by. Please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19181	Thank you. I don't think this proposal is bad for it to be in the first quarter, I think it makes sense to be at the beginning of the year. I don't insist on it, but I don't think it's bad to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19182	Okay. In the first quarter as agreed by the parties. Let's get on with it. Please. Madam Vice President. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19183	I repeat once again that the Government of the Republic of Croatia accepts the proposal of the HNS club, the Club of HNS Representatives, so it accepts the proposal except for the part to be at the first session of the Croatian Parliament at the beginning of the year. We accept everything else, agreeable and, as I said, what session on the fifth or second one will be agreed by the presidents of parliamentary clubs, of course, in cooperation with the Government, the Prime Minister, or the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-22-0.u19184	All right. This conclusion in this formulation will be agreed by the presidents of the clubs on a date, the date on which the President of the Government...... when he will submit his report. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] What? Let's vote that this... Who, for such a proposal, is this reformed? The result? I find that with 118 votes for, 2 abstentions and one against the proposed conclusion. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm interrupting the session. We continue tomorrow at 9:30 with a debate on the final proposal for a law on public-private partnership and the Law on administrative procedure and so on as follows according to the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing our session. There is a debate on: - Final draft law on public-private partnership, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 126 The proposer of the law is the Government. The amendments can be submitted until the end of the debate held: the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, the Committee on Law, European Integration, the Economy and the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Representative for Proposer Tamara Obradović-Mazal, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
