ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10584	Ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome you all. I am opening the fifth session of the Croatian Parliament. I welcome you all again, and I especially welcome the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Dr. Ivo Sanader, vice presidents and vice presidents and present members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received a record of the 4th session of the Croatian Parliament at the session. Any objections to the record? If not, I would like to say that we have adopted the minutes of the 4th session of the Parliament in the proposed text. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the agenda of the session. In addition to the call for a session, you also received a draft agenda, and at the session you were given the final draft agenda. In the final draft agenda, I included 12 new points printed in letters of mass in the final draft agenda, which is divided into benches, which are: Proposal for a law on financial compensation to victims of criminal offences, with a final bill of law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 107, in the final agenda is under point 22. Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on litigation, with final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 108, in the final agenda point 23. Final proposal of the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts, Second Reading, P.Z.E. No. 30, point 24. Proposed law on trainees in judicial bodies and judicial exams, with final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No 113, and the point is 25. Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Export Act of dual-purpose goods, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 47, item 26 of the final proposal. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Free Zones, with the Final Proposal for a Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 111 but the point is 27. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 105, point 28. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas, with the Final Proposal for Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 106, and the point is the 29th draft agenda. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 109, but the point is 30. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on State support in agriculture, fisheries and forestry, with the Final Proposal for Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 110, point 31. Report on the work for 2007 of the National Council for Science of the Republic of Croatia, applicant: National Council for Science of the Republic of Croatia, item 38 of the draft agenda. Interpletion on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in connection with the role of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the process of rehabilitation and restructuring of the Croatian shipbuilding industry, applicants: members of the SDP Club of Representatives, point 41. Article 205 The rules of procedure are laid down firstly to decide on a proposal to adopt an individual law by an urgent procedure. The final draft agenda under points 4, 5 and 18 to 21 and points 31 and 44 are set out the laws proposed by the emergency procedure, namely: Proposal for a Law amending the Income Tax Act, with the Final Bill, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 98. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of units of local and regional (regional) self-government, with the Final Proposal for Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 97. Proposal for a law confirming the World Postal Convention with the Final Protocol, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 104. Proposal for a law on the confirmation of a postal payment service agreement, with a final bill, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 103. Proposal for a law on confirming the general rules of the World Postal Union, with the Final Bill, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 102. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Fifth Additional Protocol with the Constitution of the World Postal Union, the Sixth Additional Protocol with the Constitution of the World Postal Union and the Seventh Additional Protocol with the Constitution of the World Postal Union, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 101. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on State support in agriculture, fisheries and forestry, with the Final Proposal for Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 110. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Implementing Law, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 69, Proposer: SDP representative club. Do any of the representatives have any objections to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of these laws? Yeah. Mr. Representative Andrew Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10585	Thank you very much. Mr. President, we object under point 44 to conduct an emergency procedure in reading the law on amendments and amendments to the Implementing Law, with the final draft law. We are opposed to an emergency procedure because an emergency procedure does not solve any problems that exist. The existing law has resolved all the specifics as well as in this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10586	Thank you. Also Mr. Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10587	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Well, correction of the IDS Club, I can say that we are opposed to the urgency of this law's procedure under regular number 27. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Free Zones Act, with a final proposal for a law, P.Z.E. No. 111. I don't think the free zones have brought much to the Croatian economy, but we need to approach this matter carefully so that this little investor doesn't escape us. And I don't think it's a good emergency procedure in law under regular number 29. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area, with a final proposal for a law on the grounds that this law has financially recovered a number of areas within the interior and would be disastrous to reduce the financial autonomy of local self-government units which at the moment use the benefits and benefits of the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas. I don't want to believe that the promoter is going in that direction to reduce the financial capacity of the existing units of local self-government, but since we haven't had a chance to see what that legal text looks like, I think it would have been notified to go into regular procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10588	Thank you. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10589	Your Honor, Mr. President. The SDP Club opposes the law under P.Z.E. No. 96, which is the second point of our agenda, is the proposal for a law on electronic communications, brings an emergency procedure. It is an important matter, a very complex legislative proposal that regulates the electronic communications market, but also certain rights of units of local and regional self-government. We don't think it would be good for such important matter to be handled by an emergency procedure, that there are no particularly justified reasons. It's not a little bill that harmonizes with two or three articles so it can pass for speed. This matter needs serious consideration. It must also be satisfied with the operators and units of local self-government, and there are already many objections that have come to the Parliament, to clubs from some operators. Since this is a professional matter, it is impossible for MPs to simply not be educated enough, to receive a vista to conduct a quality debate on this law, and especially since it is the second item of the agenda, we should discuss it this afternoon. There were examples and so far we're some laws with P.Z. Marking that we were taking off their emergency procedures. It's a law on elementary and secondary education when they were justified reasons. We claim that there are justifiable reasons for this law that he is going because of the seriousness of the procedure that he is going in two readings, so we ask you to respect these remarks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10590	Thank you. Any other objections? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Agent Ivan Hanzek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10591	I would like to do so on my own behalf, but I believe in the name of all those who are here, the mayors in this House, and in accordance with the position of the Association of the Cities of the Republic of Croatia, to propose to remove the urgency of the procedure in the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Roads, with the final draft of the law. There are two really justified reasons. Firstly, since the substance of the proposed law has not answered the question that has been present for several decades in matters of local self-government, road ownership, means and obligations. Secondly, which is not in line with the new laws on local self-government, among other things, with the abolition of the chieftains, so as to say that consent will be given to the heads. And thirdly, because it is not respected and basic that we have brought in, and this is the European Charter of Local Self-Government to Association of Cities, the associations of municipalities are participants in the pre-proposal and county agreement, I apologize, before the law is passed. I therefore believe that since the delay was almost three years before this law was passed, that we would not significantly compromise the functioning of this system, to discuss it in two readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10592	Thank you. We're going to the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10593	Can I answer that, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10594	And it doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10595	Because we would have accepted one proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10596	One. Here you go, Prime Minister, Mr. Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10597	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. In principle, we have continued practice and previous governments, which is that European laws go into urgent reading. It is a practice that we had in the past term and this mandate and I ask you that where it is not necessary to really accept one reading by emergency procedure, because everything that you are already making as observations and objections, you can present it in the debate and we will accept it if they are good. I would accept perhaps this, this proposal by Agent Hanzek, because it really is extremely important matter. I'm not saying that other laws aren't about important matter, but provided we can discuss it in two readings but in the same session. On that condition, we, on behalf of the Government, would accept this proposal, and the rest of us think it should be an emergency procedure, or here, as proposed by the HDZ Representatives' Club in that law, so as not to be an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10598	Thank you very much. We're going to the vote. As regards point 2. The proposal for a law on electronic communications, with a final proposal for a law, is an emergency procedure. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, The Rules of Procedure which states that it is exceptional, which concerns the harmonisation of the rules with the European Union, and, exceptionally, if the home working body, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System or the Legislative Committee proposes that the law referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article be discussed in the first reading as either the Constitution, the Committee on the Constitution or the Committee on Legislatives, is an unfounded objection to this law under Article 161. Rules of Procedure. I'm putting this proposal against SDP being followed by an emergency procedure. Who's in for an emergency procedure? We'll vote by raising our hands for a quicker procedure. Who's to suggest that this law... You don't have to. Because it's P.Z.E. there is no vote then, it is included by an emergency procedure without a vote, despite this proposal, which I have explained is not based on Article 161. Rules of Procedure. As regards the proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Roads, with the final proposal of the Law, the Government withdrew the urgency, so this law goes into regular procedure with the fact that we will seek to discuss this law in this session and in the second reading, and in this respect it is accepted in the de facto proposal by Mr Hanzek. Then we have a proposal from IDS at point 27, i.e. P.Z.E. No. 111. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Free Zones, with the Final Proposal for a Law on the basis of Article 161, because this proposal is also founded, and we will not vote on it, as well as the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas, with the Final Proposal for Law, P.Z.E. No. This proposal cannot also be accepted on the basis of Article 161. Other objections to, only the question remains and Mr Andrija Hebrang's proposal not to accept the urgency of the procedure at point 44, P.Z. No. 69, Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP on amending and supplementing the Executive Act, with the Final Proposal of the Law. So, let's take it in a row, and we'll vote on it when it's in order. Please, let's find the quorum anyway. 116, so we have a quorum. We can go to the vote. First, who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Tax on Income Act. Who's in favor of this emergency proposal? Thank you. Do you mind? In agreement with 116 votes, he was accepted to follow an emergency procedure. Secondly, who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of units of local regional and regional self-government? Who's in favor of this emergency proposal? Thank you. Do you mind? A unanimous with 117 votes has accepted this proposal. Third, who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the World Postal Convention with the Final Protocol? Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. The proposal was unanimously accepted with 117 votes. Fourth, who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Postal Payment Services Agreement? Who's in? Thank you. Against? A unanimous with 117 votes has accepted this proposal. Who is the subject of an emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of General Rules of the World Postal Union? Who's in, please? Thank you. Against? The proposal was unanimously accepted by 117 votes. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Fifth Additional Protocol with the Constitution of the World Postal Union, the Sixth Additional Protocol with the Constitution of the World Postal Union and the Seventh Additional Protocol with the Constitution of the World Postal Union? Who's in, please? Thank you. Against? Thank you. It's a unanimous 117 for this proposal. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Support in Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry? Who's in? Against? Thank you. I find that, unanimously with 117 votes, this proposal has been accepted. Who is proposed by the SDP Representatives Club to implement the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Implementing Law, and where is Mr Andrija Hebrang opposed to the urgent procedure? Who's to pass this law by emergency procedure, please? Thank you. Against? This proposal was not accepted, with 49 MPs, 68 against it. This means the law will be discussed in a regular procedure in the first reading. 22 laws are included in the agenda, which comply with the European Union regulations, of which 19 are by emergency procedure. Acts bearing the label P.Z.E. and for which emergency procedures are required are included in the final draft agenda under points 2, 3 is withdrawn, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 14, 15, 16, 22, 23, 25, 27, 28, 29 and 30. In accordance with Article 161 of the Treaty on the The Rules of Procedure which comply with European Union rules shall apply as soon as requested by the applicant and shall not be voted upon. There have been no written objections to the agenda I have proposed with the call for the session, and this agenda shall be in accordance with Article 203(4). The Rules of Procedure are considered adopted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure may now be submitted only to those points which did not contain the draft agenda referred to in the call for a session. These are acts referred to in points 24, 26, 38 and 41 of the final agenda. Final proposal of the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 30. Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Export Act of dual-purpose goods, second reading, P.Z. No. 47. Report on work for 2007 of the National Council for Science of the Republic of Croatia. Also interpletion on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in connection with the role of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the process of rehabilitating and restructureing the Croatian shipbuilding industry. Are there any objections to this entry of these four points into the agenda? If not, then these four points are considered also accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda has been established. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure, I should now publish the established agenda. I suggest if you agree that I do not read the full agenda, but allow me to announce that the established agenda is as I have suggested in the final draft agenda with that one change in urgency. Also, no urgency has been accepted for proposal 44, paragraph 44.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10599	And before we open a debate on a new proposal of the law of your colleague and colleagues, let me remind you that we all remember together a sad event that happened exactly 80 years ago in this time in the Belgrade Assembly when an assassination was carried out on the people's representatives, when they were defending the interests and objectives for which they received support from the citizens gave and contributed and in the way in which it is most sacred to their lives and their suffering. That is why I invite you to gather in peace for a minute of silence to recall this tragic event of our history. - A moment of silence - forever be their glory. - Praise them. - I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10600	Now it would be, as I announced an extension of the agenda and voting. On behalf of the SDP club, Ms. Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10601	Mr. President, I'd like to ask you to take 10 minutes off for a club session for voting consultations.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10602	Thank you very much. It's ten minutes. So we continue at 12 and 15. Please go back to the session so we can do this on the agenda. There it is, a 10-minute break. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. First two notices. The 12th meeting of the Committee on Economy will be held tomorrow, so at 8:00 in the morning in room 244 on the second floor, the Board President's Office. That is notified by the board chairman, Mr Dragan Kovacevic. And the notice of the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership of President Boris Kunst, the planned session of the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, is scheduled for today at 13 o'clock, will begin after the vote. It means 13 hours, but after the vote, what time is it, right? Thank you. Here's the SDP club asking for a 10-minute break. Do you have anything? No, I don't. Okay. Let's go then, ladies and gentlemen, see if we have a quorum first. Yeah, 104 MPs and MPs. We have a quorum. We're going over to the agenda first. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I will propose to the Rules of Procedure to supplement the agenda of this 5th session with points: 1. Proposed law on criminal proceedings, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 116, 2. Proposal for a law on the insurance and demand of workers in the event of employer bankruptcy, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 119, 3. Proposal for a law on areas of special state concern, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 117, 4. Proposed budget law, with final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 115, 5. Proposal for a law on construction products, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 118, 6. Final draft law on security checks, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 66, 7. Proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States of America on the legal position of the United States of America in the Republic of Croatia, with the final proposal of the law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 120, 8. Proposal for a law on public-private partnership, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 126, 9. Proposal for a concession law, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 129, 10. The proposal for a mining law, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 127, 11. Proposal for a law on election of members in the European Parliament, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 123, 12. Final proposal of the Law on officials and tenants in the local area, regional self-government, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 80, 13. Proposal for a law confirming the Additional Protocol with the Convention on Transfer of Convicted Persons, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 128, 14. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 125, 15. Proposal for a law on agricultural land, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 124, 16. Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 130, 17. Proposal to amend and supplement the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008, 18. Proposal for a National Chemical Security Strategy, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, 19. Annual Report of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development of the Republic of Croatia, Proposer of the National Foundation for Science, High Development and Technological Development of the Republic of Croatia, 20. Annual report on the work of the Governing Council of HINA from 1 May 2007 to 30 April 2008, Administrative Council of HINA, 21. Annual Report 2007 Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency, Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency, 22. Annual report on the work of state attorneys in 2007, 23. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of members of the Governing Council of the Croatian News Agency, 24. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on districts, towns and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 112, MP Dragica Zgrebec, 25. Proposal for a conclusion on the Regulation on the level of annual compensation for the use of public roads to be paid in the registration of motor vehicles and connected vehicles, Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the HNS. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt certain laws is subject to an urgent procedure. I stress that the laws: - Proposal for a law on the insurance of workers' claims in the event of an employer's bankruptcy, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 119. - Proposal for a law on areas of special state care, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 117. - Proposed budget law, with final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 115, - Proposal for a law on construction products, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 118 and - Proposal for a Law on Elections of Members of the European Parliament, with a final draft of the law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 123 and - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Additional Protocol with the Convention on Transfer of Convicted Persons, with the final proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. Do any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States of America on the legal position of the United States forces in the Republic of Croatia, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 120? Any objections? We're going to the vote. Who is to apply an emergency procedure for the adoption of this law, please raise your hand? I think we'll, I suggest that the amendments are later on and we vote on these emergency proposals, etc. Do we all have the keys if, perhaps, the keys to this bill would be best, and the amendments by raising your hands? If we have the keys, please let's get involved and vote on this proposal. Please, let's get involved and vote. Let's see the quorum first. If we're engaged, please let's get involved. Let's see the quorum. 101st, so we can vote. Now this Act on the approval of the agreement of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the United States, of urgency, we vote, so let's get involved and vote. Let's be patient until this one turns on. Let's control ourselves if it's working, here. Yeah. Score. This proposal was accepted by the majority of votes 87 for, 9 abstentions, 2 against. Who is to apply the emergency procedure of the Confirmation Act...... This is this, and this is... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Did the MPs have any objection to the inclusion of other proposed items in the agenda of the 5th session? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yeah. Representative, Mr. Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10604	Although P.Z.E., which is the Budget Act, the SDP club suggests that the law be carried out in two readings.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10605	Thank you. We have a proposal from the SDP to get the law on which it's the number to see, it's P.Z.E. No. 115th to bring in two readings. That's what we're deciding without debate. P.Z.E. It's all the board can do. Here's the thing, it can't, it doesn't have business opportunities, it's adopted. So let's go. Does anyone have any objections to the other points of the agenda, because we've absorbed these points first. If not, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the addition of the agenda has been established and I am now asking you not to read this. We know what agenda points we've accepted in the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, good morning, everyone, proceed with the session and pass, excuse me, Ms. Representative Milanka Opacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10607	Dear Mr. President, I would like to ask you on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, namely today on the agenda, somewhere like the 7th or 8th item of the agenda, an agreement should come, therefore, between the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States of America on the legal position of the United States forces in the Republic of Croatia. Since it is an agreement that is clearly conveyed to the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. Since it is an agreement that we believe should be brought to this House by a two-thirds majority and because we think that the Croatian public should know what this agreement brings to Croatia, Croatian citizens, we ask that the Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. So, on behalf of the SDP Club, we ask that a point under the regular number 18 be submitted in the opening letter to the Prime Minister, who would bring us here in the Croatian Parliament, but primarily to Croatian citizens, to explain why such an agreement was signed and what this agreement brings to the Republic of Croatia and to Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10608	Thank you. I'll pass this proposal on to the Prime Minister, so I don't even know when it's going to be on the agenda, we'll see if it is. We move on to the 5th session to the next points. 1. Final proposal of the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools, that's second reading, P.Z.E. No. 84, 2. Proposal for a law on the capital market, with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 131, 3. Proposal for a law on gender equality, with the Final Bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 136, 4. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Labour Protection Act, with the Final Bill, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 135, 4. Proposal for an export and import law of military use and non-military means of killing, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 133, 6. Proposal for a law confirming the Council of Europe Convention on the Washing, Searching, Suspension and Subsistence of revenue obtained by criminal act and terrorist financing, with the Final Proposal of the Law, also an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 132, 7. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the euro area, with final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 134, 8. Proposal for a decision to declare the National Day of Epilepsy, 9. Proposal for a Water Management Strategy, 10. Report on the effects of the implementation of the Island Act in 2007, 11. Proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union Peace Operation in Chad and the Central African Republic, 12. Attorney General's Rules of Procedure for Persons with Disabilities, 13. Proposal for a decision to supplement the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, 14. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Features and Recognitions of the Republic of Croatia, P.Z. No. 1 114, Proposer Ante Kotromanović, 15. Proposal for a law on the treatment of infertility and fertilisation procedures with biomedical aid, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 122, Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, 16. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, first reading, P.Z. No. 121, Proposer Dragutin Lesar, 17. Proposal for a law on grain warehouses, industrial plants, with a final bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 137, the promoter of the HSS Representatives Club and the HDZ Representatives Club, the material is in the boxes, 18. Annual report on work for 2007 of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data and also material is in the boxes, 19. The report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2007, is also material in boxes, 20. Proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the Peace Mission in Afghanistan, also material is in the boxes, 21. A proposal for a decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in NATO's peacekeeping operation in Kosovo, the same in the toots. I stress that the laws are: the proposal for a law on the capital market, with the final proposal for a law, P.Z.E. No. 131 Proposal for a Law on Gender Equality, with the Final Proposal of the Law, P.Z.E. No. 136, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Labour Protection Act, with the Final Proposal for the Law, P.Z.E. No. 135, Proposal for a Law on Exportation and Import of Military Use of Non-war Murders, with Final Proposal for Law, P.Z.E. No. 133, Proposal for a Law confirming the Council of Europe Convention on the Laundering, Searching and Suspension of revenue obtained by criminal act and terrorist financing, with the Final Proposal for Law, P.Z.E. No. 132, they are in line with the European Union rules, and in the application of the emergency procedure when adopting this law, no votes shall be cast. Do any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the euro area? Any objections? Can we vote if there are no objections by raising your hands? Who is to be placed under the urgent procedure of this law in the agenda? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? There isn't. I find that the motion has been unanimously accepted. Do any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Storage of Cereals and Industrial Plants? There isn't. If he doesn't, I'm putting this proposal in order to be classified as an emergency procedure. Who's in? Thank you. Against? 1. Restraint? Please determine how many MPs there are in the... 117 for and 1 against. Who is to apply the emergency procedure when adopting... Do any of the representatives have any objections to the inclusion of other proposed points in the session agenda? If not, I would like to determine that the addition of the agenda has been established.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10610	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure, I will propose supplementing the agenda of the 5th session with points: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the public against Infectious Diseases, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 139, 2. Proposal for a Law on Sanitary Inspection, with the Final Bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 142, 3. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of France on police cooperation, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 141, 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Declaration of the Western Part of Medvednica by Nature Park, First Reading, P.Z.E. No. 140, 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on Foreigners, with the Final Proposal for the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 138, 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 90, 7. Final proposal of the Trade Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 21, 8. Annual report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency for 2007. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt certain laws is subject to an urgent procedure. I stress the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 139 and Proposal for a Law on Sanitary Inspection, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 142 is in line with Union rules, and we do not vote on the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of this law. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the urgency of the procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of France on Police Cooperation? There isn't. We're going to the vote. Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10611	Mr. Vice President, part of the MPs has informed me that there is no key, so I suggest a vote by hand.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10612	Thank you. The esteemed representative Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10613	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, you mentioned that we would put this trade law on the agenda. I personally believe that this legislative proposal is harmful, unnecessary, anti-European, that the solutions it contains do not know any of the European countries mainly not Mediterranean during the season and I suggest that if it cannot be removed from the agenda, then at least to go into some regular procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10614	Thank you. Well, that's another reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10615	What else is reading? I didn't know, because I don't have it in front of me.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10616	Second reading, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10617	Then get him off the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10618	The suggestion is to vote manually, so I ask. Who is for the urgent procedure of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of France on Police Cooperation, P.Z.E. No. 141, can you raise your hand? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. I agree that with 90 votes for and one against, the emergency procedure of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of France on Police Cooperation, P.Z.E. 141. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act of Amendment and the addition of the Foreign Law? Who's in? Any objections? There isn't. We're going to vote. Who is in order for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreigners Act to apply an emergency procedure, to raise your hand? Thank you. Who's against it? No one. I conclude that the proposal was adopted unanimously. Do any of the MPs have any objections to the inclusion of other proposed points in the 5th session agenda? He had a respected representative, Cain, but this is P.Z.E. And it's a second reading, according to that. Who's for Kajin's proposal to make this proposal... There isn't. There's no vote. Thank you. Let me not read again the whole proposal now, points all for the proposed agenda, we can conclude that the agenda today is complemented by points 1 to 8 as I have read it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10619	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we begin by asking questions to the Government, or to an individual member of the Government, in accordance with the provisions of Rules of Procedure of Articles 180 to 184. The current morning is held at the beginning of each session, before the first item of the agenda. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth I shall inform the Rules of Procedure... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Excuse me. Let's go in order now. Mr. Shemso Tankovic. Here you go. He's gone. Second gentleman, second Mr. Igor Dragovan. Here you go, Mr. Dragovan.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10620	Mr. President, I'm asking the Minister of the Interior. Security in a country is not only measured by naked statistics but also by a subjective sense of security among citizens, and the Republic of Croatia is a more uncertain country from day to day. Citizens, voters, people who have given us confidence to give them a better and safer life, lose faith in institutions, so-called institutions. The rule of law, the police, first of all. Almost no USKOK confidant, and it is people who have been prepared to help police and prosecutors prove corruption and crime that has not remained protected. It's been a year since the pompous presentation of Maestro's action, and Maestro's out of nowhere. More than a ban of debaters on the street with their fists, baseball bats and iron bars are irrefutable with those who raise their voice against injustice and illegality. Banks, mails, exchanges, bookshops and shops are being robbed almost daily. No mob murder has been resolved in the past five years. Despite the restrictive law, the number of dead on Croatian roads is increasing. And the only answer this government has offered is even greater repression. True sports fans at a wide port bypass stadiums because hooligan violence is often, usually and normally normal. And the police, police, are silent and offering some understandable statistics through the media, releases exclusive stories about the establishment of some Croatian FBIs, and in fact what the police are doing is not introducing order and accounting with criminals and thugs, but over-uses force against those who at the wrong time are in the wrong place. Mr. Minister, are you aware that you are responsible for peace and security? Are you aware that you are not knowingly telling citizens that honesty is not worth it and that they should bow their heads and remain silent? Will you finally acknowledge your inability to fight criminals or will you resign because of incompetence?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10621	Thank you. Mr. Minister Berislav Roncevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10622	I would agree with only one fact that it is your subjective opinion and your subjective position. You have a right to it as a citizen, I can't blame you for it because the fact that when a crime occurs that gets a broader dimension, the media dimension that then the sense of security with citizens on the day of the event, the day immediately after the event, the feeling of uncertainty is greater. However, when we talk about security, we engage in a security assessment, then we still have to serve what you are not inclined to do, which is the official statistics of the crime movement in the Republic of Croatia. And it speaks for the first five months of the fall in criminal events almost all over the elements, and even in the traffic that you've apostropheed, tying it to dragon penalties, to the repressive law that I absolutely reject. And there's a smaller number of traffic accidents, but unfortunately we have bigger consequences, we have, the fact is, we have a larger number of fatalities, but we have a smaller number of traffic accidents with a steady increase in traffic, with a steady increase in the number of vehicles and a constant increase in the number of drivers. Police don't sleep, the police don't bend their heads, the police don't turn away from the problem, but the police professionally, according to the law, carry out their work unmistakably perhaps, as some would like, not to extraterrestrially spread some misinformation about police and police organisation. Therefore, it is not about any FBI, but about the implementation of the government's strategy on the repression of corruption and organised crime, on the creation of a new structural unit within the Croatian Police Directorate, therefore, fully in accordance with the law, fully in accordance with the Constitution. And we will continue to fight crime, and I hope with your support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10623	Thank you. Mr. Igor Dragovan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10624	Dear Mr. Minister, security and security are not naked statistics, and that's what I said at first, but the feeling that citizens have. About your numbers, tell the lawyer for gender equality what the director of Zagreb Roads, journalist Miljušu, feels like. You should ensure the functioning of a system that will effectively deal with crime, but unfortunately, you have been dealing with those people, within the system, who consciously, are doing their job responsibly. It's something that's unacceptable in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10625	Thank you. It is Mr. Agent Ivan Bagarić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10626	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. President of the Croatian Government and colleagues and colleagues. Every news of death is in itself sad, especially when it comes to the premature death of a Croatian defender. However, the public is particularly upset by the recent news of the late Zvonko Matijević, a defender from Split, as his death causes hunger and thirst. This news has been published by colleagues and fellow sensationalists before the judicial-medical arts on the cause of death, based on scientific court-medical evidence and as such unprofessional and non-serious. I dare say absolutely incorrect. However, since such an interpreted event has an additional adverse impact on the part of the defence population that has impaired mental health and lists defenders to, and the public to the conclusion that the institutions of the state do not care enough about defenders. I refer my question here to the present Croatian Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence. What do you think, Madam Minister, about this or what you can say about what the Croatian Government is doing in order to help to the greatest extent possible and best help Croatian defenders who are in need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10627	Thank you. Deputy Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10628	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Representative, first of all, in answer to your question, I want to do it once more, even if I did it personally and personally and to my family and friends once again, to express my sincere regret about the death of Mr. Matijević, a young man who was born in 1975. However, I would like to say that the first fact I want to point out is that the autopsy on the cause of Mr. Matiević's death until yesterday's day since I was asking questions was not over. So it's not made. And of course I draw from that fact the question of how is it possible that the headlines about Mr Matijević died of thirst and hunger? The second question, of course, is which I ask myself because at any point in time when a Croatian defender either commits suicide or a tragedy such as this one happened with Mr Matijević, of course, as a resolute minister, as a minister of Croatian defenders, I question what happened, did the system fail somewhere and what could have been done? So the data I want to present here is the following. Mr. Matjevic has achieved the status of a disabled Homeland War. Therefore, he has also exercised all the rights that come out of his law. Before my right to housing. So he got an apartment. I must also say, at least it may not be quite a talk about money, but I must point out that fact because it is a fact that after the adoption of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families in 2005, it was also a total achievement of the receipt of a disability or pension of about 7,000 kuna. The third fact that I want to emphasize Mr Matijević did not suffer from post-traumatic stress disorder as the media are instructions. He had another extremely severe diagnosis that I would not point out or talk about because of the pie. So these are facts. We in Split as well as other centers of the county have so-called PSP centers. So it's a psych center. The centre's employees of course followed Mr. Matijević's condition. Trying to help a number of times. We offered the help he refused. So help with the hospitalization. You yourself know that it is very difficult to force someone to hospitalize and I would pray that both in this case, both the public and the parliamentary representatives have the same standards as in some other cases. So forced hospitalization was impossible. In fact, Mr. Matijević's mother was offered to initiate the process of taking away business skills, however, she also refused. Help was also offered by the Centre for Social Care in Split and all others. So all of them, Mr. Matijević refused all of it. Of course there's still a question that can be asked to all of us. What does each of us do for a defender or for anyone he knows who he finds in trouble, so the question of neighbors, friends, and so on? However, the system in this case could not have done more. This is what I want to point out once again, and I repeat my sincere regret that we have lost a young life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10629	Mr. Ivan Bagaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10630	I thank Madam Vice President and I would, let me just further find out or from this highest place repeat. I didn't ask this question with the aim of having the Minister protect anyone, anywhere and anywhere. But actually from the most institution and from the highest position, we point out once again and sensitize the public on this very, very important issue. So we are all responsible from the family, from the community of us representatives of each other especially towards people in the first row of the Croatian defenders with psychological problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10631	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Damir Caine's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10632	Your Honor, Mr. President, I would like to ask either the Prime Minister or the Vice President, Mr. Polancec. I'd like to ask you a question, so when is the government going to propose a bill on what's-his-name? tourist land. The law was not passed even during the third-month coalition, nor is it passed today. Why? Because he's so-called. I claim to be in cahoots with all the rulings. The truth is, these hotel houses don't register on that property anymore. True, the state's attorney has initiated some proceedings against judges involved in the "Sun Gardens" affair, but all the courts in the Republic of Croatia have done so from Rijeka's Commercial to Istrian municipal courts. But what's the point? Hotel houses and now it is about their owners of individuals who today weigh hundreds of millions of EUR and in 1990 they did not even have used for secondhand golf, using hundreds of hectares of so-called. tourism land mostly in camps and do not pay anyone a kuna fee. Imagine someone from the government or I don't know who to give someone 100 acres of a camp and that someone who won that camp doesn't pay anyone a penny of a rent. Whoever did this clearly would have ended up in prison logically. You see, however, this practice has been in operation in the Republic of Croatia for 18 years. And that is why I think it would favour this large capital knowingly is not the law on tourist land because it is perhaps better for the tycoons to sponsor the ruling than for the Croatian state, which, fortunately for the first 6 months, has achieved more income than it planned for some 4 billion kunas. But on the other hand, it's about something else. Without that law, there are no new investments in tourism. Without that law, there is no development of cities and camps like I said are used without compensation. So when are you going to propose to the government a law on tourist land and how will you clearly share revenues between municipalities, counties, cities and states?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10633	The Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10634	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Representative, all that you have stated is true and we are aware of it and the only reason we have not yet referred the Law on Tourist Land to the procedure in the Croatian Parliament is because experts cannot agree and it is the leading legal experts in Croatia. We will, however, give one deadline. Let it be in the next half of the year, until the end of the year, to agree with the opinions, because there is legal uncertainty about certain ones. All of what you have stated is true and there is legal uncertainty. Some experts are for one option, some experts are for another option. We will meet in a moment, and I invite you, given that you are also an electoral unit that is extremely important to us in tourism, in the tourist branch of the economy to engage if you want. But I repeat, the only reason we haven't yet sent the law to the parliamentary procedure is because experts leading in Croatia cannot agree on these categories that you have listed here. We'll give them another six months. We'll have to get there.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10635	Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10636	In six months, another tourist season will pass, and yet no one, for example, will ever tell anyone about the use of this tourist land. However, I'm afraid that just those experts are on the link with large capital, not to say that they simply pay them and it's not good and it needs to be avoided. I'm not going to talk publicly about some examples of technology, but we know they've been given a hotel complex, and now, without compensation, these same individuals would like to get clear and tourist land that the note bears when it comes to camps they've been using for 18 years without a kuna fee. Let's say the kunas have been on this side since 2000. So, only during that period did the Republic of Croatia lose between 3 billion and 4 billion kuna. I think one such practice is inadmissible, that this law must come before parliamentary representatives before the start of the tourist season, because we will once again give them on behalf of some of the higher interests someone tells the ruling altruism at least 200, 300, 500 million kuna in 2008 alone. I don't think this country is so rich that that way we should treat those who have acquired their capital, we all know how.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10637	Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10638	Thank you very much. I refer my question to the secretary of state at the foreign ministry. Croatian citizen Christian Laptalo, captain of the ship, has been awaiting trial in Greece for almost a year. He's allegedly been charged with alleged drug trafficking. The indictment was filed only after nine months of arrest, and the trial was twice delayed. The first time was because that day was only supposed to be the seventh in a row, and the second was due to an alleged earthquake. If the Seafarer's Union has accurate information for the third time, the trial or the start of the trial is scheduled for July 14th. I ask what Croatian diplomacy has done so far and what it does to help our citizen to express his defences in the hope and faith that he will be granted a request for defence from freedom. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10639	State Secretary Bianca Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10640	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Parliamentarian. The foreign ministry and European integration have always acted hastily and no application from Mr Laptal, nor has his family been neglected. In accordance with international law and the Vienna Convention, we are working to protect the interests of Croatian citizens, including in this case. However, I must point out that neither the employees of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs nor European integration, nor the employee... by this or any diplomatic mission, or the Embassy of the Republic of Croatia in Athens, cannot interfere with the work of the judicial authorities of the receiving country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In early January of this year, Foreign Minister Jandrokovic held an inter-resorial meeting here in Zagreb, where all institutions were asked for maximum assistance for a Croatian citizen down there because of some objective facts and objective circumstances did not mean trial, the hearing did not begin earlier. Lastly, I have to correct you for July 16th because the building was supposed to be held on June 12th for damage to the building due to an earthquake. In any case, I would like to repeat to you once again that the employees of our embassy in Athens and Ambassador Madey himself provided maximum assistance under his powers, maximum consular protection and to Mr. Laptal, who is currently in custody and his family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10641	Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10642	I am pleased with your answer, but with your permission, Mr Vice President, I would like to address you and the President of the Parliament. I think that even after the intervention of the President of the State, it would be appropriate and well, not contrary to international relations, in order for the President of the Parliament to address his colleague and the President of the Greek Parliament with a letter of only showing great interest from all of us, on our behalf of the case, and I believe that they would not interfere with the internal affairs of the Greek judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10643	I agree. Ms. Representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10644	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I refer my question to the Prime Minister, Mr. Sanader. Mr Sanader, you are somewhere in January 2006 answering one question here in Parliament asked by then by Mr Zeljko Pecek, who said HDZ will not participate in political trades. However, do not follow your own words and recommendations. The HDZ has now entered the political trade by destroying the legally elected government in Varazdin County along with its partners HSLS, HSS, HSP and two HNS fugitives. It's the power that the citizens of Varazdin County have chosen. It's a government that is satisfied with the citizens of the Varazdin County. It is the authority that made the Varazdin County the most successful county in Croatia, and it is the authority that goes to regular check in regular local elections. Turning the election results, turning the political will of the people of Varazdin County to this political trade, damage the citizens of the Varazdin County, damage the trust that the people who go to the elections have in the institution of choice and have in the institutions of this country, damage the reputation of Croatia in the Member States of the European Union, the society we allegedly want to enter and where we want to become members who are completely clear and detailed about what is going on here.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10645	Please ask a question.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10646	Mr. Sanader, my question to you is why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10647	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10648	Mrs. Pusic, it is truly commendable that your efforts to try to make a terrible big problem out of a simple political match both in Croatia and in the European Union. Well, since I'm going to be with Prime Minister Brown tomorrow in London, and on Thursday with a dozen prime ministers of the European People's Party, I really expect this to be a big topic there. But I'm serious now. About everything that's going on in Varazdin County, believe it or not, I have no idea or meddle because in April 2000, when I ran for president of the Croatian Democratic Community, then I said this was my program, and in that programme was the principle of subsidiarity. This principle implies that a party organisation in Varazdin County is absolutely working independently on what the centre and party president thinks. Whether you believe it or not, I have no idea what's going on in Varazdin County right now. All I know is that there are certain problems, I know that some of the parties you mentioned, and among other things, HDZ are not satisfied with the work of the Varazdinian mayor to question the legality of certain operations. I know so much about it, the details of it. What's going on? Who's in charge? Who's taking who down there? I don't know. I'm interested in that because I'd like the people of Varazdin County to move forward, to make progress, but I don't accept it, and I need to reject the most serious innuendos you've said here and ask me what I'm doing. You may have been able to ask yourself that question while you were president or your new president, Mr. Cacic, but in HDZ there is an absolute principle of subsidiarity. Since the HDZ County Committee is working there, whether it believes Cacic is a good mayor, it is certain he does not think so, and I agree with them as much. Whether they think Cacic should stay mayor, they certainly don't. Is anyone else supposed to be mayor? If there are enough hands to be another mayor, it will be, but I don't see why that would be a problem for our debate here in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10649	Ms. Representative Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10650	Mr. Sanader, despite the cheerleading passions from your party's bench, this county is not about a political game, it's about political corruption because people are not in the elections, but are buying council members within the county assembly. Secondly, the principle of subsidiarity does not apply to parties. The principle of subsidiarity applies to the institutions of the state administration. Therefore, the principle of subsidiarity is when it comes to local and regional self-government, but not when it comes to relations in the party. Relations in the party assume the principle of responsibility. So, for party policy, you have to be responsible, and if you don't know, it's bad that you don't know, but of course, no one has taken it seriously that you don't know about it because there's no transfer of responsibility in this respect, you're responsible, and thirdly, for the dissatisfaction of the parties with the power, so don't account for the party. A party or some kind of stranger. It accounts for the citizens. Therefore, it is completely irrelevant whether the parties are dissatisfied with the authority. You should ask the citizens if they're satisfied or dissatisfied with the authority, but we'll ask them in 11 months, I'm not asking your written answer because I don't think you can give it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10651	Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10652	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My question is for the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Polancec. These days apart from the brilliant successes of "fire" the entire Croatian public could also witness the football knowledge of our ministers and the sports and commentary skills of Prime Minister Sanader, who spoke in a football dictionary about the maesteral moves of Croatian football players. For the entire Croatian public, it would be much more useful for the government to be headed by Dr Sanader instead of football to deal with maestral moves and to clear up the situation at the Privatisation Fund, whose abolition precisely a year ago announced Dr Sanader, claiming that the "Maestro" action had been carried out maestrally, the peak of the fight against corruption. Despite the fact that small fish were caught and that nothing had yet been proven to them and yesterday, the prime minister pointed out that Maestro was a bright example of our fight against corruption. My question, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, is that I'm telling you because I see that the Prime Minister Dr. Sanader is rather concerned about a better life these days, more about football. Can you answer me when the Government will show serious intentions in resolving corruption affairs, especially in the Croatian Privatisation Fund? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10653	Deputy Prime Minister, Damir Polancec.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10654	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, thank you very much, Mr. MP for this matter. So, as far as the Privatisation Fund is concerned, we are really preparing its reconstruction and its reconstruction will go in the next direction. So the idea is to transfer the entire property from the Privatisation Fund to management at the Central State Office for State Property Management because it's much more efficient to manage property from one place. As for the privatisation itself, i.e. the management of assets called shares and shares, we think and think that the most appropriate model at this time is the continuation of privatisation through a system of closed investment funds and I must tell you that the draft first law, the lex specialis of the law on the closed investment fund in my office on my desk, and it will probably be in the procedure in the Government and, of course, in Parliament very soon during this session of the Croatian Parliament. We believe that thanks to this we can speed up the privatisation process, make it even more transparent and, of course, bring ourselves into a situation that we can through such a model of privatisation and strengthen, among other things, the capital market in the Republic of Croatia. But when you asked me about the Maestro action, I think you're asking the wrong people and the wrong people. This is a question primarily for the State's Attorney's Office, it is a question for the Croatian judiciary and we, and I, of course, support the strong efforts of all institutions above all the Ministry of the Interior, USKOK, the State's Attorney's Office in countering and preventing of course corruption, etc. inadequate conduct in Croatian society. Where are we in this process? We're here to continue the trial as far as I know, so you have to ask them about the details, I'm not here or to accuse, let alone judge, and the times when the executive body tried long ago have passed and are behind us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10655	Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10656	Thank you, Mr. Polancec. Well, I'm the only one who can do what you say, my people, is that possible? It's been a year, nothing's been resolved, we're hearing new promises, but I'm telling you, we should finally move on from word to deed.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10657	Mr. Representative Ivan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10658	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I refer my question to the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, Mr Polancec. Mr. Minister, the government has adopted a programme of incentives for small and medium-sized enterprises for the period 2008-2012. Please answer me what it brings to small and medium-sized enterprises, which are programmes and on which the 2008 amounts are planned and which other activities you are doing to encourage or intend to spend this year in the drive of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10659	Deputy Prime Minister, Damir Polancec.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10660	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you for asking, Mr. MP. Let me first point out that the government has adopted an operational programme, in fact, to develop and encourage small and medium-sized enterprises for the medium term, so for the term of office of this government, and after that, so-called operational programme. The operational programmes shall be adopted for each year. The operational programme for the promotion of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs for 2008 was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and has drawn up a programme on the promotion for the medium-term some of the most important objectives we want to achieve. These most important objectives are primarily to increase the competitive capacity of every small and medium-sized enterprise and craftsman in the Republic of Croatia. We want to further strengthen therefore institutions that care and implement promotion programmes, namely technology parks, entrepreneurship, development agencies, regional development agencies, entrepreneurship centres. On the other hand, and through this incentive system, we want to actually influence the achievement of one of the most fundamental objectives of this government, and this is the more even development of the Republic of Croatia, so in this mandate and through this operational programme we will strongly encourage entrepreneurs who come from the region and from the counties with a higher unemployment rate. Thus, we will also target the funds for the development of entrepreneurship areas towards therefore entrepreneurship zones in the counties with a higher unemployment rate and with a relatively smaller share, i.e. a lower rate of GDP growth. Competitions have been opened after the adoption of the operational programme. The paper in the competitions is also that since this year, the implementation function from the ministry has been partly taken over by HAMA, the Croatian Small Economy Agency, which together with us is calling for competitions, will valorise each individual project and together with us make a decision on which entrepreneur has the right to incentivise funds. In total, more than 350 million kuna was secured in the budget. In the budget of the Ministry of Economy, specifically 279 million kuna. Most of that amount is 89 million and 200 thousand kunas to co-finance the construction of infrastructure in entrepreneurship areas, and I must say that we are very successful in this project. At this point, we no longer have to talk about 290, we can speak freely about over 300 entrepreneurial zones that we have in the Republic of Croatia, which are in a larger or smaller position, in which more than 20,000 new employees have been employed in the last 4 years. I would like to point out that we also held a 12th national consultation to encourage small and medium-sized enterprises and crafts in Sibenik traditionally, which was once again to say traditionally, record-visited. We had a record number of so-called participants, registered participants, which makes me particularly happy. And the newspaper compared to all previous years is that we have formed a team of people who visit each county and in each county further promotes promotion programs and encourages actually small and medium-sized entrepreneurs to run for our competitions. In view of the interest that is enormous, excellent, here I am allowed to take advantage of this privilege, and I will say that because of this interest we will extend the deadline for submitting applications, the submission of the programme by July 10th, so that soon, next week, we should complete this competition, we will extend it for an additional 15 days, so that all those who have their entrepreneurial programmes can apply and indeed get the funding from our budget. We think we're on the right track, the figures prove it best. Over 44% of Croatia's GDP is created by small and medium-sized enterprises, more than 40% of exports are created by small and medium-sized enterprises and craftsmen, over 65% of all employees come from this category and therefore we will continue to strongly support small and medium-sized enterprises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10661	Representative Ivan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10662	I am certainly pleased with the response of the esteemed minister. I also knew that information, and if you'll allow me, our minister does work as much as his predecessor, so there's not even time for marketing. I have given myself the task of asking this question, to hear all the citizens of Croatia, all the entrepreneurs with whom we are representatives in contact daily, from the economic offices of the economy, crafts chambers, chambers of commerce and ministers really thank you on behalf of all entrepreneurs, and believe that we should all work more together on your successes, on our successes, and in particular that these successes come to every entrepreneur and they will be even more pleased and certainly welcome the extension of this competition in 15 days, will welcome our entrepreneurs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10663	Mr. Representative Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10664	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. My question was addressed to the Minister of Health, Dr. Darka Milinovic. Mr. Minister, in media statements in recent days, you've been boasting that it's been saved over the past two and a half months, 250 million kuna, that's what we all know that the monthly system generates 100 million kuna, at an annual level is a billion and 200 million kuna. The question remains what you will do after 1.8. when you said that those directors who failed to comply with the austerity measures would be removed and that, apparently, the directors love their chairs, kept their chairs, so some directors, say in Split, said that before he was replaced by the director that he would shift all the way to the level of cleaning women, which is carried on to the level that we are witnessing restrictions in hospitals, extending waiting lists, delaying cold operations, but delaying for reasons that people will not work but have nothing to do with. So, Mr. Minister, do you have any information on how many Croatian citizens have not received or been unjustly delayed by the Constitution guaranteed health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10665	The Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10666	Here's my thanks for that question. I have to say, I was expecting him, so it's as if he's agreed. You said by the third month that the hospital system generated 100 million kunas of a new debt, and that's at an annual level of about a billion and 200 million, and I said as a health minister that we would deal with a number of problems present in the health system. And the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided that at the first moment it was a hospital system and in the fourth and fifth months, you noticed well. The hospital system does not generate new debts, but reduces its current business obligations from the current business emphasis and its liabilities at monthly level to up to 35 to 40 million kuna. The new relationships in the functioning of the hospital system don't go, and I never told one hospital director any of them that they had to save, but that they had to do rational business and that patients had to be satisfied. The illogicalness of your question about extending the waiting list, I'll tell you why it's illogical. The first, second and third months under conditions where directors created 100 million kunas of debt on the hospital system there was no question of waiting lists, delaying the cold programme or extending the waiting list. Now I ask you what is the logic, here at your Clinical Hospital Center Rebro Zagreb, which gets at the monthly level 15 million kuna more than it received in the third month. What's the logic of putting off cold programs, and last week I sent a letter to all the directors of the hospital system, 65 of them to answer that question because let me not control 65 hospitals myself, whether some cold programs have been delayed. But also the delay in cold programs is one of the conditions on which I'm going to say 31.7, this director is good, and this other director is not good. Therefore, the new limit must not go towards the delay of the new programme, and the system of responsibility yes, because, under new standards and new operating conditions, directors must be responsible. 65 principals accepted it, but not any savings on the patient's stomach. And that's what I want to say very clearly, just like it's out of the question, and I want to go public with this, and I want to tell all the directors that there is no delay in the cold program that you referred to.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10667	Representative Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10668	Mr. Minister,... You didn't answer my question. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I asked you how many citizens of the Republic of Croatia did not receive the Constitution guaranteed service, and what is seen to be saving on the poor because apparently the rich can be treated in other clinics outside the country, and for example about the delaying of the cold drive, the coronarography in Dubrava does not work for a while, so the whole "staff" was sent on forced vacation or not to them, had nothing to do with. And I think, Mr. Minister, it's time to say that the Emperor is naked.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10669	Mr. Representative Ratko Gajica. He's gone. We're moving on. Mr. Representative Ante Kulusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10670	Dear Mr. President, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Since there was a lot of mention of football here, I would take this opportunity to congratulate the Croatian team on the great success and all those people who give us pleasure at this moment, all hundreds of thousands of people in Austria. I have a question for Mr. Interior Minister, Mr. Roncevic. The tourist season is Schengen standard. We are witnessing the fact that the number of tourists who come to the Republic of Croatia more and more each year, as well as the increased number of boatmen who are using the Adriatic Sea for their vacation. Please respond briefly as the MUP Republic and Croatian police prepare for the 2008 tourist season, and in particular as it prepares for sea control and all in the spirit of increasing the safety of tourists and locals, as well as in the spirit of establishing future European borders and Schengen standards both on the Adriatic and on our eastern river borders on rivers.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10671	Defence Minister Berislav Roncevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10672	Your Honor, Mr. Representative. The Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Croatia actively participates as part of the government's programme of preparation of the tourist season, which is owned by colleagues from the Ministry of Tourism. We held a series of constructive meetings, agreed on a level of conduct and dynamics of police officers. And what is the best quality newspaper in this year, we expect that in early July, after successfully completed theoretical training in police stations and police administrations throughout Croatia, and a large part will be in the Croatian Adriatic area, because there will be expected and the usual higher concentration of people, we will direct 1200 police officers who have successfully completed the programme. I have to say after that staff devastation of the Ministry of Interior or the Croatian Police in the term of 2000-2003, indiscriminately firing police officers, I don't know by what criteria and by what reasons, the fact is that a certain gap has been created which we are now systematically filling, so in this context I express and remind the Croatian public that a tender for the completion of the new 1400 seats is under way, so I am taking the opportunity to call all the young people in Croatia once again to report to this competition. In addition, on the Adriatic coast this summer we will also have 25 police officers, us friendly from the countries of Hungary, Austria, the Czech Republic and Slovakia, the countries from which the largest number of tourists comes so that they as contact police officers as at this time EURO 56 police officers are staying in Austria with the sole purpose of being at the service and benefit of Croatian fans, who, as Minister of Interior, can be praised by their previous cheerleading and have truly realized that they are part of Croatian stories and that they represent Croatia and should be congratulated on their cheerleading. As for the Schengen border from budget funds, but also from pre-accession funds, we have so far used 50m euros from pre-accession funds to equip Croatian police, to train Croatian police. A large number of ships enter the operational use of Croatian police during this year, 5 were committed to monitoring the border and rivers in 5 of our police administrations. During June, by the end of June we will have delivered 2 ships 13 meters long, it is from pre-accession funds. From the budget of two more ships, one in June, one in September, these are 24m long ships. Therefore, the Croatian police have never been more equipped than today, and we all make it even better and material and, of course, humane. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10673	Mr. Representative Ante Kulusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10674	Thank you, Mr. Minister, I'm pleased with your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10675	Mr. Representative Josip Djakić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10676	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished members of the government. My question is for the defence minister, Mr. Branko Vukelic, to modernise the fighter squadron. Mr. Minister, in line with the long-term development plan of the Armed Forces, the modernisation of the fighter aircraft squadron is ahead of Croatia. How necessary is the witness and the malfunction that occurred on one of the planes during the general rehearsal to celebrate the day of the Armed Forces. The media periodically publishes texts about the types of aircraft offered to Croatia, most often mentioned by the US F16, the Swedish Gripen, but modern versions of the Russian MiG 29, and some other aircraft. It is mentioned that the selection of a type of aircraft will take care of its quality, technology, our needs, but that perhaps a crucial role in the decision will be made. Please tell us at what stage is the decision to choose a suitable fighter aircraft, and when can we expect concrete steps in modernising the combat squadron?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10677	Defence Minister Branko Vukelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10678	Mr. Vice President. It is true in our public media that much attention has been paid to the procurement of fighter aircraft, although as you mentioned by the long-term plan and the development programme of the Armed Forces adopted by the Croatian Parliament, it is only one in a series of projects that need our Armed Forces and our Croatian Army better equipped. I will only mention that it is in the phase of the realization of a combat armored vehicle, that for this year we are also predicting competition and contracting the purchase of coastal patrol ships, and combat aircraft are in the first phase in fact gathering information offers from manufacturers. And here it is to be said, the truth is that the interest of the world's major producers is great and that in fact everyone has answered our request for an information offer. In addition to the Swedish Gripen, other than the Russian MiGs, other than the American F16, it is certain that there are also German Eurofigter and French Mirage, so all the best manufacturers with fighter aircraft reported on our request to make an information offer. This information offer contains a lot of things, not just aircraft data. So, not only his combat, technical and tactical characteristics, weapons, but our enquiries went far beyond what must have, therefore runways, hangars of all those airports that are in the function of aviation, as well as training, training pilots, maintenance, remonting and all that goes with such technique. And the paperwork that came from the Department of Defense is extremely large. What has been done in the ministry is a professional committee that will analyse all these incoming information offers and after that analysis and comparing that analysis or comparing that analysis with the tactical and technical study that has been made, a feasibility study will be conducted which is the basis for the preparation of the tender documentation. The process that will take a long time, the process only of these examinations of informational offers and the production of a feasibility study will take place safely until the end, at least by the end of this year. After that, a clear and final decision will be based on all the elements that this feasibility study will give. The plan under the long-term programme for the development of the Armed Forces is that by the end of 2009 a tender is launched and that we then begin to purchase fighter aircraft. I'll also say this, the malfunction that happened on our MiG might be talking about the need to replace fighter aircraft, but she is, that need of replacement is already known. The damage that has happened is not common, therefore, something that usually happens and the commission formed will give the causes of the malfunction to MiG, but the fact is that by 2011, this process of purchasing new fighter aircraft should be completed so that our military aviation is fully operational and could accomplish its task, which is to protect the Croatian sky. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10679	Mr. Representative Josip Djakić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10680	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister, I am pleased with your answer, and with the deadlines that you yourself have set for modernising the squadron of fighter aircraft so that our skies can be as safe as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10681	Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10682	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I refer my question to the Minister of Health and Social Care, although the work has already been consummated before, but since it is an important area, I don't think it's a waste of time and a little more. In this term, the Government's programme is one of the main objectives of the consolidation of the health system and the creation of conditions for sustainable development. Surely the hospital system in that segment is immeasurably important and its normal functioning. For many reasons, the increase in hospital budgets has been particularly welcomed lately, part of the public, and especially from the profession. Well, surely in that part, I would like to ask Mr. Ministers what knowledge is at the level of the Ministry of Health and Social Care about the results of the operations of hospitals under new conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10683	Darko Milinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10684	Thank you. Indeed, this may also be related to the question of the distinguished representative Mršić, but I note once again, my determination and tenacity to raise the health system above the narrowing interests did not stop. Above the level of politics no, because it's impossible, but above the scrawny interests of yes. Of course we have preliminary results for the 4th and 5th month in new business relations. They'll be the final 31. 7. Because there still has to be one period of four months to see how the new conditions of business are, as they result in a hospital system. But the first results indicate that we see light at the end of the tunnel. It is true that we have reduced from current business, so from current operations we have reduced the debt of health care institutions, the hospital system by 35, 40 million kuna per month. The truth is, we went into rehab with an extra 150 million kuna. And the truth is, we're gonna get to 1. 7. have an intrusion by saying new funds of a height of 350 million kuna. And the truth is that for the first time since the coalition government passed a Law where the Government of the Republic of Croatia cannot participate in the rehabilitation of county hospitals. So, the truth is that this is how we rescheduled the county hospitals that have been new since 2002, then the new law is not possible for the government to help resuscitate these hospitals. So we're in the grip of open questions or debts of county hospitals. Now, somebody's really using what we did right. I and these occasions call on the opposition to participate together in a health system recovery project, to celebrate together and well what we did in the hospital system, that is the 4th and 5th months in the hospital system. I'm, and I'm not gonna say that I've used some of the opinions of MPs from the opposition and people who are not my political option to do something together, let's do it for that hospital system. But I reject all politics. Now here are the new limits, so 100 million kuna hospitals get a month higher. That those with 100 million more extend the waiting lists. So it is mentioned, I am sorry that Mršić is not there, so the Dubrava hospital is also mentioned to extend the waiting lists and to postpone the cold program. A machine broke down, for the machine on the... And since Saturday he's been working and it was one of the reasons why the cold program at Dubrava Hospital is being delayed, but since Saturday, he's been again, here I was last week visiting, back in office. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And so, no delay in the new cold program, the hospital system is stable. And I think those results will be after 31. And I told and promised the prime minister that I would come with 65 directors, regardless of the political option and say, to the prime minister these are people who know how to run the hospital system.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10685	Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10686	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. I'm happy with the answer. I believe that both these measures and many others that you intend to do in the next period will improve this immensely important system. Of course to make part of the availability, quality of health care, and certainly what you said, that in that part we must all contribute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10687	Mr. Representative Ante Kotromanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10688	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament. I would like to refer my question to the Minister of Health, Mr Milinovic. These days we witnessed the terrible deaths of Croatian defenders, so in the 21st century in the heart of Europe, the tragic death resulting from the suicide of a high-ranking officer in Gorica in Split. Mr. Minister, I've been advocating a new system of health care for the defenders for a long time. What we have today, I think, is not enough, nor effective enough to successfully fight all the war traumas. The system is... And he just can't recognize the problems on the ground. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I have advocated the separation of more resources for healthcare when we talk only about defenders, for regional centres in the Republic of Croatia, where defenders would get faster efficient health and psycho-social care for preventive checks, for defenders, for homes for defenseless and powerless defenders. And a lot more that would mean a lot to the defenders. At the first cabinet meeting, the prime minister himself promised that good proposals would be discussed and respected and discussed. I know that for the first time, this is the question of the Minister of Health because I believe that the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister do not have enough power, nor does she have health systems below her, that she can do something about it. I think we need to get involved in the health care of the defenders and do something that's above average when I look at role models, I don't know, Israel or America, we can fine-tune how they did it. In my opinion, the project holder must be the Ministry of Health. And I know it's a difficult question and I'm going to refer it to the Minister of Health whenever and how and whether you're going to improve and speed up the health care of the defenders to prevent these tragedies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10689	Take it easy, Minister! Minister, take it easy. Kolega Kotromanovic, SDP Representatives' Club, submitted that the question you are referring to, ask for an answer from the Deputy Prime Minister and Defence Minister, family and intergenerational solidarity to Mrs Jadranki Kosor. So that's the SDP counseling club that led you to ask the question but to Mrs. Kosor. So she has to, and then she'll answer that question.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10690	Okay. I think maybe I think the minister might be more competent to answer that question because I think the minister simply doesn't have one, she's not a health minister, she can't speak by health system.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10691	But according to the Rules of Procedure, so according to the Rules of Procedure, to whom the question is asked, that is the answer. Here's the vice president.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10692	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Representative. Well, here I think I can answer your question anyway, even if you've referred it to the Minister of Health, but we're working closely in coordination on systematic care for the health of Croatian defenders. Thank you for asking this question, because you are giving me the opportunity to announce from July 1st the implementation of a completely new project by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which will be implemented by the Ministry of Croatian Defence, of course with the support of the Ministry of Health. It is a major project, for the first time in Croatia, systematic reviews for Croatian defenders. So we're starting with this big project, which, of course, we've secured money in the state budget. For the first time, I repeat the project of systematic examinations through medical institutions. I must inform you with pleasure that we have also spent that public call to health institutions that can offer the most favourable price. And we're starting this year with a special one, I'll tell the target group of Croatian defenders. It is usually a programme accepted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So, Croatian defenders above all who have suffered from post-traumatic stress disorder, I believe that you will especially welcome this because it is a category of Croatian defenders who are struggling with extremely severe illnesses, then with disabled people, and then with the most severe disabled persons, and then on to the Homeland War, but also families of the dead, prisoners and missing Croatian defenders because I am sure you know that it is with widows that young women who were left without husbands with little children that are in progress that malignancies and all others. But also compared to their children. So it's the first group to take systematic checks this year. They are also specifically said I will target certain groups in view of the health problems that are predicted or shown in certain groups. We say we secure the money. We're starting this project. Based on these systematic reviews, of course, we will do a special analysis by the end of the year on the systematic care for Croatian defenders regarding health and health problems, which will be the basis for the adoption of a new programme in the following year. We predict that these systematic reviews in this first group will cover about 5,000 Croatian defenders and members of their families, and everything else, that is, you know about everything else under the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences and members of their families. So systematic care, but this is something completely new. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10693	Mr. Representative Ante Kotromanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10694	Of course, I'm glad that every time something is done for the defenders and reason, it's a category of people who are legally or incurable to the victims. But what I want the Minister of Health to hear we need to provide health care, we have a register of the maltene of about 500 thousand defenders. We are killed by people and those who are not disabled, those who are not, who do not have PTSD and we need to provide health care for all people. That's why I'm inviting the minister to listen, to do something. I appeal to him to be made, to gather all stakeholders, to start talking more seriously about the defence problem, about the health problems of the defenders, and that the health minister will be the bearer of activities that will improve... Health care for defenders. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10695	Mr. Representative Krešimir Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10696	Dear Mr. Vice President, I would like to refer the question to the vice president of the Croatian government, Mr. Polancec. Dear Mr Vice President, long-term electricity independence and independence is a strategic goal of the Republic of Croatia. Today, however, Croatia imports about 25% of electricity. In 2007, the costs of electricity imports amounted to nearly two and a half billion kuna i.e. EUR 350 million. In view of the average age of Croatian hydropower plants and thermal power plants, which is almost 30 years old by leaving the plant due to the permanence of Croatia, almost 50% of the total electricity needs could be missing. How to provide a minimum of 1000 to 1500 megawatts over the next ten years? How to ensure, as you often stress, the exceptional involvement of private capital is estimated at several billion euros for such investments. The answer to these questions as well as the decisions I would definitely say are among the most important strategic decisions of Croatian state policy at the beginning of the 21st century certainly not only for electricity, economic and financial reasons but also for security reasons and also for political reasons. Can you say more about the priorities of the Croatian energy strategy, which is at the final stage of production, especially since, as the Croatian Prime Minister said, it is no longer a taboo issue in the context of the fact that 34 new nukes are being built in the world and 60 of them are in the preparatory phase according to the International Atomic Energy Agency data? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10697	Deputy Prime Minister Damir Polancec.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10698	Your Honor, thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Parliamentarian. The Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship has already launched two very important documents in the previous term. One is an analysis of the implementation of the energy strategy for the period 2002 to 2007. And the second is the new energy strategy for the period from 2008 to 2013. So, according to our expectations, institutions that work together with the Ministry of Economy to produce these two extremely important documents should finish making so-called. "green book" so green book somewhere by mid-July this year. After that, we will substrate this draft energy strategy together with an analysis of what we have achieved in the previous period to the court of the public and we will encourage one, one, one... debate on this new energy strategy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All with the aim of including as many institutions as possible in this debate as possible, as many companies in the field of energy as possible, as many interested competent Croatian citizens as possible in order to be able to substrate in the ninth month, so first to the Government and then to discuss a new energy strategy at the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia because such an important document is brought by the Croatian Parliament. As you said yourself, there will be certain steps. When we talk about the gas market, there will be a step forward on how we will clearly specify new supply routes, in particular the merger of the pipeline system of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Hungary. On the other hand, building a new gas pipeline on the so-called The Adriatic-Ionian route. A very strict definition of deadlines for building so many necessary underground warehouses and so on and so on. But when I... you are already asking about the production of electricity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the total consumption of electricity in Croatia is now somewhere at 18 billion... 18.7 terawatt hours. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I have to say that somewhere around 15 to 23% of our needs are being felt from imports. The fact is that the price of electricity on the stock exchanges in Europe has increased in the last year or has doubled. It is true and of course it affects the level of electricity prices in Croatia. Our electropotentials, hydropotentials meet at this point the needs of something below 6 terawatts of hours. So about 30%, about one third. The correction of prices in HEP will ensure, among other things, that we can complete the ongoing development investment cycle and that we can start a new investment cycle so that in 2015 we can get into a situation to produce enough electricity for our own needs. It will not be easy, it will not be simple and will not be possible only from the budget and therefore from the capital of the Croatian electricity industry. That is why the energy strategy will open up the possibility for these investments to be included in private capital as soon as possible in the situation of self-sufficiency in electricity production. But after 2015, since consumption in Croatia is growing at an average rate of between 3% and 4% by 2020, we would have come back behind and we should again import electricity. If we don't start thinking about today, the real biggest project in electricity, in the production of electricity in Croatia. I will not mention now what it should be and what it might possibly be, but it is definitely that through the debate on energy strategy we must be aware that today we must think about the period from 2015 to 2020 and then we must think about how you can ensure production in the Republic of Croatia so much needed electricity. The Energy Strategy will therefore be the subject of discussion in the Croatian Parliament in the 9th or early 10 months of this year, and you will have opportunities to get more detailed answers in the meantime and I urge you to join the public debate that we are launching on this green book, about the draft energy strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10699	Representative Krešimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10700	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for your response. I agree absolutely with the conclusion that the quality of the public debate is extremely important in order to ensure as much quality, competence and useful public debate as possible in the interests of the long-term electro-energy stability of the Republic of Croatia's common interest. However, it is not simple or easy. How to ensure that there may be reports in the media space of a number of prominent universities that have made a comparative analysis, which are the elections and sources of electricity that are considered the most acceptable at the moment. Therefore, we hope that this debate will indeed be in the interest of all Croatian citizens, that it will be professional, competent and useful and that it will allow for the making of really the most qualitative decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10701	Mr. Representative Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10702	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, I ask the question to the vice-president of the Croatian government, Mr. Damir Polancec. Mr Polancec, in the last year before the Croatian public, you have made several promises. Super '98. It won't go more than 8 kunas. ZERP will be declared and will be in effect. The "Adria Society" project is not good for Croatia. We're going to eliminate zero spills, etc. etc. Since you have not fulfilled any of these promises, I ask you whether you knowingly and deliberately deceive Croatian citizenship or if you are so bad at keeping this country, you yourself believed these promises that you so easily pronounce.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10703	Deputy Prime Minister Damir Polancec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10704	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Parliamentary Representative, when you show me your statements or read my statements, then I will answer you, and I must tell you that everything I say and whenever I perform in any way or in the media or in front of such a distinguished and important gathering for such a performance, I always try to prepare well. So, know what I'm talking about. All I said today in the Croatian Parliament is the result of thinking, the work of people, competent people in the Ministry of Economy and behind all the things said today, as usual, of standing behind the words that I say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10705	Representative Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10706	I know for a fact that you, Mr. Minister, have believed in the illusions that Prime Minister Sanader has cast upon us. Here, I'll remind you of the famous Quick Cut you've talked about, and today there's nothing. I'll remind you of the ridiculous guarantee card in which you promised your citizens hills and valleys, and none of it today. Let us remember the promises of eradicating corruption in the "Maestro" action and beyond, and corruption is now growing and stronger. You didn't do anything for the judiciary. Inflation is increasing, and GDP growth is increasing. Prices are increasing, and wages are lower. You've done nothing, you have no knowledge or ability to lead this country. But you can't admit it to yourself and you really deserve the name “Pinoquio Government”. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10707	Madam Representative Jeljana Kalash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10708	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to ask the question of the Minister of Science, Education and Sport, Prof. Dr. Draga Primorac. Namely, one of the government's projects both earlier and present is for Croatia to become a leader in the region and on education. Of course, Croatia becomes one of those world states that has a free system of education and education from preschool institutions to high school, college, doctoral studies even. I am interested in what are the effects of Croatia's creation as a knowledge society and perhaps one more specific issue, and more specifically given the effects of the Bologna Process, which is the expected share of highly educated in the total population of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10709	Minister Dragan Primorac.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10710	I'll take the opportunity, so maybe give some information that's the first time today, because we've really been processing the data in the last month. In short, the entire vertical education and you are right from kindergarten and practically to graduate studies in Croatia is free of charge for those students who are within the quotas. However, speaking of basic education, I want to highlight the data, and this is also about secondary education, that thanks to the Croatian Parliament after 60 years we have adopted a state pedagogical standard which will have an important impact on raising the quality of education. Now a few words about the data. Thanks to the measures the Croatian government has taken, these are measures that practically lead to compulsory secondary education to the first qualification. Only last year, 1100 high school students are more than there were in the previous year, and forecasts are that this year will be double, because this year we are doing it for the first and second grade of high school. As far as employment is concerned, 3 and a half thousand employees are more in the system of secondary and primary education, in the sciences of 551 persons, and the question of the highest interest of 3000 new experts is employed at Croatian higher schools. And now a couple of data that's really exclusive. We have 7 public and 13 private higher universities more than in 2004 and the first two private universities of the Republic of Croatia. With regard to the number of students, this data is really dramatic. If we talk about 2003 and 2004 when there were 137 thousand students in Croatia and 2006 and 2007. 166, with this dynamic, since we do not have the data by the end of this year, Croatia is expected to have 36 thousand students more today than it did 4 years ago. It's the largest number of student increases in the last 50 years in all of these areas. Thirty-six thousand more students. If we look at the projection according to the number of people, since we know that we spend the entire time pointing out 7% of highly educated and about 4% with that higher school, if this dynamic continues in 10 years Croatia will rise above the average of the European Union with 25% higher education if we count on a bologna pass, about 65% and those in Western European countries and 70%. And one information that is really significant, and it speaks about the construction of Croatian universities. In the last 4 years, this government has managed to build 123,000 square meters in Croatian universities, and in the last phase of construction there are 180,000, so a total of 320,000 square meters. This data has practically resulted in this dynamic, and Croatia has opened its doors and other countries abroad. With the budget increasing, for example for higher education, which is a purely billion kuna without rebalancing this year, or a 65% increase, that Croatia becomes a leader in the region covering 150 million people according to all indicators. These are the numbers that will come out very quickly in "Embo" one of the most significant scientific journals that still has a factor of more than 14, I would say somewhere in about a month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10711	Madam Representative Jeljana Kalash.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10712	I thank Mr. Minister for your response, and I congratulate you on all your achievements so far, and I want both success and in further work, given all the factors you have presented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10713	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will now interrupt the session, continue at 12 o'clock. It's Madam Representative Dragica Zgrebec's turn at 12 o'clock. Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session, with the current morning. Madam Representative Dragica Zgrebec is asking a representative question.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10715	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I refer the question to Minister Pankretic. It's enough for me for you to be ministers. The latest purchases of blue diesel, in fact, represent a new impact on agricultural and fishing costs. Within a year, so from last year's seed, blue diesel has collected from 4.05 to 5.60 kuna or 38%. Fuel in the price of fish in carts as they calculated in their calculations already participates with 50%, and fishing is one of the few activities in which Croatian foreign trade has a surplus. In agriculture, with fuel prices, a high percentage of the growth was recorded by other reproductive materials, and I will only list mineral fertilisers that, in the short run, so within one season, have collected agricultural material by more than 40%. We can therefore expect a high price rise for all products from this year's production, therefore from the price of wheat which is also on the world market had a significant trend in growth, oil, corn and other products. These are mainly products whose prices, price levels will also be affected by livestock prices, i.e. the overall increase in food prices. I ask you why, despite the appeals and protests of milkmen, fishermen and other associations of agricultural producers, have so far not taken adequate measures to address these problems?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10716	Minister Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10717	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Madam MPs, first of all I thank you for asking, I think the question is extremely active, but at first I must say that, of course, the government does not stand with its hands cut, but if it were here, I would say we are working on short-term, but also on long-term measures. I'll start with what you said first, and that's blue diesel. I think we're all aware of the oil situation, almost daily gatherings and what's going on, but in that part, especially when we're talking about blue diesel other than those measures that have already been withdrawn, I would say, we're also preparing new measures. We think it is necessary to see what restrictions are primarily in that part of the consumption that we are assessing in the Government, here we at the Ministry of Agriculture in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, that yet one part of the blue fuel did not, unfortunately, end up with our fishermen and our agricultural producers, and in that part a brand new model so-called is being prepared. smart cards where we will definitely direct everything that agricultural producers and our fishermen need to have sufficient amounts of blue fuel. In any case, we also talk about making this price as acceptable as possible. When we talk about it, of course, we are talking about curbing the smuggling that is objectively possible in that part, but then focusing that part of the income on the part of the reduction in the price itself or the retention at a certain level. As far as mineral fertilisers are concerned, I think you witnessed our interventions in this regard and that we have done everything possible at the very price of mineral fertilisers as regards internal reserves in the Petrokemia itself, but still aware of the situation itself in the world market, which refers to raw materials of which mineral fertilisers are made. I must say, as far as wheat is concerned, you mentioned it as a product that will increase the price and be influenced by these entry costs. I can say the wheat not so much, but of course you're right about these other products, especially when we're talking about livestock. However, I think that these short-term measures, which have largely been taken, will be difficult to respond to a global food challenge. I think food is something that is not only in Croatia I would say a price problem but it is also a problem in our environment, and we can say it freely throughout the world. What we do is we go towards another measure, which is investment, and that's the part that we want to prepare our agricultural producers to be as competitive as possible and to respond to these challenges by their production. I think we have enough resources, I think Croatia should answer these things, and I think that we have predicted many of our measures that have not a short-term but a long-term character. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10718	Mrs. Dear Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10719	So I have to say the less important thing is that I'm unhappy with the answer, the more important thing is that farmers will be unhappy with this response. In fact, when I was presenting these statistics on the rise in the prices of certain reproductive materials in agriculture, I wanted to point out in particular that this is a multiple increase than the average official inflation that is somewhere around 6% this month. This will therefore have a significant impact on inflation in the second half and on growth because it will increase food prices more significantly. And in fact, from your answer, you can actually see the infirmity of you in the ministry, because you obviously don't have the support of other resistors in the government and that we need to make peace with the Prime Minister's statement that the time has passed is cheap energy and cheap food. I think that in Croatia and the citizens of Croatia, we must not deal with this and expect the government to come forward with more concrete measures, and we in the SDP pointed out in time and even proposed some measures to address some of the problem of price growth in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10720	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament just before the gallery joined the delegation of the Montenegro Assembly led by her. E. President of the Montenegro Assembly Mr. Ranko Krivokapic, so please welcome our guests with a round of applause. Ms. Representative Mariana Petir. [[Applause.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10721	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Prime Minister, with ministers, MPs and deputies. I ask my question to Minister Cobankovic. It could be understood under the short term "where Wild Pigs Go". And what's this about? Ministers I introduced you to a petition of farmers from Sisak-Moslavina and Zagreb County whose crops and agricultural cultures were affected by wild boars who, meanwhile, crossed with domestic pigs, especially where the area was affected by the war. And today, farmers, unfortunately through what is seen and petitioned, think about stopping farming because they simply cannot defend themselves more than wild boars, even entering their backyards and gardens. I'm interested, I assume you've studied their observations in detail, and they're also complaining about the poor management of the hunting grounds that your ministry can take to resuscitate this damage, to compensate for the loss suffered by agricultural producers, but also to take adequate preventive measures so that this situation doesn't happen again. Since there is also a water economy in your vault, let me consider the current situation in the town of Petrinja where the drinking water supply problem is, where it is located instead of 20 bacteria over 1000 bacteria in water and where the Petrins are actually condemned to be brought to them today by firefighters drinking water and not knowing when they will actually be able to use drinking water in their homes, which I think is quite normal in the 21st century. The question referred to you in principle concerns not only your portfolio, but the entire government, whether the Government of the Republic of Croatia will help the citizens of the city of Petrinja get drinking water as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10722	Minister Petar Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10723	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm familiar with the damage-related situation caused by savages or more concrete than wild boars. We have received your petition, we will follow those requirements that are indicated in the petition to go and examine certain allegations and take certain measures. But I want to point out here that it is the obligation of a hunter to bear and to repair the damage that comes from savages in areas where they rule with certain hunting grounds. The situation has escalated right in Sisak and, mostly in Sisak, but also in part of Zagreb County and the fact is that we have part of the national hunting grounds and part of the common hunting grounds. At national hunting sites, practically masters or rather call a tender and make decisions on the officials of the ministry and on the common hunting grounds of the county. In accordance with the statement, we stand at the point that the damages must be settled, that the hunting societies must compensate for the damages that have taken place, and in part of the reduction of the population of feral pigs we are prepared to accept changes to the hunting grounds and allow the population of wild pigs to be reduced in that area. I'd also like to point out that we also had instruments to force the poachers to have to repair the damages. It's that if they don't, we can go to the end of the contract with the poachers. I would also like to inform you that when a contract is concluded, one of the mandatory documents is also the guarantee of the bank to carry out the obligations undertaken and if the damages are not recovered by the poachers, the contract will be terminated and damage will be settled from the guarantee to those farmers who have suffered damage. I think we need to approach this problem in a much more serious way, that we need to re-examine and manage the hunting grounds by the poachers on the one hand, whether it's consistent with the hunting-economic bases and, on the other hand, if there really is such an increased population, allow for the reduction of the population of feral pigs. So here's what we're going to be in touch with, and we're going to solve the problem that's arisen and it's escalating. As far as the second part of the question is concerned, it is extremely current and especially when situations like this happen to lead from public water supply do not satisfy the conditions and, in fact, when harmful to drink. I would say that together with the sanitary inspection that certain measures have been taken, that the use of water is prohibited, that the hyperchloration of the complete system, the washing of the complete system and that it is reassessed has changed the source of the water supply. This is what has currently been done, and the permanent solution is to connect this system to the regional system of Sisak County and we are ready to go in solving such a way to ensure health and quality proper water. So we're going into action to transfer this system to water supply from the Sisak-Petrinja-Lekenik regional water supply site.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10724	Ms. Representative Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10725	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, I am pleased with your response in the first and second parts. In the first part, because you announced increased surveillance and the introduction of order into the management of hunting sites, which will make it important for farmers in the area of Sisak-Moslavina and Zagreb County, and in the second part because here Croatia also leads in their financial plan, which we also had the opportunity to see plan for the regional waterway of Petrinja-Sisak-Lekenik. This is a 75 million kuna investment, and it will, of course, come in handy to help your ministry participate in the implementation of this project and simply close the whole story so that this part of Sisak-Moslavina County will therefore also help Turopolje and Banovina and Posavina have adequate supply of drinking water to the entire population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10726	Mr. Representative Zdravko Ronko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10727	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to refer my question to Minister Shuker. Namely, as many of the public knows that in 2006 there was... Požeko-Slavon County, because during 2004 and 2005, the current county government damaged 316 million kunas in which no healthcare was included. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I remind you that the Commissioner of the Government of the Republic of Croatia sank in that nightmare because of his SOS messages for those 64 million kunas so that you can urgently supply them with funds so that the county doesn't fall. The government in some way, of course the ministry remained deaf. So here, the extraction of these cars from the fungi began with a raid program and began a requirement for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to actively engage not only in the recovery of the damage, but also to involve itself in the settlement of creditors from the moment they are asking for 160 million kuna. The fact is, it's been two years. The fact is that the creditors have been charged from the accounts of our citizens, the citizens of Požega-Slavon County who were neither guilty nor debtors, who did not eat or smell onion, have so far been charged 35 million kuna, which means that the citizens of Požega-Slavon County are so impoverished. The government has in some ways remained deaf for now. They didn't help you either, they didn't help you, they didn't help the government's memo, they didn't help the amendment to the budget, and this year we're faced again with the fact that we have to settle 17.8 million kuna from the budget, I speak without that reprogramme, and so much is the budget of our county. So, again, one collapse would follow and I expect and seek, and in a way I remind the Government and the Ministry of Finance that in the same way in the municipality of Great, the truth God is there in the power of HDZ, that the Ministry of Finance intervened in that municipality with a hint of several million funds. And my question is, as I point out, to Minister Shuker it is very simple, when and finally with how much money will the Government or the Ministry intervene from the state budget towards Požega-Slavon County? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10728	Minister Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10729	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, in this House of Highs two years ago, there was another interpretation of the situation in Požega-Slavon County. After carrying out the arguments both on the one hand and on the other, at one point the late SDP President, Mr Ivica Racan, came out for a pay phone and said that the debate was suspended for reasons why the arguments by the government had a certain power and had to be discussed. Also in a public debate between you and me and the government, you were presented with a model of solving the situation in Požega-Slavon County. There is something that is economically very difficult to interpret. The budget of Požega-Slavon County without decentralised funds is 20 million kuna, and you are talking about a loss of 315 million kuna. What was to happen, how many jobs were to take place in a county that could invest several million kunas a year to make a 315 million kuna debt? But let's put it aside. Your answer was that you went to borrow a county without the consent of the Ministry of Finance, without the consent of the Croatian Government, and you were told to go with a debt reprogramme for, to the institutions that took up credit, not Požega-Slavon County. That's what I have in writing, that's what I'm responding to. The government of the Republic of Croatia to avoid the collapse of primary education, secondary education, social welfare directly from the budget finance both primary education and secondary education and social education, and there are no problems in the county's most normal functioning. Also, certain infrastructure projects, capital projects in the county are being worked and thus the government is helping and will continue to assist all units of local self-government. But what we can't agree to is we can't accept it at all, which is that you're counting two, three times, and you're adding it up and coming up to 315 million. So you are offered a model on which the government can help even if you accepted that model, today in Požega-Slavon County there would be no more problems. She and now, the basic ones of the institutions function without a problem. However, you just look at the head of the county's debt decision. You're talking about something that's not based on the law or anything. So you made decisions that were contrary to the law while you were mayor. The government simply cannot maintain decisions that are contrary to the law, but I repeat, as well as any other unit of local and regional self-government, the government will normally assist in projects that have its own justification and which need financial assistance from the state level. But I ask myself and you the question, how can a county that then had a original budget of less than 20 million kunas spend 315 million kunas in two or three years, and where are these money? Where's your money? However, the model of issuing bonds to certain performers in the Požega-Slavon County is a model that was started in the town of Požega. And as it worked there, the state audit has its own opinion, the state audit found in its alleged debt. You've increased it five, six times. Well, I called you personally, and when we talked about sitting down and clearing up the state audit warrant, we had to solve the problems. But not the way you wanted to get 315 million cash from the state budget, and that's how you solve the problem. It just doesn't work, because those obligations don't stand. You can't add one obligation three times, once in Croatian roads, actually in these County roads, twice through the issue of county budget bonds and three times through the County's obligation to repay the loan. So, accept that model you're offered, the government will help you the same as everyone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10730	Mr. Representative Zdravko Ronko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10731	Mr. Secretary, Zdravko Ronko doesn't have to, that's one thing. And secondly, where's the money and we're wondering. But you must know that during those two years, we have sent 15 requests from the opposition, asking you to put an end to that madness in Požega-Slavon County. However, the control mechanisms of all these countries have been stalled. No one reacted until there was a breakdown. As for the alleged explanation of yours that we're in charge, don't deceive the public, because there's no need, Mr. Minister. You know for a fact that a local self-government unit can be charged to a maximum of 20%. You also know, and so did the State Audit, when you are already calling on it, that duty was 467%. Who else would give us any credit if we were in charge of the county? And the truth is that from the moment we took over the county, and the truth is that ever since I've been mayor, we've received swear loans, we've only gone into certain reprogrammes, because the government hasn't jumped in or the ministry hasn't wanted to jump in and service those credit lines that we've been forced into. As far as the damage is concerned, I repeat, the damage is 316 million kuna. We're talking about damage, not loss, we're talking about damage. And one more thing, I've asked you to join me in solving these 169 million kunas, which are currently being asked by the believers. Believers who have the judgments of general courts, trade courts and banks sitting behind us. And we don't have any others. We don't have any obligations. If you have to settle that difference by 316, I also invite you from the government to simply make a contribution in that field, because it's precisely the one who could use these control mechanisms and stop, I said that madness, that's what he didn't do, and I think the government should be obliged to sit with us and we can work this out together. Citizens of Požega County are not citizens of Požega-Slavon County, not guilty of this [[Thank you very much, thank you very much.]] And they must not be punished just because someone does not like their will and their right to choose others. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10732	Mr. Representative Bruno Kurelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10733	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I will refer my question to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Damir Polancec. These days, with the daily collection of oil derivatives, another blessing for the exhausted Croatian citizen, the collection of electricity. HEP asked for a 54% pick-up. Prime Minister Sanader has allowed a 20% raise. Look at the esteemed citizens that this HEP whose boss, probably the government, wanted to do to you. And how the Prime Minister came up with another rescue solution. And therefore, it convinces us that Prime Minister Sanader has no reason to panic, but rather to be relieved, because in these times of crisis, we must be satisfied if we are fed up. We are still convinced from the government that if we spend a little electricity, we won't even feel it. So don't waste your electricity, and it won't be expensive for you. Smart enough. On the other hand, HEP loses about 2 billion kilowatt hours of electricity produced at Krško Nuclear Power Plant for Croatia and at the same time has money to e.g. sponsors football clubs out of the pockets of those same citizens with electricity. Mr. Vice-President of the Government, Mr. Polancec, which is why, before you approved the power collection you didn't do anything for, that HEP is doing more rationally and thus to prevent this electric shock on citizens' pockets.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10734	Deputy Prime Minister, Damir Polancec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10735	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliamentarian, I'd rather you asked me a question than read it, but I'll try to give you a direct answer. So, first of all, I'm taking you and all of us back to that energy strategy I was talking about. Let me point out that the last correction of electricity in Croatia was made to a more serious correction in 2005. From 2005 to today, a lot has changed in our environment, and most importantly, what has a major impact on the price of electricity is next. So, above all, electricity prices in Europe have increased, i.e. it has doubled in the last year. And as you know, and I was saying today, about 20 percent of our needs are coming from imports. The second fact that a price correction was necessary is that the energy used by HEP in its power generation thermal power plants has been highly accumulated over the last three years. We're talking about gas, we're talking about lye oil, we're talking about maput, on average 76%. It is from these two facts that the argument arises for the necessity of a correction of the electricity price. However, that it would not be that HEP in those three years did nothing on its own reserves and on improving its business, the results of the business, I will introduce you to several facts. First, HEP had 560 more employees in 2005 compared to the number of employees in HEP today. So HEP has reduced the number of employees by 560 in the last three years. On the other hand, the losses you're talking about can be divided into two basic groups: losses in distribution and losses in transmission. Both are, therefore, in percentage of the total electricity consumed in Croatia. They certainly do. On the third hand, only in the last year so that HEP could do positive business and that there would be no need to increase the price HEP has reduced its maintenance costs by more than 300 million kuna and these are the very concrete contributions of HEP. The fact that HEP is currently in an investment cycle in three, therefore, large plants for electricity production. And if we want HEP to invest and get into a situation where in 2015 we have self-sufficiency in electricity production, HEP should be granted the hoarding he asked for, so of 54%. However, in the energy strategy, we have clearly defined ourselves, and I hope it will be this respected high House and accept when we will have a debate on the energy strategy that, instead of HEP, a part of the investor will be private capital. It is precisely this fact that we are coming into the situation that it is not necessary to approve an increase in electricity prices of 54% but is enough 20%. And that it would not be that the state in that sense, or the government, did nothing to reduce HEP's demand for electricity correction. I want to make it clear that the debt of HEP per... The debt, by the government's decision will therefore be converted into HEP's capital, in order to reduce that amount, and this is over $100 million, the need to increase electricity prices. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And this is our concrete contribution to the fact that price correction is not higher than 20%. In addition, I would like to tell you that we will transfer to HEP a certain other property of land and probably some shares and shares in order to influence the price adjustment requirement as little as possible. So, very specifically, HEP has reduced the number of employees by 560 in three years. HEP, therefore, reduced the losses in the transfer and distribution, HEP reduced maintenance costs by more than 300 million kuna, the government participated in the transfer of capital claims by more than $100m and opened him up in an energy strategy the possibility of investing private capital. And therefore, the correction that is necessary and minimum of 20% is approved by my ministry, as a resolute ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10736	Mr. Representative Bruno Kurelić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10737	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Before I give a brief observation of your answer, let me tell you how modest my memory is that only during the independent state of Croatia was it forbidden to read in this esteemed House, both discussions and these issues. It had to be spoken. As for this one of yours, I appreciate your answers, they were really wide, but let the everyday life around us have a different picture. And she reminds me personally that you're running Robin Hood's politics, so it's time to stop that act. I'll be very brief. In anticipation of the results of your measures that I will probably finally come to, which I will probably finally remember a story from my childhood in elementary school, and that story goes about like this. When my parents weren't home, it was a little Jozica, of course, Tito, that now I'd go to the other ideological side and take a roast pig's head out of the stove and feed my... Here's the thing. [[The speaker doesn't understand, speakers speak out loud.]] [[/Intruder: Let's not, let's not tell stories from Ivana Brlic Mažuranić long ago. Let's let it go now.]] But let me tell you the result of that story. The next day we get... /The speaker is off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10738	Okay. Here, Mr. Representative Tomislav Culjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10739	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My question is about the accession of the Republic of Croatia to NATO. It is well known to the Croatian public that the Republic of Croatia from the NATO summit in Bucharest received an invitation to join NATO. Of course, with all the advantages from the security view of NATO entry, it should also bring incentives to the Croatian economy. For citizens in the Republic of Croatia, the issue of employment and job creation is very important. That is why I am referring my question to the State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integrations, Ms Matkovic, Bianci Matkovic, will joining NATO open up opportunities for new employment in the association as well?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10740	State Secretary Bianca Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10741	Thank you very much. Well, you said yourself at a summit in Bucharest, Croatia received an invitation for full membership. After that, we had two rounds of approach talks that we had successfully completed. 9 July will be the signing of an access protocol followed by ratification in the Member States. We expect that by next year's summit, by the Jubilee Summit of 60th in the spring of next year, Croatia will become a full NATO member and answer your question. Yeah. The entry of the Republic of Croatia into, as full-fledged members of the North Atlantic Alliance, opens the possibility of employment for our citizens. During these accession talks, we have also committed ourselves to increasing the number of our employees on a diplomatic mission, in a NATO mission to about 45, but also these 45 employees means a quota that we must meet in the first year of membership. Staff are divided into civilian and military personnel. As far as civilian personnel are concerned, it's an international staff. It's wanted through a public tender. The Member State may make recommendations, however, but candidates shall be assessed primarily by the basis of their personal abilities and by the basis of the very strict classified procedures to be carried out. As for military, military personnel, the armed forces have already expressed their readiness to give a number of people to work in Brussels at NATO's organisation. But also information for you and the Croatian public that for all Croatian students who have completed their studies or have just completed their studies since the second half of 2009 the possibility of internships, paid internships at NATO headquarters... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10742	Mr. Representative Tomislav Culjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10743	Here I thank you for this response, and I believe that the accession of the Republic of Croatia to NATO will certainly open up with this security aspect and opportunity and employment, and we have seen that the Croatian army is already in fact in all the missions it participates in has shown that it belongs to NATO and I am confident that in further action, when Croatia gets full membership in NATO and continues to prove that, that the Croatian Army is equal to all other armies that are members of NATO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10744	Ms. Representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10745	I refer my question to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Kosor. If it is to believe the latest figures of the State Statistics Institute whose leaders of Sanader's Government moved when their reports of Croatian citizens from day to day did not match them, they enter the ever greater minus. Last month, a record inflation of 6.4% was recorded. It seems to me the highest inflation rate, the highest inflation rate since the introduction of the kuna. None of us should be reminded of what it means when inflation is hijacked and when they value and especially loans with the foreign exchange clause take the upward path. All indicators say that we must be seriously concerned about the high rise in consumer prices. The meeting of the Price Control Committee did not produce any results because the electricity price for most households especially those with more domestics and with more children increased 20%. Prices of oil processing will seem very soon to skip a magic figure of 10 kuna for a liter of fuel and I wonder only where Sanader's pre-election promise to defend a liter of Euro-Super at 8 kuna went missing. All this generates a rise in food prices and everything else that is needed for a man's life. Parents are getting harder and harder to educate their children. The prices of transportation, kindergarten, hot meals, scholarships and books for students all go up. Price increases are the most affected by pensioners of which 900 thousand therefore more than 80% have daily only 44 kunas to survive. It may be half a loaf of bread, a liter of milk, a half a kilo of some vegetables or fruit, and meat only in the butcher's window. Not to mention, it's about getting drugs, buying a book or going to the theater. Therefore, my question is, how long will this government, without any strategy or ideas, without offering any concrete and not only cosmetic solutions, be able to see the deterioration of living standards and the ever-increasing sinking of Croatian citizens in poverty, or perhaps Madam Vice President as you always agree with everything Mr. Prime Minister has said and then with his statement that it is enough that people are fed up?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10746	Deputy Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10747	Mr. Vice President, Madam Representative, I will leave from the end. Of course, as always, I agree with what he says, what he says, and what makes the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia Doctor Ivo Sanader. Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia in the second term. So after gaining confidence at the end of last year for the second time and a party headed by Croatia's democratic community to run the state. It would no doubt not have been so if he had not led the government well and that the government had not worked well in the past term. That's what the election results show. In everything we've done in the government, of course we've shown great understanding for the moment. This is how it is today, and I must tell you, you may not want to see it, but the government does not want to see it, as you said what is going on in the oil market and in other markets, what is happening with food, but the government is trying effectively, and it is doing it with success, to make certain steps for a better standard of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. In any case, it takes considerable measures in this regard. I will remind you that at the beginning of the year, right after the government was formed with our partners, immediately at the beginning of the year we established several commissions that work on the problems you spoke about, including the commission that dealt with the prices, I want to remind you that we agreed, of course, together with our partners, trade unions and employers about the price of bread, about the price of oil, I believe you remember that. We also agreed that the price of electricity, or gas, does not rise until the beginning of the summer. As for your mention of the prices of a liter of gasoline and other things, I would like to remind you that Croatia does not live as an island, Croatia is not isolated and everything that happens all over the world, of course it reflects on Croatia as well. The moment we defended, as you said the price of a liter of gasoline, the price of barrels of oil on the world market was about 30, 36, 32, and today, as far as I know, it's about 138. Therefore, I repeat, Croatia does not live isolated and, of course, we must and feel the consequences of the movement, in this case oil prices on the world market. The government is doing what is within the scope of the government, you believe you have read, and if you do not want to repeat here that the government has just made some decisions regarding the collection of electricity, that a large number of citizens of the Republic of Croatia will not experience it, or will not experience it. For one category we have secured a 5% increase, and those who spend above, households that spend more than 3,000 kilowatt hours will pay an increased price. Thus, neither the government observes peacefully nor lets things happen without its influence. What we can do, we influence. Since you mentioned families, I will mention the fact that this government has provided free textbooks, you mentioned schooling children, free textbooks for all those children who are covered by compulsory schooling, free transportation, free housing in homes, that this round will expand this year. Therefore, I think these are arguments that you simply cannot, Madam MPs, and you cannot skip. And finally, to repeat, I am very supportive of everything that makes the Prime Minister, Dr Ivo Sanader, this is supported by our partners with whom, as you know, we have formed a coalition, since we are the party that won the highest term, I want to remind you of 66 after the previous elections. I believe there will be more on the next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10748	Ms. Representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10749	You're a party that unfortunately cheated on its citizens, you said you'd defend the Eurosuper. So I'm sorry, you said you were going to defend the Eurosuper on 8 kuna, you didn't tell the citizens that there was a possibility of a global oil crisis, so you didn't keep your promise. Today, therefore, the euro is almost 10 kuna. And all that you said, Mrs. Kosor, unfortunately you are denied reality and how people really live in Croatia. It's clear to me that you can hardly understand it from your position, but those people who live out of thousands of kuna really barely survive and are on the verge of hunger. The fact is that pensions are increasingly lagging behind, and this price shock certainly threatens both the large number of pensioners and the unemployed, as well as those who were discriminating here just 15 days ago, and who are working, for example in the textile industry and who will not have a minimumer or one that you have provided to others. So this category of people is literally on the verge of poverty, and I'm sorry you don't see it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10750	Mr. Representative Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10751	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished Croatian government officials. I have a question for Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Government and Minister of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Namely, it's a matter of public procurement. Mr. Vice President, since the ministry has taken over the public procurement system in this term, how do you assess the new structure and can you specify the activities that are under way in this area? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10752	Deputy Prime Minister, Damir Polancec.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10753	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, thank you very much, Mr. MP. Well, as you yourself mentioned in this mandate there have been some changes, organisational changes above all, and so the public procurement system from this mandate is in the power of the Ministry of Economy. We're talking about a public procurement system, we're not just talking about classic public procurement anymore, as we knew it so far. What does the public procurement system do? The public procurement system spells, of course, the Law on Public Procurement, makes the Law on concessions and makes the new law that we are preparing, the Law on Public-private Partnership. Also, I want to say when we're talking about organizational changes that and jurisdiction for the chapter... So in the negotiation process. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Public procurement has also shifted to intelligence and jurisdiction, so the economy ministry. Our task was, on the one hand, to provide an institutional framework for the implementation of the new public procurement system, and on the other hand, of course legal predisposition so that we could develop the public procurement system in Croatia in an adequate way. So what's done so far? First, as a resolution ministry, the government adopted a strategy for the development of the public procurement system and another very important document, which is the Action Plan for the implementation of the strategy. One of the important measures, i.e. important elements of this action plan, is the establishment of a specific coordinating body that would, at the monthly level, report once a month to the Government on how the implementation of the strategy is carried out, or where we are, in which we are in a phase with the establishment of a public procurement system in the Republic of Croatia. Such a co-ordinated body has also been established by the Minister of Economy, acting in the capacity of the co-ordination body as well, and is therefore the representative of the Ministry of Economy to which the former Public Procurement Office is attached in this organisation and this mandate and other representatives of all other public authorities are, above all, representatives of other ministries that have connections with the public procurement system. We will therefore report to the Government on the implementation of the public procurement system in the Republic of Croatia at the monthly level. As far as the legislative framework itself is concerned, I must say that so far we have prepared amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act and that we have prepared in the Ministry and have referred the procedure to the Government for a new Law on Public-private Partnership which should, together with amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act, be very nearly on your benches, so on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament. What we are doing in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, i.e. where the Ministry of Finance is the holder of the main activity is the activity of drawing up a new Law on concessions which is also prepared in the ministry and we expect it first in the Government, and then in the Parliament very soon. Thus, we will also define the legislative framework through these three key basic laws, the Public Procurement Act, the Public-private Partnership Act and the Law on concessions, which will therefore be fully implemented in the Republic of Croatia. In view of certain newspapers at this point, I can say that we have also joined all those who will, above all, operate under the Public Procurement Act under the public procurement system. This is how we spend together with our partners the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Croatian Employers' Association throughout Croatia through all the counties and education for all public authorities, I mean the representatives of the ministries, but I think of representatives of cities, municipalities and counties that will conduct competitions under the Public Procurement Act and are conducted intensively for them at this time. One such educational program is currently under way in Koprivnica, the headquarters of Koprivnica-Cristevnica County. In addition, we have set up a "cool Centre" at the Ministry of Economy for which all interested people can call, inform and receive instructions on how to implement the public procurement procedure either by means of classical public procurement or by granting concessions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10754	Mr. Representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10755	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am sure that by joining public procurement, the Ministry of Economy and all these chapters you mentioned here will surely contribute to an even more effective public procurement system in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10756	Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10757	Dear Vice President, I'm asking Minister Shuker the question. Every two weeks, Croatian citizens look forward to gathering oil derivatives on INA pumps. The reason for the purchase of oil derivatives is by increasing the price of oil on the world and Mediterranean markets. However, 20% of oil demand comes from oil and gas condensates for domestic oil sites. So last year, a million and 139 thousand tonnes or 7 million 152 thousand 920 barrels of oil were produced in Croatia. The cost of producing more than 7 million barrels of oil is somewhere around $30 per barrel. Gases produced from such oil are paid by INA gas stations as if oil was produced and paid for 130 and more dollars. The citizens of Croatia obviously have no use for such produced oil, as gasoline produced from Croatian oil are paid as if oil was produced somewhere in the Persian Gulf and that the owner of this oil is some sheik. The local community also has no use or small benefits because the oil extraction rent is almost symbolic. Minister Shuker, the citizens of Croatia ask you: Who makes money on their oil?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10758	Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10759	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Representative, I do not know what function Mr. Mršić has asked the question, but I would like to say something for the sake of the Croatian public. I don't think it's correct to say that at INA pumps he collects fuel. INA participates in the total market somewhere around 55% outside the tourist season, and 45% participate in competing companies, and in the time of the tourist season, since these competing companies have far more highway pumps, concessions are given in some strange way between 2000 and 2004, then INA falls below 50%, and then when we talk about fuel collection, it should be said that the fuel has accumulated in Croatia. So she raised the price of both INA and all other companies dealing with fuel sales in the Republic of Croatia. Second thing, INA's listed on the stock market. We signed a particular prospectus and signed certain obligations. No administrative pricing, the market dictates everything. So let's not talk about any populist measures. On the other hand, one question arises, which fuel price would be at the gas stations of competing companies. Because if the problem in INA is, if INA has expensive fuel, then why the other five or six companies or, say, the three or four largest in Croatia that have half the market, why don't they, raise the price of fuel if the fuel price can be lower and if it's not a global movement issue. So the INA acts according to what's going on in the market, like all other companies, and therefore, maybe if those gas stations weren't given to some other companies in the concession, maybe if INA had them, maybe INA would be in a position that today might be a little different and maybe not having such ownership relations. If 25% had given someone practically 50% of the management rights and I could have asked a number of other questions here, but there's no point going back to something that was six to seven years ago, then the price of the barrel was $30, today it's 135 and quite different conditions. At the time, INA covered 90% of Croatian markets, today covers only 50% and could thus be listed unconscious.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10760	Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10761	Minister Shuker, you haven't answered my question at all. I didn't ask you how much the price of gasoline is on any pump and what is the share that pumps or any oil chain here in Croatia. I asked you this: 347 thousand tonnes of Croatian oil were produced in the first four months. That's 2 million 191 thousand barrels. The price difference between cost of production and what Croatian citizens pay on these pumps is 100 dollars or 942 million kuna. I asked you where those 942 million kunas INA earned and made a difference in income only in the pipes of Croatian oil. It is the oil of Croatian citizens and these money should be the money of Croatian citizens. I'm asking you a written answer to my question.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10762	Mr. Representative Branko Box. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10763	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I will refer my question to the Minister of Agriculture, Mr Pankretić. Here, since I come from Zadar County, a place that deals traditionally with agricultural production or mariculture and fisheries, I am interested in Mr. Ministers, which the newspaper adopts a regulation on the implementation of the capital investment model in agriculture or fisheries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10764	Minister Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10765	Thank you very much. Well, here's a few sentences about the new model we have is about capital investment. Perhaps at the beginning I should say that investment support implies the allocation of grants from the state budget and refers not only to agriculture but also to fishing. In this part, I would say by realizing that certain things that we can most directly affect the competitiveness of our farmers, but also fishermen, are to help them with their investments. In that part and in the budget, we provided almost three times as much capital investment as it was last year. Of course we've adapted the existing rulebook to that. Several of the most basic sentences about this, it goes in that section that for the initial return in this amount of funds we have reduced to 40,000 kunas where each of the agricultural producers and fishermen can ask the ministry for a refund of funds. As for the investments, we divided them into two groups. The first group are simple investments where everything our farmers and fishermen invest in in that part of the purchase of machinery, equipment, everything they need in their production and in that part is also increased the amount of funds from 250 thousand to 500 thousand kuna. Also here is one newspaper that has not been related so far, and that is that those agricultural producers and fishermen who have so far been able to use these funds, but only if they were in a certain credit line, will now be able to use these funds and if they deposit with their own funds. In that part about, we called them complex investments or other groups, they're operational programs. Out of the operational programme of cattle, pigmeat, peradarism, the raising of years-old plantations and all those brought by the Croatian government, in that part, the increase in funds to an amount of up to 3 and a half million kuna, which we believe will also focus on this part, which concerns increasing the competitiveness of our producers. I must point out that all these programmes, especially these operational work together with the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, where we also agreed with the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development to increase the payment deadline or extend these loans. They've been ten years so far, two years of grace. Now it extends to 15 years and also two years of grace period, which allows if our farmers can, I would say as easily as possible, to submit that total investment. We think that these improvements we have made in this part will in some way activate our agricultural producers, so here is a way to invite them all, given that the changes have taken effect, to report to their advisers at the Croatian cattle centre where they will be able to get more detailed information, here is the new Regulation and future investment opportunities in agricultural production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10766	Mr. Representative Branko Box.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10767	Thank you, Mr. Minister, I am pleased with the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10768	Mr. Representative Vladimir Ivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10769	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My question concerns the negotiation processes and is addressed to the Ministry of Justice, or to the state secretary Drazen Bosnjakovic. Given that this topic was quite exciting to the public some time ago, various claims have been made regarding how much we lagging behind in this area, in the area of justice, in relation to the conditions that we must meet for the European Union. The question would be wherever we are today, the end of the 6th month, the 23rd chapter is a crucial chapter in these negotiations, so I would be interested in the details of where we are, what is still waiting for us and what can we expect from the negotiations themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10770	State Secretary at the Justice Ministry Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10771	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. MP. Indeed, this is an extremely important time, an extremely important moment for our judiciary. Namely, regarding the judiciary, the Ministry of Justice and the Government of the Republic of Croatia sent a whole series of strategic-planned documents, action-implementation but also legislative proposals to be found at this session of the Parliament. Let me remind you, but after the break, we will have as the first item of the agenda as a strategy to combat corruption. Afterwards, we have prepared an action plan for the implementation of this strategy, which should be adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. But, let me remind you, not so long ago, we brought into this very home the Law on Free Legal Assistance, which will allow our citizens of poorer property to protect them from the court in a court of law. Also in this home we passed the first reading of the Law on a new network of municipal courts in the Republic of Croatia, which is a very large process, which is a very important law. After that, we also prepared the Law on Amendments to the Law on the Procedural Procedure, which will enable the subjects in the judiciary and give new tools to make us as effective and as successful as possible in the proceedings before the judiciary. We also have amendments to the Law on Courts at this session. The Law on Exercise and Law of Justice has also been drawn up. So a whole set and a series of legal and operational documents both in front of the Government and in front of the Croatian Parliament. I therefore believe that by the end of the 6th month we will really make great progress in these negotiations, but what is even more important is that I think we will achieve a better and regulatory and institutional framework for the functioning of our judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10772	Representative Vladimir Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10773	Thank you, Secretary of State, and I believe this will come true.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10774	Ms. Representative Mirjana Feric-Vac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10775	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, I would like to ask Mrs. Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and it concerns the youth and relationship of your Government, the Government of the Republic of Croatia towards the young. Let's say 20 to 40 years. Since mid-2007, all Croatian banks have significantly raised interest rates, which is also known to be on residential bank loans, resulting in a growth of credit wars ranging from 5 to 10%. So, at the same time in that period of pay in the last year, there has been a real decline. To today's young people, just during this period when they create a family, when they are employed and when they create the preconditions of one fruitful work and contribution, the improvement of the Republic of Croatia is unattainable, it is a need, it is a condition of everything else and becomes a weight around the neck. What does the government plan to do to enable young people to buy an apartment?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10776	Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10777	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ma'am. I've been given what the Parliament's secretariat has provided to indicate that you're going to ask something about the defense attorney, but no problem, I can, of course, also about young people, here, that's how it came from your club, but no, there's no problem. So, thank you very much for this question, since I can say that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has made a number of important steps in the past term regarding young people in Croatia. I'll mention some, for example, of the fact that we want to build a knowledge society, that we've wide opened the door for young people to be able to study. You know about the initiative, therefore, that all students can finish high school, and then so that as many young people as they can get into college. What we've done, I'll repeat, just before I mentioned, also the news of ensuring the conditions that can happen, so investment in science, investing in primary and secondary schools, building schools, it's all about young people. But also free textbooks that I already mentioned, of course transport and stay in homes. I also want to mention employment projects, so to get someone to the apartment, I answer your question, in order to have conditions for that, then it must certainly be done as soon as possible. We have created a series of projects for the employment of young people, such as target groups, here through the Ministry, i.e. programmes of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. In particular, we want to encourage young people to enter the world of entrepreneurship, in this sense there are also special incentives. And I would also like to mention one of the projects that is quite certain in the foundations of the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme, which we mentioned during the elections, and here we are now active and accomplishing, which is the release, i.e. certain benefits for employers, the release of the payment of contributions for health insurance, for those young people who are first employed, meaning in a year, this is one project that will come, precisely in the debate in the Croatian Parliament, which we discussed in the Government. So, that's, that's a series of incentives, I repeat to young people, for employment, and then, of course, to solve their fundamental issue with certain reliefs, that's, of course, a roof over their heads. I agree with you that this is one of the most important issues, first of all, that young people get schooled, get a job and then that they can solve the housing problem as soon as possible, because this is also something that relies on our national population policy. In this sense, we will also have certain measures that are recorded in this document that this House of the High has brought, so that as easy as possible, young people who start families, who want to have children, can resolve their own housing issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10778	Mrs Mirjana Feric-Vac.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10779	Thank you very much, I didn't ask about... I didn't ask about schools, I asked about this particular one, not only what it says, but what is really being implemented and what is part of the plan. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because this situation that we've been aware of, the last few weeks of violence among young people, and that now concerns that population that's in the schools you're talking about has escalated, students are counting on each other, students with teachers, it goes a long way with that wave of hate. Well, I'll say that even a young man's hate speech under 30 leads to a deal with a lawyer who refers to it. I think, Mrs. Kosor, that the government must be responsible and get praise for everything it does, but it's also responsible for what it doesn't do, it doesn't work within the deadlines and there are no real indicators to implement it. Therefore, the provision of material preconditions on housing and employment is required to provide young generations and quality education, as well as education for democracy when you are talking about schools. And on the trail of these violence that we are witnessing, also human rights and non-violence, to unconflictly solving violence, which is what creates us into a quality, quality precondition for better development in the future. And for this question, I will specifically ask you a written answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10780	Mr. Representative Sima Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10781	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I have a question for the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Defence and the Minister of the Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, and it concerns the housing of 100% persons with disabilities of the Homeland War. I ask if the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity has taken care of 100% of the Croatian military disabled first group, who have applied for building houses with a special adjustment in the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme. If this job is done, I congratulate you in advance, and if it isn't, I'll be begging the deadline until he can, about that job can be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10782	Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10783	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Representative, I am pleased to tell you and actually answer your question in one sentence. Yes, this job of housing the 100% disabled of the first group, so the people who suffered the most seriously in defense of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia has been completed. It was completed with the construction and the last house from the government's 100% disability management program. To Mr. Tiček in Varazdin, we have on that occasion presented a small celebration because it was indeed a moment to recapture what was made. And I can say that here is the housing taken care of, that 491 Croatian wartime disabled persons, the most difficult I repeat the first groups, that they were taken care of in different ways according to their wishes, so it could have been credited, could have been built by specially adapted houses, like this for Mr. Picchet, and I think I can say with pleasure on behalf of all of us, because this programme was naturally realised from the state budget, about half a billion kuna was spent in the care of 100% disabled first group. Of course, there will be some additional needs every year, one part of the house is already relatively old, so they will need to be edited, renewed, but all of this will be addressed in cooperation with the Ministry of Construction, so all of these additional needs will be addressed. But I have to say when you've already given me a chance to solve others, all the other problems of 100% disabled people, I really point out that with pride, because it was to be solved here in 2004 that one of my first tasks was, to solve the status of carers, or nurse for 100% disabled people, because these are people without other people's care and help others hard to live alone. Most of the people who have acquired the status of carers are women of 100% disability. What does that mean? This means that we have resolved their health insurance and pension insurance, but more importantly, carers, or care professionals of 100% disabled persons, have the right to be sick, so they also happen to have health problems and then have the right to be sick. We have also resolved the issue of additional help in treating 100% people with disabilities. Here are all here present you and the doctors representatives know that due to such severe disability there is also a deterioration of the general condition, meaning some other diseases and we have made it possible precisely thanks to the proposal of the Association of 100% people with disabilities, treatment, additional treatment of 100% people with disabilities in the Baro Chamber in Split, because the treatment in the Baro Chamber helps heal the wounds and treat decubitus etc. So I think I can say with pleasure, I repeat, on behalf of all of us, that as far as taking care of the most difficult disabled, we have done everything that has been done in the program and in this government and the previous governments and ended this process with regard to the apartments, definitely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10784	Representative Shimo Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10785	Thank you very much. God gave us that we don't have them or that the fewer we have of such a population. On their behalf, and I personally thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10786	Mr. Representative Stipe Gabric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10787	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My question was addressed to the Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Bozidar Pankretić. Since one large part of small agricultural producers has not been able to achieve any incentives in the past, and since we all see that the energy is number one in the world, but I think that the number one food in the world and by the forecasts of all experts for the next 15 years in the world will be the biggest problem of how to feed all humanity. What changes are expected in the Ministry of Agriculture, and will small farmers be able to achieve incentives they have not had so far?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10788	Minister Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10789	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Here, Mr. Representative, of course the State Aid Act is in agriculture and fisheries, I would say the basic law governing the overall agrarian reform. I stress that in this part of the new law he is in the making, he certainly includes a number of new amendments, and they mainly refer to a gradual adjustment to our legislation in accordance with European Union legislation. However, these amendments and additions to the Law on State aid in agriculture and fisheries, which will be here in front of you distinguished parliamentary representatives, refer to what we have established in the coalition agreement and the government's work programme. I'd say that was basically the part that we've established, and it refers to a reduction in the minimum incentive amounts that were in agriculture and fisheries. First of all, I would like to point out that what we have promised our voters, and I would also say in the Government's programme, and it concerns our agricultural producers, it is embedded in this law, and that since the adoption of this law, if it will be adopted by you, it will be possible for all those who have 1 hectare of agricultural land, and it also reduces those encouraging quantities that apply to livestock. I would say here a special amendment to this bill, and it refers to the income support of two, which so far amounted to a maximum of 5 thousand kuna, and we are now increasing it to 10 thousand kuna, for the simple reason that we have seen on the ground that this non-commercial family economy because only 5 thousand kunas could be shared in that part, and now we are increasing that amount to 10 thousand kuna, so that both members can get, and what is special to emphasize here is the part that we introduced that in this part we can get all those people over 65 years old, and they have no income. I would say that for the first time we introduce one category, and it applies primarily to our rural, our rural area, to allow those people who have not received any income so far in our country, have no pensions, have no help in that part, that this way we give them that part. I think that with the increase in breast-feeding cows from a thousand to 500 kuna, we will also help those farmers who are the most vulnerable and that in that part we will still make a certain step and reduce those processes that are happening in the country, and we are all aware that the village remains more and more desolate every day, and I believe that these measures will also contribute to keeping the village as many people as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10790	Mr. Representative Stipe Gabric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10791	Thank you, Mr. Minister, I'm pleased.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10792	Thank you. A few notices. At 11.30 is the Thematic Session of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. 13.30 so called the president, with the agenda "Status and Preparation for State Prosecution". And at 14.00 p.m., the chairman of the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, Mr. Zvonimir Mršić, called a session of his committee at 14.00 p.m. at the "Janka Draskovic" hall. Today. [[Intruder: Today.]] Ms. Representative Susana Bilic-Vardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10793	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I refer the question to the Vice-Presidents of the Croatian Government and the Minister of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, Mrs Jadranka Kosor. As I come from Brodo-Posavina County, which has made a major contribution in the Homeland War to the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, resulting in a large number of Croatian defenders, Croatian wartime disableds and civilian victims of the Homeland War, the issue has been addressed from this population. I was recently contacted by a member of the Homeland War Association because the association wants to raise a monument to its dead comrades on the first line of defense where they held the first line of defense and applied to your ministry, so to the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity, a request for help. I'm asking if there's a possibility that the association can get help from the Ministry and in what form?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10794	Deputy Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10795	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam MPs, there is a possibility. I hope that the association, or Croatian defenders, that you are talking about, has responded to the competition. We have called the competition and the competition has been held, and I believe that these are the Croatian defenders you speak of and that they have come forward. For the first time this year in the budget of the Croatian Defence Ministry this year, we also envisaged a special budget item for the construction or support of associations or cities, municipalities, counties for the construction of monuments to Croatian defenders. And so far, through various forms of support to associations, we have naturally supported this monument building, but for the first time this year, we have specifically planned 4 million kuna funds in this year because the need and interest to build monuments is growing, above all, the dead Croatian defenders. I think it's very good and important. So that's the part of building that mosaic I call the fight against oblivion. Each monument, or any such feature, is part of the stone in that mosaic. So don't forget what happened in the aggression on Croatia and don't forget the contribution of Croatian defenders and members of their families. Of course, since this is about budgets, we had to call a tender. That's how it's gonna be in the future. I expect and here's the occasion I've been using since you asked me to invite the leadership of cities, districts and municipalities where there's an interest in building monuments to help us. Which means in solving property-legal relations to acquire land on which such a memorial, a monument could be built. It's often a major obstacle. However, I would also like to mention, in the end, one obligation that exists under the special Law on the marking of the place of mass graves that we, according to this special law, of course also finance the construction of special memorial features. They're everywhere, same everywhere in places where we unfortunately found mass graves. So far, 143 have been found. Thus, we continue to do this in parallel with this project and of course, and this is also the year when the funds are provided. So, ultimately, all the defenders, or all the associations that want to participate in the construction of the monument, should report to us. We're deploying funds through the competition, and that's how it's going to be for the next few years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10796	Ms. Representative Susana Bilic-Vardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10797	I thank you for your positive and exhaustive response to Madam Vice President on behalf of the defense attorney and on my own behalf. I also thank you not only for answering this question but also for everything you care about the victims of the Homeland War in the government that Dr Ivo Sanader has done so far. I believe it will remain that way because you guarantee that Croatian defenders will not be forgotten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10798	Mr. Representative Tomislav Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10799	I refer my question to the Minister of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Branko Vukelic. Mr Minister, when it comes to the need and reform of the Armed Forces and their transformation into a modern and effective army, one of the essential elements in this process is the Kadet project. Can you tell us what this year's response to that contest was? Has he fulfilled expectations and results compared to previous years?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10800	Defence Minister Branko Vukelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10801	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representative, it is true that in reform, in modernising our Armed Forces, the Croatian Army project Kadet is one of the most important projects. So it's not only important to equip our army well. It doesn't matter just, we talked today, there was a question here about fighter armored vehicles, about ships. So it's not important just to have a modern technique. It's more important than that to have a well-trained professional young soldier and officer. That's why sometimes it's Cadet and we all remind ourselves of what this project is, Cadet? It is actually a civil military schooling of young people after finishing high school, having secured free and free accommodation and food and books and an average monthly scholarship of 1000 kuna and commitment and a secure job after completing schooling and a clear and binding contract with the Ministry of Defence. This year, we paid particular attention to this project, given that one of the problems of the Croatian Army today is also the age limit. So the age of our soldiers and officers and wishes and the need to precisely for this technique and modern equipment that we intend to obtain and which we have begun to obtain to require young professional staff for it, we have therefore both this project and the promotional and in all other ways strengthened this year and the result is more than good. We are pleased with it because 130% more candidates appeared for example this year than last year. Last year we had 366 candidates. This year, 840 candidates. Perhaps it's interesting that out of these 840 candidates as many as 16.5% of them 139 reported to military pilots. It's probably also the reason for these frequent inscriptions and about new fighter planes, which is a challenge for young people. But in any case, we are satisfied with this year's project but we will continue to strengthen this project next year because young, professional, capable people in the Croatian Army need and we are doing everything possible to make this call of a professional soldier attractive, attractive to young people to provide him with the possibility not only of quality schooling for the university that is finishing, but that he can progress further in his profession and therefore we have a whole series of education opportunities systems in other countries, the most developed countries of the world. So this call is really attractive today, and it will be more attractive every year, and I believe in the results this year, it gives me the right to be optimistic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10802	Mr. Representative Tomislav Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10803	Your Honors Minister, I thank you for your reply and, of course, I am pleased with it. But I use the opportunity to invite young and educated people, especially young Kninjka and Kninjana, as I come from Knin, to actively engage in the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia because this will ensure their existence, and will ultimately be part of a modern, effective, recognizable and victorious Croatian army.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10804	Mrs. Representative Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10805	Thank you, Vice President. I ask the question to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Polancec, as well as the Minister of Economy. Workers and workers “Mungosa”, “Dalmatinka new” and factories, the wood industry in Slatina has not received salary for months. Unfortunately, they are not the only ones in Croatia. The estimates say that about 70,000 workers and workers in Croatia do not receive salaries even though they work. Earlier mentioned workers say to themselves that they are slaves of the 21st century. Unfortunately, I have to realize that's not true, because their position is worse than slavery. Namely, those slaves received at least some kind of food, had some kind of clothing, and these workers we're talking about today don't take any money, and they have to pay every month the bills that come to them by the state. Unfortunately, though, when these workers ask to be paid, it means what the state has fairly earned says that it is not responsible for it, that it is a matter between the employer and the worker and other words actually washes hands like Pontius Pilate. But we all know it's not like that. Therefore, I ask you, dear Ministers and Vice-President of the Government, to answer me the following question, or when you will begin to treat salary default as a criminal offence, or when you will start sending workers who do not insist on paying their salaries to prisons where they actually belong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10806	Deputy Prime Minister Damir Polancec.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10807	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry you haven't listed another one in the list of companies in the problems, let's say "Viktor Lenac". I would be very pleased if you mentioned this company that also ended up in problems and bankruptcy and whose workers had been experiencing a great agony for almost 5 years. So the agony that this very government has ended in the best possible way by preserving every job and ensuring the future for these people. In the bankruptcy process, they received new contracts every three months for a certain period of time thanks to such a position. They were in situations that they couldn't even raise credits in banks as you well know, and thanks to the engagement of government members, we found the model of how to complete the bankruptcy process in the company, and I don't think I should remind you who the workers of “Vicor Lenca” brought to such a situation. Now that you're asking me about these other companies, I'm going to go ahead. You mentioned "Dalmatinka" so I'll tell you that the current owners of the "Dalmatinka" bought it, so in a bankruptcy procedure, as a bankruptcy society, so I just remind you that it was in 2002, 2001, and I hope I don't need to remind you who drove that company into bankruptcy. I must tell you that the workers, therefore, worked in a completely private company where the state has no ownership structure and ownership. Despite the fact, however, a solution has been found to continue production, restore production, and ensure that these workers are provided with all back-up salaries. The deal they signed on Friday is the result of negotiations that I personally co-ordinated and the result of these negotiations is that workers will receive 9 back salaries and 6 back from 2007 plus wages for January. Here, it's true, the lady just snapped. They say in the people when a man pops that it's true. So, these back salaries from 2007 as well as the January salary will be paid by July 15th, and for other salaries in the first half of this year by the end of 9 months precisely thanks to the engagement of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Our policy is not a mass bankruptcy launch. Our policy is not the end of bankruptcy by selling property, but also where the entrepreneur comes in difficulty and try to find a model to save every job. If the bankruptcy is already opened, do not end it by selling the property, but try to end it in a way that can ensure the existence of that legal entity, that company, the existence and continuation of production and, of course, keep as many jobs as possible. There we differ drastically from some other ministers, from some other government that has driven companies in difficulty into bankruptcy and therefore workers on the streets and created a new caste I call caste of bankruptcy managers in Croatia. You have not chosen the right example, because both Victor Lenac and Dalmatia are examples of how the state has managed to find positive solutions and save three workers. The companies you still mention for each of them can tell you what the difficulties are, what's happening with it, and how we try to find solutions that it can actually function, can do business and settle its obligations. Of course, I condemn any entrepreneur who neglects his employees, whom his employees are not his partners. Because social dialogue has no alternative and the company can only have a perspective in agreement and joint work on the development of the company between owners as employers and its employees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10808	Mrs. Representative Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10809	Well, Minister Polancec, I have to determine that this current speech of yours is actually a classic example of how the ministers in this government are throwing things out, the answer to the parliamentary question. I asked you a specific question, or when will you start punishing those employers who don't pay their wages? You didn't answer my question. Unfortunately, I must conclude that this example, meaning an example of all these companies that I have mentioned and also an example of your non-responsiveness to my question, is actually an example of how you are actually protecting the interests of large capital and showing one terrible social insensitivity for residents and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I would ask you to be calm when your colleagues, or colleagues, speak. So I'd like you to answer this right my question in writing.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10810	Ms. Nevenka Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10811	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I refer the question to the Minister of Health and Social Care, Mr. Darka Milinovic. In order to maintain the position of one of the Mediterranean's leading tourist destinations and achieve the national targets, which is to increase the physical volume of tourism and increase the value of tourism, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has, in the past, made many investments, both in the public and private sectors, which in a qualitative way, represent a significant improvement in Croatian tourism products. We know that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, together with units of local and regional self-government, participates in the preparation of the tourist season with many activities and additional resources. Given the expected number of tourists, and this year more than 11 and a half million are expected, but also expectations, justified, of course, tourists for among other things and timely and quality health care services, I am interested in Mr. Minister how many additional emergency medical assistance teams will be financed during this tourist season. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10812	Minister of Health and Social Care Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10813	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So as you yourself have said, Croatia is the express tourist orientations and the Ministry of Health and Social Care has included in the preparation of the tourist season, as we expect more than 11 and a half million tourists who will choose Croatia as a tourist destination, the Ministry of Health and Social Care has been involved in preparing and the season in a way that our citizens, of course, and those who come to the Republic of Croatia feel safe for the availability of health services in the tourist season, mainly in the 7th and 8th months. Each year, so this year, the Government of the Republic of Croatia with additional funds this year, and about 5 and a half million kunas are financing additional emergency medical aid teams. They are 14 this year, and I am also using this opportunity to thank the Ministry of Tourism who signed with the Ministry of Health and Social Care for the co-financing of additional tourist hospitals for the best availability of medical services at the time, so the tourist season, mainly for the 7th and 8th months. There will be 14 new points of emergency medical assistance in Karlovac, Ogulin, Perusic, St. Rok, Benkovec, Sibenik, Dupapoly, Krapina, Bregani, Kuttini, Okućani, Županja, Delnice and Vodice and all this is about the organisation of emergency medical care which has proved countless times to be good at, of course, saving human lives, but also reducing the consequences of severe car accidents. I use this opportunity to thank the emergency medical teams when many of us are on vacations, 7 and 8 months, they additionally work and provide additional insurance, here is Croatia as a tourist destination, so the availability of medical services during the tourist season. I also note that during the tourist season we will follow the movements and if the need arises we will respond according to the potential, and do not give God the needs.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10814	Ms. Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10815	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I am sure that by increasing the level and this type of service through these additional 14 emergency medical teams will contribute to the planned goal and show that we are not only the leading Mediterranean country in this resort, interesting, but also a responsible tourist destination.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10816	Mr. Representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10817	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs, distinguished members of the government. Today, we will discuss the Corruption Prevention Strategy in Croatia and we will all agree that corruption is indeed one problem, here and we are trying to eradicate it as much as possible. But let's remember the past years and times. One carlovic milk industry bought by a company that has a profit of 5,000 euros with 2 employees, 16 million and 500 thousand euros. So, for example, construction, a public-private partnership attempt to build a Osijek handball hall that was supposed to cost 843 million kuna, and a contract for 134 million kuna. So let's remember the attempts, i.e., let me show you the attempts to buy councilmen in a city council 40 kilometers from Zagreb where there is even a contract. If we weren't talking about Brodosplit, Maestro, here's a year ago, it's been a year since we don't really know what's been going on today, what's the point of corruption, of course, except for what's been bribed. The sale of Sunny Hvar to some secret contracts where the town of Hvar invented the 25% promised plus one share. Buying military trucks. Imagine, that's been discussed for four years. On 28 December 2004, a direct contract was concluded, and after the tender was cancelled. Now, my question is to the Prime Minister, Mr. Sanader. So, when will we find out, when will the Croatian public find out clearly transparently with all the data, not only about these affairs, but also about the others? When are we going to know the responsible persons? When we find out the damage that has been done to Croatian society, because the fact is that in all these affairs, the few that I have listed were also the top state officials. And I would especially like to ask for an answer regarding the purchase of military trucks because the President of the Croatian State is a little, little out, so if the president points out and he has no data, and nothing about it is done or I don't know that he has been taken as a representative. I ask you for an answer when we will find out the representatives, and then the Croatian public and about this purchase of military trucks.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10818	The Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10819	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Representative, I welcome your concern and your willingness to join us in this fight against corruption, one evil that pushes away every society and there is no democracy in the world today that does not fight corruption, against that evil. And that's why I'd be glad to have you make constructive proposals this afternoon and this afternoon. In this matter of yours, I see a steady interest, but it is not only driven by the interest of the MPs to find out, but it is a bit politically colored, because you know well, you mentioned several cases, that these cases are not run by the government, but today is being talked about by Polancec, the Deputy Prime Minister, and these cases lead to democratic justice society. It is up to the government to ensure that the judiciary can operate independently of any other government, on any other elements in Croatian society. That's what we often call the rule of law, let it work, and that's why we have to fight, and that's why we're going to fight. And that is why this afternoon, after two years, we have launched a new Anti-Corruption Strategy in Croatia, which is not addressed this afternoon, but today you will be discussing what we referred to a few days ago, because we want to include all segments of Croatian society in this and we want to show in the best way that corruption can be fought and that it can be effective. But when something like Maestro happens, then it's not in the government, you're asking us to find out who's doing what. It's up to the judicial authorities, to those who lead that case to resolve and resolve the case. And we're waiting for an answer to what was there, just like you. And just as you have made an appeal when the assembly representatives will find out who's doing what, and I'm giving the appeal, when the government will find out who's doing what.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10820	Mr. Representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10821	Thank you very much. I am not disappointed, I am appalled by this response that the government is powerless in the fight against corruption and that the government is actually waiting for answers to these questions. I asked specifically for military trucks. For example, this former defence minister is also sitting, which is the current interior minister, but I hope, Mr. Prime Minister, I know of your authority and I know that you can do it. You can initiate to clear all these affairs. So let's not leave it to the judicial system as conversion and privatisation. We were also easy to let go, so then all those malversions in conversion and privatisation went into obsolescence. Well, I hope this doesn't go out of date and I hope that an ordinary citizen isn't expected to fight as Mr. Cvitan says, submits applications and endangers himself. And another suggestion allow me. I'd like to ask a written but written answer and since you're traveling to Great Britain, here's Mr. Brown very well for which means public-private partnership. He prevented one heavy financial malversion of a public private partnership related to the construction of a hospital in Edinburgh. 800m euros was supposed to cost, his intervention prevented the malfeasance, and it cost 150m euros, so you can discuss it with Mr Brown.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10822	Mr. Representative Zvonimir Puljic. Here you go. Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10823	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Two and a half months ago, a report on the work of the occupier for 2007 was sent to the Assembly. In order to be able to discuss this issue in the Assembly, in order to have a debate on the state of and respect for the constitutional and legal rights of citizens, the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament has been set out that the Government must also be manifested on the basis of an opinion on this report. I'm asking the prime minister's question. Does the Government feel that the report on respect for the constitutional and legal rights of citizens and national minorities is not acceptable or is there any other reason why it has not sent its opinion yet in the parliamentary procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10824	The Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10825	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative, for this question. Here's the answer in your question, you said two and a half months ago it was directed... Then you'll understand that it takes the government two months to gather opinions from different institutions so that I can show myself about what's inside and you'll get into Parliament soon. [[The speaker is not on, so it's back on.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10826	Representative Mr. Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10827	At the time we received that report, we received all the other reports and I believe everyone else when they agreed to their reports that they needed some time, but the government reacted relatively quickly and did its part of the job. Obviously, the report is such that the government needs a little more time, I hope we get that. However, I would like to remind you, and we are all aware that, after a referendum in Ireland, the European Council will be forced to find additional opportunities, and in order to hunt down the deadlines that are scheduled, that their decision will certainly ensure that the human rights situation in the Republic of Croatia is present and the state of minority rights. We have an institution that does its job well, we have an institution that works, why we don't use it, why don't we discuss the state of human rights in the Republic of Croatia, not make it harder for ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10828	Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10829	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Prime Minister, the respected relatively few ministers and state secretary. I have a question for the Prime Minister, but he's got more important business on Jarun than answering the question of MPs that happen once every two months, so I'm going to ask the secretary of state. I'd like Minister Primorac to show himself here a few times. So a while ago, the minister announced to the public that he had not been informed about what was going on in the education portfolio, with his unexpected, hasty, hasty, and populist decision to postpone the state's graduation at speed and without consultation and with you, Mr. Secretary of State, but also with the other closest associates. And under two, he failed to make the necessary preparations in time to implement the legal provisions on the implementation of the State Graduation. Minister Primorac directly blamed all of his co-workers and competent agencies for that, so he cowardly removed all responsibility. The minister also announced that he had incompetent associates and that he had appointed people who were unable to do their job to executive positions in the agencies. If that is not the case, if it is not true what I said, then it is possible that all of you who are subordinate to him and closest associates have done your job well, but that the minister has clearly estimated that it is politically convenient to postpone the state's graduation. Now, if that's the case, then Minister Primorac and you and all his associates have been inappropriately humiliated and demeaned by their work or yours. My question is how is that none of the responsible and those other responsible, I mean whoever was responsible, I'd like to hear the answer to that question, was not responsible for his unhappiness. I personally find it odd that Minister Primorac is still a minister, that all other people who were in the ministry continue to work on the same project, and obviously something problematic has happened. So I ask, what is this really about, and what are the consequences of being held responsible, and what are you really responsible for? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10830	State Secretary Želimir Janjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10831	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Let me tell you right away that Minister Primorac is not where you mentioned, he was there but is now at the the thematic session of the Assembly Committee on Education, Science and Culture, as the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament announced and in a small council in the Croatian Parliament, so at 13.30 it began. I hope you join us there, too. So much for that. When it comes to national prom, let me remind you that since 2005 we have brought amendments and additions to the Law on secondary education where we agreed to introduce an external evaluation of education, so national exams as part of an external evaluation of education and state graduation. In this debate, which you participated in, it was therefore proposed that we conduct the state's graduation for the first time in 2009 in high school programmes, and a year later in 2010 in the four-year professional programmes. There were then several MPs who were cautiously troubled and said that it might be good to be the same year, but in most cases we agreed that it would not be bad for the first year to be a smaller population of 13,000 students, and then next year it would be frontal for everyone. During the preparation, and you are well aware of the scope of these preparations that started with one project, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Institute of Social Research and the Open Society Institute and when this project was completed then we opened a new project that lasted a year and where all the necessary preparations were being done. This delay actually balances the time of accession of the first state graduation, and thus in 2010, as we propose now in this law which passed the first reading in the Croatian Parliament, and will soon be submitted as a final draft of the law to the Croatian Parliament for discussion and we propose that it be all in 2010 and for one system and for another. Why do we think that's important? It is important, above all, because of the continued education of our high school students, that they do not go one way and the other in another way, that they take the final exam and the others only take the state's graduation, but that it be uniform for both systems to be the same positions when accessing high schools. All of these preparations were carried out by several institutions, as you have mentioned, so also the Agency for Professional Education and Education and the National Centre for External Evaluation of Education and the Council of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports for the introduction of state education into the Croatian school system and numerous expert working groups. Each of them, of course, had its share of the assignment. If you want, each and every one of us, I, first of all as Secretary of State, have a part of our responsibility for the whole job. We have therefore prepared all that is to be prepared. You must also know how national exams have been conducted and how the whole job has been done. Some of you in 2006 when the first national exams were conducted and congratulated everyone who worked on the job. But now, for the student protest, it happened that information had come that all the preparations were therefore to be sent down to the student, had not fully reached them and that a certain part of the information was missing. I am not going to talk about the percentage now, whether it is 5 or 10%, but since this project is going the first time and it is very important that this project will be implemented for the first time because any further implementation will be very much related to this first implementation and we would like it to go without any ambiguity and without any open questions. And that's why it's been delayed for a year, so in 2010 it's going to be the first state prom for everyone, I hope, successful.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10832	Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10833	Mr. Secretary of State, I'm not happy with your answer, because you've interpreted something that has been going through the media for several months. My question was clear, and that was the question, it said: Who will answer for what has not been done in the last five years? Who's going to be responsible for having the kids on the streets, and that's the only way to delay the state's graduation. And please a detailed written answer to a few questions. First of all, what would happen if the kids hadn't gone to the streets? They'd act like everything's fine and they'd take the state's graduation. Now you admit it's not right. What exactly will you do next year's action that you haven't done in the last four? And here I am, Mr. Vice President, particularly sorry if the minister is here in the building, and he doesn't find it appropriate that his job is to answer parliamentary questions. So I ask you to meet the Minister somewhere, and you, Mr. Secretary of State, to give a detailed written answer because the question was the responsibility that obviously and politically and professional responsibility unknown to this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10834	Mr. Representative Mario Zubovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10835	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I have a question for the secretary of state, Mrs. Bianca Matkovic. Given the great effort of the Croatian government, the Croatian Parliament and the negotiating team in the accession negotiations process to complete the negotiations by next autumn, I would ask you to tell me how things are now, how much more work we need to do and how many laws we need to do in the Croatian Parliament. And tell us if two chapters have been opened today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10836	State Secretary Bianca Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10837	Thank you very much. As you yourself have mentioned, over the past few months we have stepped up the process of negotiations for full membership in the European Union, coordination has been made between all the authorities of the state administration and as regards the fulfillment of the SAA and the national programme that was adopted here in the Croatian Parliament in February, everything is going very well. The very commendation that we do well has also come from the ambassadors, or... The head of the European Commission delegation to Zagreb, from Mr Michael... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] which was here in Zagreb 10 days ago, and is coming to our negotiating team from Brussels from the member states. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is true that today's intergovernmental conference in Luxemburg, where two new chapters are opened, is chapter 19 of social policy and employment and chapter 2 of the free movement of workers. Of the 35 chapters, so the 20 chapters are open, two of which are transparently closed. We expect to, we can, and we want to fill all the Barrosos, so-called. Barroso's terms, which is that by the end of June this year we bring in all the criteria, we meet all the criteria for opening the chapters. Likewise, we should conclude negotiations by the end of the commission's term of office, i.e. until autumn, by the end of autumn, by autumn 2009. As regards the implementation of the MPPU in total this year, we need to pass 120 laws and 365 sublegal acts. So far, 65 laws have been sent to Parliament from the government, of those 65 laws, all first quarter obligations have been met, and around 73% of the obligations have been met from the second quarter. We have 13 laws left to pass in the second quarter, of which seven laws are already going on this week and next week 6, so we will meet all the legal obligations that we have been given under the national programme for implementing the harmonisation of legislation. I want to tell you that Croatia will continue to meet all its requirements, we will meet everything that has been put before us, we are working at speed, but we do not neglect quality either. 17 laws are currently in the European Commission in the opinion, because the procedure to mean laws before they go to adoption in the Government, to pass the check and to pass the opinions of the European Commission. The harmonisation of legislation goes well, all of the criteria, means that the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement also works well. And for now, I say, I am pleased, I answer your question, I am pleased during the negotiations and all praise for both our negotiating team and our mission in Brussels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10838	Mr. Representative Marin Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10839	Thank you very much. I'm glad to hear that negotiations are going so well, and I hope that by the end of this year we will open all chapters, and hopefully we will close many. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10840	And the last mojican. Mr. Agent Iron Happy Flego.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10841	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to address my question to the Vice-Presidents of the Government and the Presidents of the Co-ordination of Social Activities in the hope that we will not be Mohicans, but something else. But my question is this, Madam Vice President, what you intend to do to eliminate confusion at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, and to introduce at least minimum order and certain efficiency. In fact, the activities of the Ministry of Science and Education are reduced to three strategic issues, or three strategic areas. One is the reform of primary and secondary education, as well as the role of external evaluation and state graduation in this, to the Bologna process in different aspects of it. Those third to scientific technological research all three of these strategic definitions are seriously shaking. State's graduation, we've already talked. The Bologna process is completely undefined, as the first generation of the Bologna process ends without the labour market being prepared for it at all, and in particular no campaigns have been conducted. They'll be out of the bench in a few weeks. The first generation is entered in the second cycle of the Bologna process, and that the basic elements of it, the learning grounds, were not enough to talk to employers, they were not agreed. And as for the third question, I would ask you to also remind your boss, Prime Minister Sanader, who in 2006, became president of something called "all you know", which is a keybinding for the Strategic Council for Science and Technology, and we have not learned anything about the activities of that council. Instead of hiring the most capable people for education in Croatia, Minister Primorac employs two new speakers, and will now have six in the ministry and a total of 22 or 23 people in his cabinet. So my question, what are you going to do to eliminate confusion, introduce order and efficiency in this ministry? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10842	Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10843	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Representative, so here's a lot of questions you've asked in one, I'll answer first what concerns the Prime Minister, Ivo Sanader, because you asked me when I would warn my boss. So, I'm not going to warn him, because I think the Prime Minister is doing a great job, but I'm going to mention a part of your question, and I believe you'll get a written answer, and I'm going to make sure you get a written answer, because not one of your government presidents jumps and doesn't ignore it. But we'll see what's up with this. As for the issues that actually concern the entire work of the Ministry of Education, i.e. science, education and sports, I think I can say that as far as the government's assessment is concerned, that the work in this ministry is good, that they have shown this, I believe that you followed last year just when we were preparing for the elections, that there have also been some surveys by which both the public evaluated and the work of individual ministries and ministers, and that this ministry was at the very top of the public assessment of success. If we were substantial means in relation to, here at the end of 2003, how much more do I remember in science and education about 3 billion kunas more, I think that these are the same data that you have to consider as parliamentary representatives, that a lot has been done to build new education capacities, or university, that some new steps have been made in terms, I will not repeat now what I have said several times today, Croatia as a knowledge country, as a knowledge society, so that education can really be available to everyone. As far as the Bologna process is concerned, there are scores different, but I can tell you here that I will prepare a written reply for you around that segment and look for my relevant information that I do not have at the moment, from the competent ministry. About the spokesman, I don't know, I don't have that information, so I can't answer that. But what I can do, is that the Minister of Science, Education and Spa is really trying to make sure that education, science, and then the third part of his ministry, means that sport concerns are at the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the programme for the next period. I'm not going to mention all those now, because I don't think it's the time, all those school facilities of the new school that we built and all those sports halls, I certainly believe you're interested in that, but I think I can say that I don't agree with the assessment that there's a mess and there's some chaos, and I think things are absolutely under control. I believe that it was a good move by the Minister of Science, Education and Sports, and I believe that the minister will, above all, continue in cooperation and in dialogue with students and students and possibly some other open issues. And for this part, as I said, I'll send you a written reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10844	Mr. Agent Iron Happy Flego.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10845	I would not reach out and focus on certain marketing results, but actually much more on international expertise and assessments that are in no way as favourable as we can hear about it in public. Let's say the legal proposals that are semi-factory, which are forced and which come in a completely reverse order from what would be expected to come in and where they come in order countries, about concepts, about conceptual differences that make it impossible to realize what you've drawn out. Let's say the curricula reform and then, at the ultimate convention, the introduction of a society of knowledge about promises that are completely unrealistic, because in 10 years, in order to achieve 20% of higher education, it takes much more than an increase of 3% of students a year, we need 700, 750 thousand higher education students to reach today's level of higher education in developed countries, etc. So I think there's a lot of work and a lot of questions that seem to be asking me for an answer, so I'll be grateful for the written answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10846	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. "Currently in the morning" is over. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing at 15.15 with a debate on the agenda item Proposal for a strategy to combat corruption. Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. It's on the agenda: 1. The proposal for a anti-corruption strategy is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 129. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Justice, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, internal policy and national security and health and social care. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary at the Justice Ministry Marina Dujmovic-Vukovic will further explain the proposal. Here's the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10848	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. It is undeniable that corruption as a harmful social phenomenon violates the foundations of social value, and among the most significant consequences of corruption is the loss of public trust in state authorities. A national programme to combat corruption adopted by the Croatian Parliament in March 2006 created a legal framework for the adoption and implementation of an action plan developed by the authorities in charge of the implementation of the programme itself. Consistent implementation of the National Corruption Prevention Programme 26/2008 it has shown that indeed the only systematic implementation of measures to combat corruption and the involvement of all instances can lead to improvements. The implementation of commitments under the National Programme passed a law on the financing of political parties, amended legislation by local elections, introduced a direct selection of mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors. The highest management posts in the central authorities of the state administration have been professionalised and the Public Procurement Act is in line with European Union standards. Penalties for corruption offences have been tightened and changes in the CAP have enabled the application of specific safeguards for all corruption offences within the competence of the USKOK. The progress made by amending the legislative framework and strengthening institutions is best spoken by figures. Thus, in 2007 34% increased the number of convictions in corruption cases and more than EUR 15 million was frozen. It should also be noted that Croatia, with an estimate of 4.1 on the corruption perception index for 2007, recorded the highest score since 1999 when it was first covered by this survey. On the basis of the survey on the presence of corruption, it has been assessed against which emerging forms and in which segments of society should focus action in the fight against corruption, where it is necessary to focus and to highlight the necessary priorities of action. The proposed draft anti-corruption strategy was developed on the basis of a revision of the implementation of the national programme and in cooperation with a wide range of participants. In addition to state authorities, members of the academic community as well as the non-governmental sector were involved in the work. In addition, the draft working document was discussed at the Round Table in the Croatian Parliament and at the meeting of the National Council to monitor the implementation of corruption control measures. The draft strategy defines corruption as an illicit exchange between public officials and other persons in order to achieve their own breakthroughs. The principles promoting the strategy are the basis of a modern legal system and commit to constant reflection, supervision and implementation of the rule of law of good practice responsibility, cooperation, prevention. The strategy's focus is to strengthen the institutional framework for the fight against corruption, the full affirmation of zero tolerance access to corruption, the strengthening of integrity, accountability and transparency in the work of the public authorities and other forms of preventive action and inter-resorship and cooperation with civil society organisations. In the fight against corruption, joint action and the implementation of anti-corruption measures are important. That is why coordination between ministries is strengthened by the government's decision to set up a Commission for the Implementation of Corruption Control Measures involving representatives of state bodies at the level of the deputy head of the body. At the same time, all bodies are tasked with setting up internal establishment units for the implementation of corruption control measures from their portfolio. The leadership of the Committee in charge is the Minister of Justice. The position of the National Council for the monitoring of the implementation of the corruption control strategy, which is the working body of the Assembly, is also clearly defined in order to ensure the possibility of proactive action, effective monitoring and guidance of the implementation of the strategy. The strategy sets out specific areas of prevention of corruption and objectives. In the area of preventing conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties, it is necessary to upgrade the implementation of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest and, in order to strengthen the integrity of civil servants, clear guidelines on the imposed prohibitions should be drawn up. In the field of financing of political parties, it is necessary to draw up a comprehensive analysis of the implementation of the effects of the law in practice and to systematically use and strengthen financial control mechanisms. With regard to the exercise of the right to access information, it is necessary to continue to develop the content of the public administration portal and to specify in particular what exceptions are to the general right of access to information. Public officials, by obeying the rules, contribute to strengthening citizens' confidence in public authority. Finally, the ethical codes of each individual form the basis of national integrity. It is the responsibility of every citizen regardless of their status. Integrity involves honesty, honesty, trust, credibility, justice, regularity, and perseverance. Values that enable equality to all individuals and organisations. Upgrade the integrity of the state service is needed. Strengthening the ethical integrity of civil servants through further development of anti-corruption training in the state service and introducing self-assessment and risk management at individual and organisational level. In the area of the economy, it is necessary to build on the follow-up of the simplification of business regulation, the systematic application of all existing control mechanisms to prevent the phenomenon of the undeclared economy, etc. The gray economy. By bringing spatial plans to all units of local self-government. Public finances require upgrades to the implementation of the Law on Personal Identification Number as an important instrument for fighting corruption. Strengthening the existing internal and external structures of financial control in order to improve and improve the business of all budget users and to establish a transparent and easily accessible system by extending a range of potential applicants of irregularities. In public procurement, it is necessary to upgrade the public procurement system, which includes contracts for the award of concessions and public-private partnerships in addition to contracts in public procurement of goods and services. In the area of the protection of whistles, it is necessary to upgrade the amendments to the legislative framework in order to protect people who report corruption in good faith and to raise awareness of the system of responsibility and the need to protect those persons. The judiciary needs to continue its activities in order to fully implement judicial reform, especially those aimed at raising efficiency, impartiality and professionalism in the judiciary. In healthcare upgrades by adopting regulations that would oblige systematic compliance with the criteria of objectivity and visibility, reviewing the hospital procurement systems in order to identify possible corruption risks as well as further strengthening the health system's capacities. In science, education and sport, it is necessary to ensure the transparent use of the funds envisaged for these activities, to finance projects of associations that develop anti-corruption awareness in children and young people and to lay down criteria for the selection of scientific recruits and criteria for the procurement of scientific equipment. In the criminal prosecution and application of criminal law, it is necessary to continue to pursue the detection and persecution of high-level corruption, to establish and confiscate property benefit acquired by corruption and to achieve better inter-resorship cooperation with tax, customs, administrative, foreign and other state authorities. International cooperation should continue to work actively in the work of the Council of Europe as well as in other regional initiatives and by improving operational cooperation to combat corruption with other countries through Interpol, Europol and Eurojust. In view of the need to spread public awareness of corruption, it is necessary to systematically organise, conduct education of students and students, organise round tables on monitoring the implementation of the strategy, encourage the work of NGOs in the fight against corruption. The proposed strategy highlights the need to strengthen public service integrity as a basis for credible, professional and uniform behaviour. In addition, particular attention is paid to strengthening interagency and international cooperation and cooperation with civil society. The strategy is implemented through an action plan to combat corruption that will be revised every year. In this way, it is possible to continuously assess the level of achievement of the objectives set. This surveillance strategy was developed based on experience gained in the implementation of the previous national programme, but it also represents a new well thought-out legal framework for continuing systematic work to combat corruption in our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10849	Thank you. The Justice Committee, chairman of the board, Mr. Representative Ivo Grbic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10850	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Madam and Mr. Secretary of State, At the 7th session held on 16 June 2008, the Croatian Parliament's Justice Committee discussed the proposal for a strategy to combat corruption submitted by the government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 5 June 2008. The Committee discussed the proposal for a anti-corruption strategy as a parent working body in the section relating to the work of the Justice Committee. In the introduction of the proposal's representative, she pointed out that the proposal for a strategy was revised by the National Corruption Prevention Programme 2006/2008. The priority objectives of the strategy are to improve the legal and institutional framework, strengthen the integrity and accountability of public authorities, improve international cooperation in the fight against corruption, raise levels of efficiency, detecting and pursuing corruption. The implementation of the strategy will pay particular attention to the coordination and cooperation of relevant institutions in the implementation of anti-corruption policy, the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties, the financing of political parties, the right to access information, the integrity of state services. In the area of judicial reform, the strengthening of independence, impartiality, professionalism and professional training in which enviable progress has been made will continue. In the debate, the committee members unanimously supported the proposal for a anti-corruption strategy that improves the forms of the fight against corruption based on experience in implementing the 2006/2008 national anti-corruption programme. A year. The government of the Republic of Croatia was supported to give a special place to fight corruption, to review the action plan in the anti-corruption strategy every year in order to achieve the coordination of all institutions participating in the implementation of anti-corruption policy. After the debate, the Committee on Justice unanimously decided to propose a next conclusion to the Croatian Parliament with 9 votes. The anti-corruption strategy is being adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10851	Thank you. Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, Committee on Health and Social Care, Chairman of the Committee Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10852	Thank you very much. At its 6th session, the Health and Social Care Committee discussed the subject as an interested working body. The Committee considered this strategy primarily in the section relating to the health system team before the health system is always in one of the first three places by the perception of corruption. Citing the proposal for a strategy on countering corruption as well as the preliminary explanation of the proposing representative, the participants agreed in a very broad discussion that the strategy was a continuation of previous anti-corruption programmes in 2006 to 2008 and that there was a significant improvement in the fight against corruption. The strategy as well as an action plan for which it would be good if it were at the same time in the debate aims to improve all forms of fight against corruption, I board members. Public perception of health corruption, with an emphasis on doctor's bribery, is far greater than the real situation, all members of the board agreed. The opinion on the high prevalence of healthcare corruption has a particularly harmful effect on the doctor and patient relationship, and this can then reflect negatively and on the effectiveness of treatment. The availability of healthcare is high, but waiting lists are for a number of reasons, and especially because of the increasingly significant lack of doctor and overall difficulties in financing the health system continue to be long. The waiting lists certainly encourage corruption, and one of the measures to remove it is to improve the material position of overall health care, and hence the doctor. It would be useful to warn board members, re-examination among patients after treatment, who would certainly receive and give a more objective picture of corruption in the health system. The latest such survey was conducted seven years ago and showed a low degree of corruption in health care. The result showed below 1.5% of corruption after patients left the hospital. Public procurement of consumer material, medicines and medical equipment may be the largest area of corruption in health care. The existing system of supply of medicinal products, consumables, diets, equipment is necessary to review since it is worth more than 7 billion kuna per year. By establishing the standardisation of diagnostic and therapeutic procedures as well as equipment, it will remove subjective access and decision-making when purchasing, and thus potential corruption risk. The impact of the pharmaceutical industry on corruption in the health system is significant. The abuse of therapeutic and diagnostic procedures is stimulated by an illegal way of greater and unwarranted consumption. Therefore, in the process of providing healthcare and achieving a higher degree of objectivity, it is necessary to establish clinical guidelines for diseases that have a particularly expensive treatment based on objective clinical trials on the use of expensive medicinal products. The impact of the product manufacturer on the production of such guidelines should be completely excluded. During the debate, concerning media reporting on certain cases of healthcare corruption, the opinion was expressed that it would be useful for every major health institution to have a spokesman to avoid many misunderstandings between journalists and doctors, and journalists would get accurate and objective information. In addition to the proposed implementation of a professional survey on objective standardisation of total consumption, the establishment of algorithms for key diseases, the committee members agreed that it is also necessary to strengthen the coordination of all participants in the health system to implement the strategy and to combat corruption more effectively. After an extensive debate, the committee members unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt a strategy to combat corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10853	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club, Mr Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10854	Mr. Vice President, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. Corruption is a problem that almost every European Commission report highlights as an example of the inefficient work of the competent authorities, particularly inefficient and slow judiciary, but also indecisive of the executive and legislative authority of the Republic of Croatia. The question is whether all of us from ordinary citizens to parliamentary representatives are aware of how much damage corruption brings to the political, social and economic development of Croatia. In the world, various World Bank research estimates estimate that the scales of corruption amount to between a thousand and 500 billion dollars, representing 3 to 5% of the total economic activity. All 1% of these corrupt activities are detected. If we apply such a method to Croatia, we come to an estimate of approximately 6 billion kuna damage caused by corruption. Given the amounts related to USKOK's findings that are going on around 2 billion kuna, I would dare to expect that this estimate of 6 billion may even be too low. Why does it matter? For these 6 billion, the growth of gross domestic products is reduced, which is less pay, less pensions, and then the separation for health care and social care, for education, science, for culture, and this is a message that must be persistently repeated in order for everyone in Croatia to understand why corruption is the most powerful disease that is stifling democracy. The fight against corruption is not only a struggle for the security of citizens, it is a struggle for freedom and general prosperity of Croatia. It has been calculated that if our gross domestic product grew 15% if we succeed in the fight against corruption at the level it is in the European Union. The Slovenian Embassy examined the experiences of its companies in Croatia and found out that 40% of them have problems with corruption. The Austrian Economic Office conducted a survey with its companies in Croatia, where they assessed the problem of curbing corruption, so how important they thought it was for them. On a scale of 1 to 5, they highlighted the 4.57 importance of curbing corruption for their business. At the same time, the satisfaction of solving this problem was only 1.90. It is not a problem for Croatia, only Croatia. In 2008, in 33 countries of the world, a sample of 1186 directors showed that 24% of companies are facing bribes or job losses. 18% of those who refused to pay bribes lost their jobs. So Croatia is not a specific person. But what makes Croatia different from the world? Let me remind you of the case of the Finnish "Patria" or "Simensa" in Germany where the authorities stood up sharply against their companies who agreed to pay bribes in the countries with which they were doing business. So the difference is in our ability to deal with corruption. The strategy ahead of us today provides a partial answer to that question. I must immediately express the dissatisfaction of the SDP club that the proposer has not decided to present the strategy at the same time with the action plan, because without an action plan this strategy actually means nothing. We believe that, with the action plan, the strategy would be more comprehensive in showing representatives the future of curbing corruption in Croatia. We have in this way received an empty framework, the truth somewhat firm, but the image within that frame is pale and we do not see the details in which we are thinking of struggling with the cancer of modern Croatian society. The strategy is only the path we want to reach our goal, and the goal is to make Croatia a rule of law. The parliament, the government, the judiciary, the state's attorney's office, the police, must provide security, solidarity and prosperity to citizens. Organized crime and corruption draws their strength out of the ineffectiveness of the state apparatus and proportionally. Neither organised crime nor corruption has a party, nor a national character. So in the SDP, we believe that if there are topics in Croatia on which we can reach a national consensus, then the fight against organised crime and corruption is certainly one of these topics. Not solving attacks on people who offer evidence of corruption, journalists who expose to their texts the links of organised crime and corrupt politicians to only one message, the rule of law does not work, there is a powerful para-state organisation that has placed all segments of society in its circuit, which means democracy is dead. If democracy is dead, then we come up with the worst attitude that comes from the assumption that everyone is corrupt and that there is no point in fighting corruption. We must ask ourselves three questions: Is there corruption, as it is viewed, which is the breadth of corruption, in which areas is the most present and harmful and, if we know it, we can get to the point, and that is what we do now in the fight with corruption. We can also read the answers to these questions in a proposal for a strategy ahead of us. That's not the first strategy. In 2002, the Parliament adopted the first, in 2006, second known as the 2006-2008 National Corruption Prevention Programme, and we can monitor the relationship of Croatian society towards corruption. The third strategy whose proposal today is ahead of us is based on the previous two. And perhaps in the introduction of this strategy, we should have looked at the biggest failures of the previous two, because this analysis could help us to come to a solution to make the fight against corruption more successful in the next period. The relationship between society and corruption in Croatia is reflected through these three strategies, that change comes from the realization that corruption is inevitable, that we understand that it is harmful, from the realization that only morally condemns itself to today's political necessity of reform and the suppression of corruption. In this way, we had three stages of fighting corruption in Croatia. The first stage that lasted from loneliness until the end of the '90s when corruption was considered to be a moral issue, but not a political problem. Those ten years of corruption, other than cursing and condemnation, have not been done much. The greatest corruption affairs that we experience today are the ten years that have arisen. Let's remember that a third of Croatian companies then went bankrupt and 400,000 workers were out of work. That was the age of a non-democratic corruption deviation. The only cure was more democracy that began in 2000. But the formal start of the second stage of the fight against corruption in Croatia can take the year of the establishment of USKOK in 2001. At that stage, it is clearly recognised that there are problems of corruption, programmes and plans are beginning to be created, but their implementation is not realised as imagined. Laws have been passed, national strategy programmes have been adopted, international obligations have been taken over. But words prevail, not deeds. Let us remember Bechtel, sunny Hvar, Brodosplit, Verona, the Prime Minister's Watches, "Maestra", "Diagnosis", secret and public procurement of MORH, highways, academic corruption, political corruption, non-transparent waiting lists in hospitals, corruption in the media and that I no longer list, because most of you will probably talk about it in individual discussions. The pressure of the European Union forces us to enter the third stage in which we are now. It's not enough to have laws. It's supposed to be implemented. It is not enough to guess, to measure and weigh priorities, to activate resources, people and tasks. I would dare say that the formal start of this third phase can again be tied to the USKOK and the establishment of the Police National Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime provided for by this strategy and the Action Plan. USKOK was founded in 2001, but so far it has not been 100% personneled. It's made by prosecutors, not investigators, and without the effective police, USKOK is powerless. If someone is shutting down in the police or is under the control of a corrupt politician, objects can pick up dust in drawers and come out of the drawer when it suits someone. I believe the new structure will speed up the resolution of corruption and organised crime cases, because, you know, we don't have any convictions from the sphere of corruption and organised crime so far. high corruption. Justice doesn't just have to be done, it needs to be seen, it's a famous saying. Because people don't act the way things are, but how they see things are. So a final judicial verdict for the crime of corruption is the only safe way to strengthen the integrity, accountability and credibility of the body of the state government. In fact, citizens say 72% of civil servants are corrupt. The corruption perception index published every year by Transparency International for Croatia is no longer the best indicator. It's used most because it gives an illusion of the greatest shift. He's really the best this year, a few years back 4.1. But colleagues and colleagues are not passing grades. On a scale of 1 to 10, the first passing grade is 5, so we see that our fight against corruption in Croatia currently does not have a passing grade. The national programme for the fight against corruption, adopted in 2006, said the biggest problems in Croatia are corruption in the judiciary, health care, local self-government, public administration and politics. This is how the new strategy sets priorities in these areas as well. The public often balances politics with political parties, although politics is every exercise of public authority. This means that the political will and determination to combat corruption best shows the intention of resolutely curbing corruption in politics and government. In fact, although in the fight against corruption, we must achieve a national consensus in a way that all political parties must find within themselves enough power to be expelled from all those who see their political position as an opportunity to achieve personal benefit, not as a service of public good. Yet the greatest responsibility is for those who exercise authority. Corruption is always, I stress, always related not only to general morality but above all to power, or morality in the exercise of authority, duty, or public service. Therefore, I am convinced that here in the Croatian Parliament, the central temple of democracy is clearly asked by all the competent authorities and individuals who are quoted by this strategy and action plan to do their job, to report regularly on the measures and results taken. In order for us to assess the success of these measures, indicators are needed by the basis of which the evaluation is being carried out. Unfortunately, these indicators are missing and this is one of the shortcomings in this strategy. If there's no result, someone has to answer for it. We can adopt the best national strategy, the most comprehensive action plan, but if we do not have honorable, capable, motivated and responsible people who will implement this strategy and plans in reality 24 hours 365 days a year, then this strategy and plan will be just another make-up to buy the opening of 23rd chapters and join the European Union. I hope that this assembly does not aim to us, that Croatia is a part of the European Union in which all citizens will live safely and trust in public policy and credibility of society institutions. The body to be monitored for the implementation of this strategy and the action plan is the National Council for the Monitoring of Corruption Prevention Programmes. It is a body established by the previous assembly of parliaments that in the past was one ornament, as some said the fig leaf and who actually passively received reports of knowledge, but did nothing to be proactive and to act actively. The strategy ahead of us and the action plan states that this body will have greater significance in the future. Over the past month, the National Council has held four meetings, which I consider to have contributed, and has shown that the body that will indeed be able to make sure that this strategy is achieved. However, this should be written in this strategy, it should be written in this action plan and I believe that the National Council, in order to fulfil its task, should be defined as all other working bodies of the Assembly. Well, colleagues and colleagues, isn't it absurd that we today adopt the Anti-Corruption Strategy in Croatia, without the National Council having the opportunity to express its views as the working body of the Parliament, because according to the Rules of Procedure, this was not possible. I believe that this strategy, the action plan and then this House must change it by its decision. And finally, this anti-corruption strategy is certainly not flawed. However, along with the action plan, and it has been stressed once again that parliamentary representatives have not seen it, and proposals to improve the strategy that I am sure will be here today in this debate, which I hope the promoter will adopt rather than ignore. This strategy can be the first step towards effective prevention of corruption, but I stress it is indeed the easiest step. It follows in practice that will be much more difficult. I hope that this Parliament will contribute to this strategy in practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10855	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10856	Thank you very much. A colleague incorrectly stated that in the years of 90, he said for the next 10 years, so by 2000 there was no fight against corruption. There was a fight, and all of us who resigned at the time can testify to you about the details later at the bar. But don't be false. It also says 4.1 how far Amnesty International rated Croatia last year is not a passing grade. It is a passing grade because the director of the same Amnesty, Amnesty International, said the graduation from three to three is positive. The countries that have three to the bottom are.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10857	No Amnesty, no Amnesty, the lapus was.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10858	What did I say? Transparency international. I am correcting, Transparent International, so 4.1 is a positive assessment, it is negative from 3.0 to below, and it is not true, therefore, that it is negative, it is positive because it is the highest rating of all the countries of the former Yugoslavia and it is one of the highest grades when we also take into account the new member states of the European Union. So you need to tell the truth. It's also not true that there's no action plan. The action plan has every ministry and you can find it on the Internet.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10859	HNS MPs' club, Ms. Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10860	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. The national anti-corruption programme is one of the nine criteria or preconditions that Croatia still has to fulfil to open negotiations in all 33 chapters. As is known, we have made a commitment to meet these standards or prerequisites by the end of this quarter, which means practically up to 15. The 7th of this year, until the end of this Parliament's session. In particular, this is a measure, therefore, of the National Programme for the Prevention of Corruption, which I assume will include this strategy and an action plan is necessary. So it is not enough that the ministries have, whatever action plans, an action plan is necessary as an integral part of the national programme to combat corruption. This is a criterion or prerequisite for the opening of Chapter 23 of the judiciary and fundamental rights. We know that every citizen of this country also knows the country's senior representatives who assume the Presidency of the European Union 1. The 7th year of France, they said directly, said that this is exactly the chapter, so the subject of the judiciary and fundamental rights, which is what the President who will lead the European Union in the semester or in six months which should be where we will open all negotiations in all chapters said that this is exactly what will be an absolutely crucial topic. All topics are important, but in our case, justice and fundamental rights are the most important. In that sense, in this area it will be evaluated in the first order, or as the most significant of our preparedness for membership. This fact as well as the metricity of things, of course, as well as the fact that corruption is something that is important to the functioning of the state and functioning of the institutions, destroys people's trust in institutions, are the reasons why the proposal for a strategy to combat corruption that is ahead of us as soon as possible puts it on the agenda. And it's important that he came on the agenda. But at the same time, these same reasons are also arguments to make it a quality strategy. In this case perhaps more important than in all the other standards we had. A recognizable quality strategy that has a visible objective chance of helping fight corruption. Unfortunately, the proposal for a strategy ahead of us has little chance of contributing to the repression of corruption. And it seems that there is one misunderstanding that actually three bales should be the role of the state in curbing corruption, where the state should begin. The state isn't any factor in that system. Therefore, on which points and which instruments the state should function, it will act in the fight against corruption. In this strategy, all the laws that this House passed in 1999 and they deal with the subject, or they touch on the topic of curbing corruption here. Then, a list of 13 international conventions, protocols, contracts signed by the Republic of Croatia on the subject neatly. A series, a list of a number of institutions, agencies, national councils, commissions and departments that have been established over the years to combat corruption. But nowhere does it stand, with measures and effective policies, all of this will really affect the reduction of corruption. Institutional apparatus, legal apparatus, international conventions extensive. How this will be used to reduce corruption is not really spoken or read in this strategy. Maybe that's not entirely true, in fact, three points can be seen from the strategy that she's relying on, if it can be called some, let's say by the instruments to combat corruption. One, strengthening the institutional framework to fight corruption. This one, by all accounts, is quite strong at first. Two, better co-operation between relevant institutions that already exist in the fight against corruption, in any case it is safe to cooperate, better, to cooperate better than worse. And three, zero tolerance of corruption. I don't think there's anyone who won't agree to definitely advocate zero tolerance for corruption, but how it will in any way effectively lead to the reduction of corruption that exists and now that everyone swears to zero tolerance for corruption, when there is an institutional framework, and everyone is in favour of all segments of this institutional framework working well together. The remainder of the text other than these 3 general indications is some kind of text that could be called a declarative ethics. There are first principles and objectives in the strategy itself. It is said in principles and objectives that it is necessary that there is a rule of law, surely. There must be good practice, too, necessarily that there is a responsibility, too. It's necessary to prevent corruption, the same truth. Necessary efficiency, too. Necessary transparency. I think there's also no one here, and so far there's no one who would have challenged any of these points. But how is that going to happen? Our question is not whether we agree that it is better that the laws apply rather than not apply, that it is better that there is no corruption, but that there is corruption. The strategy's task is to show how this goal will be achieved. In the very strategy of declarative ethics, this is just a few short quotes. The strategy mentions strengthening the ethical awareness of the public service, building ethical competences, teaching about the code of judicial ethics, perfecting the state's attorneys in the deontology of the profession, with all due respect, I apologize to everyone if I have made a mistake. I'd say only colleague Flego and possibly colleague Shakespeare know what that means. Strengthening the ethical integrity of civil servants, strengthening the ethical framework in key risk areas, ethical education for participants in public procurement procedures, I already see participants in public procurement procedures flocking to ethics lessons. Strengthening awareness of the importance of preventing corruption in public procurement, creating professionals with adopted ethical principles, adopted ethical codes of professions, etc. Ethics is an interesting thing, important and, of course, that there are different forms and educations and self-educated and lifelong education in which people can deal with it, but it's not the job of the state. It's not the job of the state to teach certain segments of society in ethics, if anything is the other way around, but not to go into it now. It would be fun if it weren't dangerous and harmful to write such works at the time when it measured us for the most important chapter, and we don't have any more time. And there must be complete awareness about it that we don't have any more time to joke about it this way. What is the role of the state in fighting corruption? I don't think this is malicious writing, I just don't think it went from trying to answer the question of what the state, corruption is complex, there's culture, human nature, whatever you want, but it's not something the state can or should influence. What is the role of the state in fighting corruption? It's not changing human nature, it's not preaching how it's better not to steal, but to steal and better to be honest, but to be dishonest. The state has to deal with what it can and what it has to do, which is to reduce and eliminate structural corruption space. So by laws, institutions, practice structurally reduce that space where corruption happens. I'll give you some examples of that. For example, in an openness survey, i.e. the accessibility of investment countries, which was in 174 countries. The countries are ranked by different indicators, among other things by the number of permits needed to build up an average large production plant of 2 thousand square meters, of 174 countries under the number of permits Croatia is 170th place because it needs 28 permits. It's a space for corruption, 28 times different licenses are removed, which, of course, open, that instead of 28, five permits, it's automatically structural, that's what the state can, structurally reduces the space for corruption or orderly payment of debts by the state rather than delaying payments of over 300 days. So if the state pays its debts within 60 days as the biggest debtor, it reduces the space for corruption, simply no one enters the attempt to climb the list more when it will be paid, however, when these deadlines cross 150, 200, and 300 days, there opens the space necessary for corruption. There's a place where the state can intervene. There is a law on the financing of political parties, no need to complain about the Law on the financing of political parties, the Law on the financing of election campaigns should be adopted. We just don't have it. The Law on the financing of political parties does not include regulating the financing of election campaigns. That's the problem. And that's how it structurally reduces the space for corruption. The decriminalization of bribery, in a situation where both the criminalized and the bribed and the one who receives bribes in the country by the sidelines, what happens is that people are afraid to apply, because they automatically reported themselves. These are structural measures that can have some effect, I only list them for illustration, which would mean that. Corruption is not a problem of education, it is a problem of space within functioning institutions, opening opportunities and opportunities for corruption. Citizens should not be educated on the harmfulness of corruption. They know that. They know that corruption is both harmful and expensive. They need to be freed from corruption, and that's the role of the state, and that should be our common plan. So I think this is really a common interest. If you need help, I'd be happy to. It may be planned that some of these real measures that may have an effect be part of the action plan. However, I pray that we, then, be told here, but let's try to put together something too small and useful, which at least has a theoretical chance of actually reducing corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10861	Thank you. Club IDS Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10862	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. MPs, how to begin? First of all, I agree with every word written in this strategy. It's all for five. But life is something else. And it should be clear when we talk about this speaker seriously and talk like serious people without parole, without political demagogy honestly with names, last names, but what are we going to do? We don't have the courage to do that. So then all of our discussions turn into one political larpurlatism, I'm telling you a story that ultimately doesn't have much use for. I personally believe that corruption can most be spoken of by parties changing in power. So those who are able to control the state budget, extra budget funds, large public companies from one INA, Croatia insurance, from one ACVLADIMIR SheKS: I, from Croatian shipyards, Croatian mails, Croatian railways, I don't know Luttria, Rijeka-Zagreb Auto-roads or some other and so on. Otherwise, that's what you have to say. Whoever is in power directly or indirectly controls as much as 68% of what is created or produced in this country. And then it's clear that those who produce those remaining 32% can very easily agree on how to proceed. So the real power in the Republic of Croatia is primarily in the executive power covered by the always ruling majority in this House. Then in large capital and understandable in the media. Let's just say that the Croatian broadcasting budget for last year was more than a billion and 500 million kuna. So for the television Mr. Chacic would privatize. And the IDS was also against the privatisation of the third channel. Lately, as the greatest anti-corruption fighter, he has either surfaced or appeared Goran Strok. To be clear, I have nothing against Goran Struk, I only saw that man once at the London airport in 1992 or out there for 10 or 15 seconds. I know he arranged five hotels in Croatia and I sign his statement that NATO's wing should be taken over against corruption when one of us is attacked. However, he said that, by any chance, he had granted a permit for the Hotel Belevue 200 thousand euros would not have lost within 6 months because of the failure of the hotel to work EUR 5 million. However, the same Goran Strok did not notice or say that in 2001 he received the Excelsior Hotel, which is far more attractive than Bellevue for 500 thousand marks or EUR 250 000. In parallel, taking over the 30 million marks that the state spent in its reconstruction, and now we see that it is traffic that can be achieved in Dubrovnik in a hotel in less than a year. What am I saying? The large capital well captured this country. If he has a country, then he won't be blackmailing any of the local officials. This must be the first lesson to the insecure local bureaucrats not to blackmail those whose path is open to the top of the government. So to be cynical to the poor, clearly they can blackmail, they can ask for bribes, but those who are high-ranking when it comes to capital it's understandable that they can't. Where does the biggest corruption in this country lie? So she was lying in conversion and privatisation. It's fortunate to be rude to privatize. In the armed work of the Croatian Army and in large public enterprises. Now, how do we go if we agree that the biggest corruption in this country is privatisation, weapons and large public enterprises. So I'm going to start right from this last one, from these big public companies. I was horrified when I, for example, read a list of state-owned companies by income and party leadership in the last Globe of 12.6. Now let's see what it looked like from 2000 till this year 2008 to 2011. INA group 24.8 million kuna. Tomislav Dragicevic HNS, today Tomislav Dragicevic, HNS. Croatian electricity economy 10.2 billion kuna 2006 Ivo Covic, SDP. Today Ivo Ant, HDZ. Let's move on. Croatia Security 3.9 billion kuna. Marijan Curkovic, SDP. Today, Hrvoje Vojkovic, HSLS. Then we have Croatian railways, 3.8 billion kunas. Marijan Drempetic, SDP. Today Davorin Hoba, HDZ. And I'm not simply listing all these names here is 25 of those directors who manage property no less than the value of 71.8 billion kuna. I'm saying it's not about who's running each other or who's in charge of a single supervisory board? For me on these boards there must be people in politics. So those who have received electoral legitimacy, who have to address citizens with that name, but the problem of those who are headed by these administrations, and they are clear that they would not be controlled by the wish of God, under quotes, independents that are far easier to buy from people who are politically engaged. Second, weapons procurement in the 1990s. Croatia had about a hundred secret accounts in the world. I claim it wasn't Zagorec or Zagorac who gained immunity from commissions. After Tudjman's death, Šuška, I don't know Minister Martinović found out about the individual account codes and thus began to return, return under quotes, but clearly by his name money into the country by investing clearly in Pula, Dubrovnik, Rovinj. The town of Zagreb sold him a resort in Savudrija, etc. It is clear that all this needs to be cleared up, but only a hypocritical authority, I will say it can stop or stop on Zagorec, especially after an interview that was held two or three weeks ago, let me mention again that he gave to Globus, mentioning many tycoons that have thus reached the property in Croatia, I mentioned one, and among other things he mentioned former prime ministers. For such, here you see catharsis, meaning clearing up with these traces of history, unfortunately Croatia has no power. Why today, 13 years after the end of the war, does not come out with information about who armed the Croatian army, who supplied everything to the Croatian army? I said it already, so it's about former prime ministers, the most respected tycoons, hotelers, etc. And maybe it's best to keep a man quiet so that someone doesn't, I won't tell him with his head, but not to be hit with some baseball bat, even though it may be a privilege compared to those who put bombs under cars and things like that. What we do in that fight means against corruption. We're, like, going one step further today, we're privatizing everything by that logic, I guess, why in a particular company would steal for a little while, when all of that, like in shipbuilding, when we can only leave it to one person or one company. We are bringing in two of their directors or employees today in "Olinik", the only liquid shipbuilding site in Croatia, and in those bankrupt companies of "May 3rd", "Brodoplita", "Kljeljevica", "Lance", watch out for anyone. Man destroys Lenac, damage to the state over a billion kunas, and nothing to anyone. Well, it's clear that I'm cynical, but it just insults a man when two people are raised in Pula from the Oilies, and in other shipyards nothing. On page 3, we have seven laws in this report, 13 conventions that we have adopted, or ratified, but all of this can clearly hold water until the masters come to us. But don't think that corruption is just about people in power or just people in power. It has largely, I dare say in various NGOs that someone must finance, who don't usually say that, it has, corruption and in the media, among public officials in public enterprises, etc. However, I think we can all agree that the worst corruption in this country is if corruption occurs in the judiciary. Thirty days ago, here's the case of the so-called. The sun gardens in Dubrovnik. What's really going on here, what's the so-called. tourism land that did not enter the core capital, which will say that it is the property of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, meaning the Croatian State, about the fund a little later, but the judges wrote it down to a tourist society. To be clear, I don't think there's gonna be anything in the end. Why won't it be anything? Because on that basis, I dare say every third or fifth, let me be a mild judge, from judges of commercial courts or courts in Rijeka, through various judges of the municipal court in Istria, should simply be closed, and they knew hundreds of acres of etc. tourist land. Therefore, by my judgment, selective justice eventually becomes the greatest injustice. Clearly, it's better to prevent anything than never, but I repeat, corruption in the judiciary should be the most painful thing for those people who should give you justice. What I would also like to note is that Mr. Goran Strok, once again I will say I have nothing against him, has mentioned on several occasions that he will meet with Vice President Damir Polancec in due time, all with the aim of taking over the hotel complex Liburni. I agree that Liburnius is a devastated hotel society, it is crying out for fresh capital, it would be ideal for several brands to come there, not just one monopoly. However, when it comes to Liburnia, there are several court proceedings in different courts, administrative, commercial court and whether the Government now has the right to judge instead of, say, competent courts. Does this mean that the government is aware at this hour that it is losing the dispute with one Liburnia or with Dark or with Damir Osto. If so, our 130m euros will go away. Otherwise, what Mr. Goran Strok offers. He would take over for 70m euros the demand of Dark Ostoja, and according to which the state has it. This all looks to me like one big deal, more specifically to operating on a deal between the government and SN Holding... And Darka Osto... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The government probably found a tycoon that can reconcile both the ruling and the public and part of the opposition, which is not surprising because of the many who were in power Goran Strok received the most attractive properties in Dubrovnik and the Primorje-Gorski County. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What I want to say is, it's certainly the "Maestro" action, and I welcome other actions of USKOK after filing, but these lawsuits are half the same falling into the water, and they all end up being brought down to some official who's issuing construction permits or some doctor, which is funny or someone like someone like me to listen to who got a gift from someone worth 300 or 500 kuna. And I'm also calling on Hop to not play with people that way. Maybe they're right when they file those criminal charges, but if they don't have proof of any of them, then let's not keep them in custody for a year or more or so. What surprised me most, however, through another law we will talk about that through the public procurement system as much as 44.4 billion kuna goes for this public procurement, which is 16.15% of the gross social product in the Republic of Croatia. All in all I see is that we are bright, I think that some of the United Nations rankings are also political tables, and without courage, we will never stop corruption in this country, so our lessons today about honesty can also be shared by Croatian tycoons. It's pathetic what we've burned down to, but no matter what kind of debates and materials like this and suggestions should be supported, so we'll see what time will bring.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10863	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative Luke Denon.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10864	Mr. Vice President, while reading "Globus" he of course claimed that by listing the names of people who were as management presidents at one point said "Croatia Insurance Curkovic SDP". It is incorrect that Mr. Curkovic was ever a member of the SDP or related to the SDP, not even a member of the Alliance of Communists. He also said in further explanations or reading of course "Globus" that the presidents of the administration, I suppose, are those and such, and among other things Mr. Curkovic is corrupt. Since I personally know Mr. Curkovic, I think it is essential to qualify one such name in this House as bribery, because man is extremely modest, professional insurance and is not corrupt. You also told your colleague Cain "Liburnia" was a devastated company. Absolutely not. You've been reading the final accounts, not a devastated company. So I ask you to either read the final accounts or, that it is in court and that the court proceedings are being conducted, that is correct, but I ask you to be more specific because this is how you read only "The Globe" obviously that you deceive the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10865	For the HSS club, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10866	Dear Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, MPs and MPs. The Croatian Peasant Party Representatives' Club will support the adoption of the Corruption Prevention Strategy, although we can agree with those remarks that have been made in order to be usefully united to discuss the action plan as well. Of course, corruption has existed since the state-run organisation of the human community, and its presence throughout history has confirmed to this day that corruption is a feature of all state arrangements regardless of political structure, regional or religious membership. Corruption is impossible to completely eradicate, but it can be contained in political will, legal norms and the promotion of an anti-corruption worldview. Corruption is a hidden phenomenon, and therefore the presence of corruption cannot be accurately measured or there is a unique concept of what corruption is. The additional problem is the unequal treatment of corruption, the illegality of its individual forms in criminal law in the world. Corruption in the broadest sense is any abuse of rights or powers over the assets or rights of others in order to gain or gain private benefits, and may be present in the public and private sectors. Today's most used definition of corruption abuse of public authority in the private benefit of which corruption always involves the public sector whether it is corruption within certain parts of the public sector, whether corruption transactions take place between the public and private sectors. The main feature of corruption is that it stems from public authority and discretion in decision-making and is most often referred to as political or administrative corruption. Political corruption is present among senior state officials and politicians, but we will also see from examples that I will later highlight, both at local and regional level, so at all those levels where political decisions are actually made, or at those levels where high powers are entrusted, resulting in a great responsibility to represent public interests in the conduct of duty. This is high-level corruption, unlike administrative or bureaucratic corruption, which concerns public administration officials in charge of implementing decisions, regulations and policy measures that have already been discussed. In both cases, however, the consequences are the loss of trust in state authorities, which also has a negative impact on the economic development of society. Even the very impression of corruption raises the credibility of every government from local to state level. This is why it is very important to demonstrate a serious intention to calculate with all forms of corruption, and this contribution is also made on the basis of experience gained in the implementation of previous anti-corruption programmes. Their implementation resulted in a steady increase in the number of criminal proceedings for the activities of medium and higher levels of corruption, as well as a rise in public awareness of its harmfulness and the need for suppression. That the situation is going to a better witness and the Transparency report that he gave a 4.1 assessment of corruption perception index for 2007 is the highest rating since the assessment of corruption perception is conducted. Priority areas in this strategy are to prevent conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties, to implement rules in the financing of political parties, to exercise the right to access information, to strengthen the integrity of public administration, to regulate public procurement, and to protect damages and persons who report corruption in good faith. I'll look back on several of these areas. What we consider particularly important is that in May 2008, an amendment to the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties was adopted. A commission has been established for implementation. The Council shall submit an annual report to the Croatian Parliament. According to that 2007 report, the commission conducted 16 procedures to resolve conflicts of interest, and in 12 cases it made a decision that determines the conflict of interest for officials. Except that they had to repent publicly, or pour the ashes, the corrupt officials were not fined. One of the objectives of this strategy should certainly be to review and strengthen the ethical awareness of the public service by introducing compulsory specialised training in order to build ethical competence. It could be called prevention from the beginning, but ethics has something to do with character, and when someone said it, "poor," then you can only improve it by effective supervision and fear of punishment. The amount of fear of political party leaders is difficult to measure, but the Law on the financing of political parties for the first time restricts the amount of donations and prohibits anonymous donations so politicians are less and less able to hunt donors as fish in a blur and I also hope that there will be no more cases that some don't give God for these donations buy cars or apartments. The objective of this strategy is to increase transparency and accountability of financial management, strengthen internal financial control mechanisms for political parties, and ensure that independent auditors carry out what has been done for the first time this year. An extremely important law in this package on anti-corruption laws is the Law on the right to access information, it was passed in 2003, but unfortunately it is frequently broken, as is evident in the Transparency report, which as the most problematic, when it comes to this law and the most netranspartant in the pursuit of the activities of its work, sees units of local and regional self-government, so here are several examples. The town of Split, information was requested about the performer of the waterfront restoration work and the total costs. There's no answer. The city of Zagreb, information was requested about the PR agency which the city hired to carry out public relations activities, selection criteria, contract details, and paid fees. There's no answer. The city of Osijek, information on the cost of the mosquito control action, competition, decision, cost and basic information about the contractor has been requested. There's no answer. The ineffectiveness of institutions in a corrupt society prevents the import and application of new technologies, entry of capital, successful privatisation, mobility and increasing labour productivity and other economic performance factors. The common cause of corruption is excessive regulation of a particular economic activity, namely, economists consider corruption a rational choice that reduces business costs in the reregulated environment. Therefore, HeathroRez is a good solution. Acceptance and implementation of its recommendations is the key to succeeding in removing the possibility of corruption in the economy, as well as improving the stimulating atmosphere for the development of entrepreneurship, but it is certainly not one and enough measure. We at HSS take seriously the statements of the director of the Austrian Foreign Trade Office in Zagreb, Dr. Petra Haslahera, who cited the poll results, which showed that poor public administration, slow judiciary, corruption, and land books remain a major problem for Austrian companies' investments in Croatia. It would be bad if good relations between Croatia and Austria violated such data on obstacles that are true and faced by Austrian companies in Croatia. Namely, the foreign trade exchange between Croatia and Austria in 2007 amounted to 2.2.12 billion dollars, an increase of 18% compared to 2006. Also, according to foreign investment in the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Austria is first in line. As much as we want it to stay that way, and I think it is extremely important for the Republic of Croatia, we need to take the remarks of Austrian entrepreneurs seriously. Also, with full seriousness, we need to ensure that people who report corruption in good faith are protected. First knowledge of corruption is regularly held by employees of state bodies, companies and other legal entities, and in most cases, because of fear of loss of work or other sanctions do not report such illegalities. The prosecution of corruption, particularly at the middle and high level, is not sufficient only through the punishment of the perpetrators, it is necessary to establish and confiscate the property benefit obtained by this criminal act through criminal proceedings. Therefore, a provision should be introduced in the Penal Code on extended confiscation of property benefit acquired by corruption. This strategy, as well as the action plan, requires people who will take it seriously and implement it, so as not to leave a dead letter on paper. Even though this is certainly not an easy task today, we can look back on the "Vukovar Stories" Siniši Glavasevic and perhaps those who are presently on various responsibilities can find a lesson in how to behave, I quote: "I give up all claims of justice, truth, by giving up trying to subdue the ideals to my own life. I give up everything I thought was necessary yesterday for a good start or a good ending. I'd probably give up on myself, but I can't, because who's gonna stay if we all turn to ourselves and run into our own fear. Who do you leave the city to? Who's going to watch over it for me until I'm gone, while I'm looking in the garbage of human souls, while I'm sorely vulnerable and tired in the heat while my eyes grow in front of a personal defeat? Who will guard my city, my friends? Who's going to take Vukovar out of the dark? There's no back stronger than mine and yours, so if you don't mind, if there's any more youthful whispers left in you, join us.", the end of the quote. The question I ask, when we talk about corruption that is from all of the exhibitions could be heard, the biggest problem today in Croatia. Who will guard Croatia and carry it forward who know when true talk about corruption is not popular, is not allowed to seek easy popularity, by lying about it. Who will guard Croatia and carry it forward? Those who know and want to swim against electricity, despite fear and risk, and despite the strong cries of risk groups of ideological approaches to reality, who know that everything has its price, an evil destructive, well-blessed. It should be remembered, especially that it applies to us politicians, dead fish swimming downriver, living fish swimming upriver against electricity. I hope we'll be living fish.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10867	Thank you. HDZ Representatives' Club, Mr. Representative Damir Sesvecan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10868	Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, in this debate, I will say that the Croatian Democratic Community Club will fully support the Anti-Corruption Strategy before us, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has submitted for adoption to the Croatian Parliament. Corruption is a global phenomenon, it is not the specificity of any society or country, so neither is Croatia, and it manifests itself through various phenomenal forms and at all levels of society. Corruption is a harmful and undesirable social phenomenon that violates the fundamental values of society that hinders the development of the entrepreneurial climate and political culture, morals, culture and tradition will grow, weaken citizens' confidence in public institutions. It endangers the rule of law, the rule of law, honesty and justice, equality, equality and security of citizens. There is no unique definition of corruption, it is changing depending on the time, social and political context. The most commonly used definition is that of the World Bank, under which corruption is a misuse of public authority for private benefit. The Civil Law Convention on Corruption defines it as a request, offer or grant or receive, directly or indirectly, a bribe or any other unlawful benefit or the possibility of obtaining such a benefit that interferes with the proper performance of any duties or behaviour required of the recipient of the bribe, the unauthorized benefit or the possibility of obtaining such benefit. More recently, corruption on economic social development has been particularly stressed. It acts as an additional tax that increases business costs, negatively affects competitiveness and increases business risk, slows down economic growth, and therefore poses a major obstacle to economic and general social development. Among other corruption is a generic notion of a number of corruption crimes. One of the key anti-corruption laws is the Penal Code, which prescribes the penalisation of bribery and bribery, abuse of the duties of the state government, illegal intervention, bribery and bribery in economic business, bankruptcy in bankruptcy proceedings, and unfair competition in external trade. The legal framework as a prerequisite for the success of the fight against corruption is in a series of laws, the 17 are listed in the strategy, and I will mention only some of them. These are the Penal Code, the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Law on UskoK, the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, the conduct of public duties, the Law on the financing of political parties, the Law on the Protection of Witnesses, the right to access to information, the Law on Public Procurement, on Labour, on Courts, etc. The legislative framework of the Republic of Croatia is largely in line with international legal standards which are implemented through provisions of international acts, i.e. conventions and protocols on the prevention of corruption. Since corruption crimes are a secret in the field of illegal activities, corruption is impossible to measure precisely, and therefore it is necessary to distinguish the actual scale of corruption and perception of the presence of corruption. The anti-corruption strategy that we are talking about today and which is ahead of us whose proposal, therefore proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, also stresses the need to strengthen the legal and institutional framework, prevent, prosecute and sanction corruption, interagency and international co-operation, as well as to spread public awareness of the harmfulness of corruption and the necessity of its prevention. The strategy was developed on the basis of bankruptcy experience in the implementation and revision of the national corruption control programme in 2006 to 2008, which sets out very precisely the situation in each area, defines the objectives and provides for concrete measures to achieve the objectives set. It is also important to say that the strategy is based on the Government of Croatia's 2008-2011 programme, which reiterated its awareness of the scales of corruption in Croatian society as a clear political will to combat it through zero levels of tolerance against corruption. It implies reacting to every form of corruption regardless of the level of bankruptcy and the position of a state official who is corrupt. The implementation of the previous national programme shows huge progress among all bodies directly involved in the fight against corruption. It is visible through strengthening the institutional framework as well as the adoption of a series of laws that introduce a number of anti-corruption mechanisms that enable competent authorities to effectively prosecute and punish the perpetrators of corruption crimes. All these efforts have resulted in recent years, as has already been said by a steady increase in the number of criminal proceedings for the crimes of medium and higher levels of corruption, unlike in earlier years when most of the proceedings were initiated due to minor crimes, etc. street corruption. Such procedures as Maestro, 5 stars, diagnosis, certainly contribute to citizens' confidence in state bodies and influence the creation of a more positive perception of corruption. In 2007, the number of convictions in corruption increased by 34% and USKOK froze a total of 15.43 million kunas of property benefit acquired by corruption crimes. The result of these proceedings is certainly a higher mark of Transparency International, according to which in 2007 the perception and corruption index was 4.1, which is the best score since '99. A year. The Anti-Corruption Strategy and the Action Plan to be implemented, which will be adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of this strategy, highlight the strengthening of the legal and institutional framework, the affirmation of multi-tolerance access to corruption, strengthening the integrity and accountability of the work of state bodies, greater detection and prosecution of corruption crimes, improving international cooperation and cooperation with civil society organisations in the fight against corruption. Also for the fight against corruption of exceptional importance is the newly established Committee for the Monitoring of the Implementation of Corruption Control Measures, which was appointed on 10 April this year by the Government of the Republic of Croatia as the national co-ordinator of the judiciary. In the next period, close co-operation of the Government Commission with the National Council will be necessary to monitor the implementation of the national anti-corruption programme through its proactive role in monitoring the implementation of the strategy. It will also need to harmonise the provisions of a decision establishing a council from its very name to the role it will need to play in monitoring the implementation of this strategy in relation to the current national programme. As regards the very prevention of corruption in the strategy, priority areas have been identified in the fight against corruption, thus preventing conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties, implementing rules on the financing of political parties, achieving access to information, strengthening public administration integrity, regulating public procurement, and protecting damages and people who report corruption in good faith. The need to invest additional efforts to prevent corruption in the area of economy, public administration, health care, justice, education is highlighted. As has been said in all the above areas of recent years, major shifts and progress have been made. Thus, the amendments and additions to the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties of May of this year have identified a number of new measures to prevent conflicts of interest, as well as an additional step towards achieving greater independence and reducing the possibility of policy influence on the work of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest. The Law on the financing of political parties, independent lists and candidates from January 2007 ensures full transparency of sources of funding and costs of political parties, regulates the height, way of giving and receiving donations, bans on anonymous donations, ensures supervision of the State Office for Audit and the Ministry of Finance, clear, accurate and up-to-date information on how to exercise rights and obligations contribute to strengthening citizens' trust in public administration, and thus the availability of the administration to citizens. The law on access to information provides citizens with the right to access information from state authorities with a view to strengthening the integrity and accountability of the body of state authorities. An important method to prevent corruption is to strengthen the integrity of public administration officials. The integrity, as stated by the State Secretary, includes honesty, trust and honesty, justice and credibility, which is precisely the subject of a code of conduct which also guides state officials to avoid corrupt behaviour and conflicts of interest. The government of the Republic of Croatia adopted an ethical code of state officials in 2006. In the Central State Administration Office, the Department of Ethics has been established which, with matters relating to the application of ethical principles in the public administration and the education of detention officers and applications and complaints of citizens about the possible corrupt and unethical behaviour of civil servants. The code of police was also passed. The Code of Judicial Ethics and Ethics Code of State Lawyers and Deputy State Lawyers have also been adopted which also contribute to the impartiality of the judiciary. Low salaries of government officials certainly increase the risk of corruption. Therefore, the regulation of this area is one of the measures of the Strategy by adopting the Law on civil servants’ salaries. In relation to corruption risks, public procurement is one of the most critical economic activities. The high level of risk arises from the very height of the total public procurement in the Republic of Croatia during the year. For example, in 2006, it amounted to nearly 29 billion kuna, almost 12% of GDP. The public procurement law entered into force on 1 January 2008 and is fully in line with European Union standards. While the fight against corruption is not the primary objective of public procurement rules through clear rules for public procurement procedures, rapid and effective legal protection with education and training of public procurement officers certainly reduces space for possible abuses and corruption. For public finances, with an existing system of internal financial controls and the adoption of an anti-corruption programme in the customs sector or the adoption of the Customs Service Act, it is very important to highlight the anti-corruption effects that will result from the Personal Identification Act. This law will link all official records of persons and property based on which changes in the property status of citizens and legal persons will be easier monitored. Since judicial reform is already in itself one of the fundamental anti-corruption mechanisms and the effectiveness of the judiciary has greatly affected the reduction of corruption, I want to highlight some of the achievements achieved in the past few years. Some were spoken of by the secretary of state, but they were not retaliated because of the public. Criminal law has tightened the penalties for corruption crimes. The amendments and additions to the 2006 Criminal Procedure Act have extended the possibility of using specific reconnaissance measures to all corruption offences within the competence of the USKOK. From December 2004 to December 2007, the number of pending cases was reduced from a million 640 thousand to 969 thousand. So for more than 650 thousand or more than 41%. In the period from August 2004 to December 2007, land-booked items were reduced by 65%, with 122 thousand being 500 today. Also, by 31 December 2007, 98% of land-book cartridges have been rewritten into a digital database, and more than 45% have been verified so far. The number of pending executive cases in the period from 1 October 2005 to 31 December 2007 decreased by 82% and remained 107 thousand 765. It is also aimed at reducing the possibility of judicial corruption The amendments to the Law on Courts of February 2007 are prescribed for all judges, and the amendments to the Law on the State's Attorney's Office for all state attorneys' responsibilities to report the property. With judicial reform in the fight against corruption, there is also little importance in the administration's reform. The adoption of a new Law on Administrative Procedure as well as the Law on Administrative Disputes will certainly contribute to reducing the risk of possible corrupt behaviour in public administration. And finally let me say that given that political and economic reforms, among other things, strengthen the legislative and institutional framework in the prevention and repression of corruption, I want to highlight one great result and recognition to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the reforms it implements. Croatia was awarded a prize for the most successful European reformer in 2007 at the New York Stock Exchange on 4 June. Besides being the most successful reformer in Europe, Croatia is the second most successful reformer in the world. For these reasons, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the adoption of a anti-corruption strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10869	Thank you. At 16,34, it was time to report for a 10 minute debate on this agenda point. The HDSSSB representative club, Mr. Representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10870	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow MPs and MPs, State Secretary. Well, I was actually thinking about what to say about this strategy to combat corruption. Corruption is absolutely certain and I think we will all agree here in this assembly a burning problem in this country. And judicial reform. You know what surprises me? We have a third national strategy. Right? The third seems to me to be a national strategy to combat corruption. We can't exactly boast that we're satisfied with the anti-corruption measures institutionally implemented so far, but I'm extremely surprised that I don't see the Minister of Justice here. So is she not interested in solving the burning problem of the Croatian state? According to the anti-corruption strategy, which is said here for this speaker, it is one of the basic preconditions for ending negotiations, i.e. for Chapter 23 of the judiciary and fundamental rights. So doesn't it matter to us what kind of strategy we're going to bring? It would be very good to say with this strategy and action plan. It would probably be an annual action plan, given that this strategy is also foreseen to revise the action plan each year. I assume that the action plan will detect the burning corruption and prevention and those who may be in progress suspiciously, doubtful and that at the end of the year it will be analysed let's see what we've done, have we determined who the responsible persons are, have we determined what damage has been done or what damage we've prevented from doing? So the action plan, let's say I personally miss it. So until 31.12.2008. So it's not just the Justice Minister, but the problems in the judiciary have grown, so that's what everyone's talking about. I wonder why she's not here today. Why isn't there a state's attorney in chief? He's also this institutional lever. The same should be heard by representatives in this House, the conclusions of some kind, remarks, proposals if we are not already satisfied with the fight against corruption. Where's the Director of Uskok? Well then there is also a minister of police in his jurisdiction, and within his jurisdiction in one serious and large part should actually be involved in these anti-corruption measures. Or I think it's the Money Laundering Office. Therefore, respecting indeed those of you who are sitting there, however, I expected that indeed the first leaders of the ministries, the main people of the institutions who are just in charge of anti-corruption measures and this strategy even apostrophesed as such will sit here, listen to our remarks, suggestions, and even say something, comment if you want to comment on our account, but they are not here today and I don't think that's good. Otherwise, as far as this strategy is concerned, that is, the proposal for a strategy to combat corruption says that a certain number of corruption cases have ended in court, but that what ended in court is clearly disproportionate to public perception. I wouldn't call it public perception. I'd call it a fact. The perception of the public is something that can be like that, and it doesn't have to be like that. I'm perceiving. But the perception of the public can't be different with those great affairs we've been having in the media. Now I will not claim that someone is responsible for them, if they are not cleared up to this day. Which MPs, I was just before the current prime minister's watch asked me, not politically how he answered me, absolutely not. Don't you hear the voice of the public who says, "Come on, what about these affairs?" Is there anyone responsible here? How much damage has it done? And Liburnia is one of them. We talked about Maestro a year ago. So isn't it a fact that it's right in the Privatisation Fund when officials were sitting in extremely high positions and responsible positions of state authorities? Well, isn't it necessary to be with those people who were in the fund, who are calling themselves today, tomorrow from me, from the others to determine responsibility? Not to be called to act and to be corrupt but to remove doubt from these people. Or if they were involved in unholy acts, then criminal charges should be filed and legal system institutions will respond. And no, we have a case, says this strategy has been and has been created as a result of a revision of the previous strategy to combat corruption. Obviously, the implementation of the National Anti-corruption Strategy from 2006 to 2008 and even before 2006 was not satisfactory because, as I would normally explain, I will repeat more of these affairs again. The carlovack milk industry receives a company that has 2 employees and has a profit of 5,000 euros. For 16 and a halfm euros committed to recapitalising the carlovacka mlecara with 44m euros. And when actually the job is practically before the end, only then do the media react. Didn't you know that? In the Karlovak milk industry, he participated in the business and was involved with the Privatisation Fund. That's what you needed to know. But to this day, here's to this scandal, this financial affair. She is, I hope she's prevented, but there are people who tried to bring this job to an end and end it like this. So these people can no longer perform the most responsible duties in either the state or any unit of local or regional self-government. And we don't know who those people were involved in it. We don't have the answers to what's in this financial affair today, where the investigation came from. You may not need to know the public for the purpose of the investigation, but let the representatives of this Croatian Parliament certainly need to know about it, especially because the issue of "Brodosplita" and those seems to me 6m euros more than once opened here in the Croatian Parliament. Or maybe we as Parliamentarians don't need to know what's going on, and it's been going on for over two years. I'm going back to Maestro and the Privatisation Fund. A year ago, a spot-on suspension of the Privatisation Fund was announced. Is that off? He actually works today, works, seems to me that what we know so publicly, even here in the Croatian Parliament, is that in the Privatisation Fund there was an affair over bribes. Some of them seem to me to be 50,000 euros or so it was some kind of figure. But what matters, so we don't know why that money is the day. Was there corruption there? Is there money there for someone to be bribed for having someone to please? How much damage has been done or perhaps what damage has been prevented by this? So we don't know, there's still an ongoing investigation. And we go back to the conversion and privatisation that was set by the limitation period where the state's audit found 95% seems irregular, and even illegal procedures to 95% privatisation, and after many years of age, a period of limitation has taken place. We want to do so with this corruption or rather, more correctly, let's go to media scandals. Media scandals and I also think real scandals financially, we want to wait year after year for a statute of limitations or this Croatian Parliament and MPs have the right to know what's going on around all these scandals. I also mentioned buying a councilman for whom the contract was even signed. Did you clear that up? I don't know, let someone deny me. Has anyone responded to the media signs at least, someone from the government, because this applies to the government, to the people sitting in the government. I'm sitting in the government, and if something like that was written to me in the media, make sure you answer and file a probably private lawsuit, I don't know if it's done. Also "Sun-Hvar," isn't it one I won't call it a corruption affair, but the affair is anyway. Why? So we here in the Croatian Parliament don't even know today, or most MPs don't know, how he bought "Sun-Hvar". The town of Hvar was promised 25% plus one share, and later it turned out that Sunny Hvar was actually sold. We can't find out what the secret contracts are about. But as a representative in the Croatian Parliament, I cannot accept that the representative of the Croatian Parliament is served as a secret contract and that I as a representative in the Croatian Parliament respecting if it is necessary to keep secrets, that I cannot get, learn true, accurate and clear information. It's the same thing to you with one of those military ones, and I'm deliberately mentioning them. I'm deliberately mentioning the purchase of 39 military trucks. I mention them because they claim to be doing the same, and I'd call it a guess, but in any case a job that's illegal. That's what the president of the country says. Well, didn't anyone in the government find it necessary to tell the President of the State, Mr. President you're wrong, you're cheating on the public, or if that's not the case, then I think the government needs to be seen for that, that's not the case. And it's been four years, and we'll probably still wait a year, two or three years for some legal system institutions to determine the actual state, I think it's inadmissible. And I want to tell you about that hall again. So the Osijek Handball Hall with the blessing of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the government was ready to separate along with the city of Osijek for the Osijek Handball Hall 843 million kuna. Two days before the parliamentary elections, the Ministry of Science signed a contract to build this hall for 134 million kunas and construction and equipment. Well, now you see the difference. Is there anyone who should report to the USKOK, the state's attorney, or do they maybe not read the papers? Or maybe it's not their obligation to react and see for themselves, so wait for what's going on, so there's half a billion kuna. Was there any intention to damage the state, city budget? Or we'll wait for the citizen to act on his own and report to the state's attorney and only then will the State's Attorney's Office, the USKOK, the police and all those competent institutions react. But, then, it's time to finish. This is a very well-written strategy. She's not specific, she's me thinking declarative nature. If in the institutions of the system, if the laws are not implemented, unless this strategy is finally followed, then we need people who are able to implement what is written. The HDSB will, of course, accept and vote for this strategy, but also from the Government of the Republic of Croatia we expect that, in its ranks, clear the situation with all those officials who are in any way related to all of these affairs, so that I call on the Government of the Republic of Croatia, this commission which they have appointed to monitor corruption, to be related to officials, and not only to the Governments of the Republic of Croatia pleads, wash the balance with themselves, because this has long been passing through and determines the facts, responsibility for all these scandals, malversions and financial hidden actions that have taken place over the past year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10871	Thank you. Now we're going to an individual debate. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10872	Thank you very much. Discussing the proposal for this strategy, but also... the fight against corruption the other day and Croatian experts, as well as those who came from the European Commission, confirmed that four points are important in the fight against corruption. The first is strength, narrowing, destroying, reducing the opportunity for corruption. The second is anti-corruption awareness in society as a whole. The third is strict sanctions for those whose education is not enough and the fourth is surveillance, but not just monitoring documents that speak about the fight against corruption but overseeing the implementation of all the regulations that regulate and determine in any way certain rights of citizens, groups of citizens, entrepreneurs, businesses that were, in fact, the most common subject of corruption on the one hand or the other. And these first three points of resisting corruption contain this strategy in my court even quite clearly and extensively, but in my court it is also entirely missing this fourth point, which is supervision. I'll prove it with two or three examples. We discuss here in the Parliament every year, for example. on the report on the work of the Advocate General, the Advocate General for Gender Equality, the Advocate General for the Rights of the Children and the debate, we end up accepting these reports. However, these reports say, among other things, that some authorities, local authorities or public authorities do not give answers to those lawyers' demands that they do not want to co-operate with them and to anyone. In the accompanying statement, the government says it accepts knowledge or does not object to the report it filed. We are now every year, and at this session we will discuss and discuss the State Commission's report on public procurement control. In the past year, the commission found that the most common violations of public procurement laws are also treated by the State Geodesy Administration of Zagreb, which is a 100% cancellation of public procurement procedures. Public institution Krka National Park 83% cancellation, Ministry of Justice 60%, Croatian Road Zagreb 60%, HEP 45%, Croatian Radio Television 44, Croatian Forest 43, Rijeka-Zagreb Highway 43, Ministry of Defence 42 and Zagreb airport 40. I've only listed those who are over 40. What is the position of the Government on this report is the State Commission for Public Procurement Control, I quote: "The Government of the Republic of Croatia has no objection to the report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for 2007. a year." I do not claim that the reasons for the annulment in all these cases are corruption, but I do not believe that for any reason at all, the annulment of public procurement by the state commission was not corruption or at least suspicion of corruption. So what now? We're going to adopt a report from the commission, find out that a little condition is better than it was in the past few years and nothing to anyone. What kind of supervision of public procurement procedures is this if the state commission gives us a report showing that we have a terrible problem in the public procurement process, those institutions or bodies of the authorities that are in the front lines of the fight against corruption. And so long as the debate and the vote on such reports are not completed with the name and last name of those responsible, and by sanctioning the government, we are not honest with the claim that we are fighting corruption. Secondly, what our experts have warned about in the pursuit of the perpetrators of corruption, I will not name them not to bring them into... , but they were at the council meeting the other day, the National Council, said that those people, those citizens in Croatia who are the most involved in corruption are the greatest charities and humanitarian donors and thus gain a great reputation, especially in the local community, and thus receive political protection, and this makes it difficult for them to pursue their persecution, test actions, gathering of evidence procedures because a large part of the funds or a significant part of the funds they make available to corruption generously for humanitarian purposes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So they're criminals in one hand, but they show up at the same time as humanitarians. That is why I argue, and that is the perception of the public because there is always corruption on the other side of the state or local government that citizens often say that... Don't deal with corruption with the message because the state doesn't like competition. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And this strategy without an implementing action plan in my opinion is an attempt to fight this deadly disease with alternative medicine drugs, and in my opinion, other than the arrest and confiscation of property, which has been once again warned by people who are engaged in persecution that there are not enough powers and opportunities in Croatian laws, the confiscation of illegally acquired assets in a broader sense, is not an antibiotic of broad range of action. My fourth objection relates to the fact that this strategy does not have indicators of measurement of implementation. When I asked the Government's representative at the National Council if there would be and why they were gone, I received the answer that the best indicators are measuring the implementation of the Ministers' Strategy, one point of implementation. Then neither Parliament nor the National Council nor the USKOK are required, as ministers will measure their own measures whether they have implemented a strategy adopted by the parliament. And that's why after a year there will be a political debate here again on whether or not we have implemented the measures of the strategy, because there are simply no practical indicators to measure. The strategy has yet another problem, doubting whether the National Council will survive or not. The National Council for the fight against corruption was founded on the basis of a National Programme that ceases to apply when Parliament adopts this strategy. I've been confirmed by a representative of the government. If the National Council Act ceases to apply on Friday, if we vote on it on Friday, there is no more legal basis for the existence of the National Council, I insisted that the Government, in point 4 of the Strategy, put forward a clearer proposal for it, describe not only the survival of the National Council but also what the State Secretary has said that the National Council is getting even wider powers than it has so far. That's not in the strategy. One sentence in which the National Council is found to exist is not enough element for the Parliament's decision to extend powers. Finally, businessmen who point to corruption and individuals who have dared and dared to enter the fight must be me and those who, from a dead point of sleep, will start an economic association, especially the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, because there is also too much false solidarity between them, and so long as those who are most often exposed to rackets and corruption, and this is indeed because the businessmen themselves do not decide to report attempts to blackmail or corrupt actions, we will really have a hard time eradicating the part of corruption where from one side the economy and the future of Croatia, and on the other hand the states and its bodies and individuals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10873	Thank you, Your Honor. We have one reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10874	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament. Well, you are one of the most active members of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the corruption prevention programme and your kind of fear for the future of this council is justified only if there are people in this House who believe that the National Council should not control the implementation of the future strategy and action plan. However, it would be tragic because you were present when the European Commission came here to oversee the implementation of the anti-corruption programme and there was no representative of the ruling coalition at that session of the National Council. I think it was one message that certainly didn't echo well but actually says how important this National Council is and I really doubt that anyone would dare question its existence.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10875	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica of my colleague, Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10876	I am more pessimistic than you, or perhaps I can see the black crows even where the celebrations sing. But I am convinced that if the text of the strategy remains what it is about any change to the Parliament's decision to set up a national council or to adopt the new structure of the National Council as it is now, it will not remain the same, that you will not be the president of that National Council. Then be sure. And that the powers will not be extended, and that no session will be any more public. That is why I appeal to the fact that we cannot adopt this strategy for as long as the Government clearly does not, in the very text of the strategy, because we as the National Council, i.e. You know we can't even stand the amendments to, we're not even the parent body. We are only in charge of implementing a strategy that will be implemented on the basis of an operational programme, a plan that will be adopted by the Government as far as we have heard. If you agree with me? So we're in a rather insinuating situation, and that's why I'm warning you about it. I wish you were right, not me.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10877	Thank you very much. Next is the debate of distinguished counterparts Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10878	So I'm going to start at the beginning with that, I think he was right to be a colleague of Šišljagic when he said that here today, in this debate on the anti-corruption strategy, some more people still had to sit. So the chief of USKOK, the state's attorney. Certainly, if we wanted to open a serious debate on the fight against corruption, I think that all these people were supposed to be here today and discuss some things with us. Cross arguments. We may even present some of our experiences so that we can see how we can find good solutions for all of this together. So their absence here today might actually testify that we're not ready to take ourselves very seriously into battle with corruption. I think, unfortunately, the whole system is sending one message to people who are not good and therefore I agree with all those who have said that this strategy as well as all the laws that will come out of this strategy will, as many so far, remain just a dead letter on paper. One of such good, noble intentions. But basically none of this is going to happen in our lives or change primarily because the system has no will and is not set up so that it really counts on corruption. The system sends the wrong message to people, and in the end it was said by the chief of USKOK himself at this session of the National Committee when he claimed that people who report corruption are actually people who are bad at it. People who are at a loss. People who at some point themselves become a problem in the middle because they've shown someone corruption. So the system instead of protecting these people he leaves those people in the deleted space. As long as it happens in our practice, we can't expect anyone to report it. We can't expect people to report corruption if after they enter the USCOCK rooms they file a report, they say some knowledge, someone finds out every time that I say it in public, rattling them out. Those against whom the application was filed, against whom the person said something within five minutes, find out who he was, what he said, what was placed on them. After that, those people can only expect to be met at the door by the beatings. I can pray to God that they're lucky enough to pass only with injuries not to end up in one of our cemeteries. These people are out of a job, and if they don't lose their jobs, then they're bullied in that workplace. Their lives literally turn into hell. Why? Just because the system won't take protection. The system leaves them in deleted space. What kind of message is that to people? Shut up, put up with it. Look around you what's going on. Don't report it because you only have a chance of putting your own head on a log. For who? For a system that doesn't want to move. It's not working. A few days ago, you had a story about a cop who was suspended because he was supposed to be late for work so he had traffic violations, some stuff like that. But I'm curious about when he'll be suspended and when someone in the system will be out of work who gives up information from that system? When will such people be exposed and removed from the system? Until this is resolved, we have no right to invite citizens to show corruption from here. We have no right. Because we have no right to put anyone's life on the line in this country. Unfortunately, let's put it on. However you turn around, look at anyone who's been dependant or in any way cooperated with them, not one man's identity remains protected. Everyone's been broken in sooner or later. Until that practice is resolved, none of our fight against corruption. Unfortunately, small fish have fallen in corruption so far. Some people fell at the bottom of that whole pyramid. They're somewhere on the edges of an octopus. As soon as the investigation started to come to the very top, that head we have here the opportunity to listen to from the highest people in this country, software, hardware and other things, nothing happened. As soon as the investigation comes to a close to the top of the head that's come up with all this, and it's all co-ordinated together then or the investigation is obstructing, the investigation stops and nothing happens. So that's a message to our people. This is where my colleagues talked about numerous public affairs. They're never closed. One way or another. So what's expected of the State's Attorney's Office, the BUSCOCK of all people who decide at some point to investigate and to say that here or there's a crime, so we're going to file criminal charges or not, the affairs remain open. And nothing's happening. Except the ones who got their finger on someone get hurt. So, what the Chief of Uskok here said was simply something that is our daily life, and we know it, that's a fact, but when the Chief of Uskok tells you that those who report to corruption are actually the ones who are after them, it's a very bad message to the citizens. The fact is also that the system shows that it does not want to fight corruption itself, right here between us, we have the Commission's conflict of interest for a year, we don't have the Commission's conflict of interest, it doesn't work. Why? Because the ruling structure has tried hard to change the law and remove the opposition leader, so the opposition's representative from the top post of the Commission's conflict of interest. Under the excuse that the opposition is politicizing that body, and then this same politicisation here in this same strategy appears as something that is a fact, so that commission has done a certain job in accordance with the law, so for a year without that body, we let it be done neatly in this country, and that is also an indication that we do not have the will to fight corruption and I think that perhaps colleague Lesar is closer to the truth and that there is a very great danger that this national committee is being eliminated in some way because, if we see what happened to the Committee of Conflict of Interest, I think we can also expect that it will happen soon with the National Committee, but we will see whether the ruling structure will also be put into it. One of the major problems in Croatia is political corruption. For years we have watched people vote for certain parties, for their councilors, representatives of local self-government, and then all of this with some weird political agreements, trades, mixed-up purchases and in fact no more authorities at local level have been held at all, therefore the will of voters in local elections. Now, how will political corruption be fought by those who support this political corruption earnestly? To fight corruption of people who come, who write an agreement, says on the realisation of economic and political interests for one city, the all-inclusive secretary-in-chief of the strongest party and the leading parties ruling in this country, Mr Jarnjak, who here is neatly offering certain projects that will be funded by the Government of the Republic of Croatia if the government is in the hands of HDZ. That's what my colleague Ronko was saying here today. Where HDZ is at local level in power, help can be provided. And then he trades with people. Of course, he trades with councilmen because he's trying to tell them that we'll be much better if you're with HDZ because we can secure money for certain projects on local self-government, and that's how you'll be successful local leaders. It's political corruption. And I ask, how can those who participate in it fight against her? Not at all. So the authorities collapsed or they mixed up the cards against the will of voters in many cities in Croatia, so I had documents and arguments for one city here, but this happened also in Karlovac, the other day in Varazdin County and in many other areas. And in the end, Croatia unfortunately works, Croatia's government works every time it starts when we're bit of a toe-beater from Europe, so we're like that. and our neighbours of the Austrians also threw their fingers around a while ago and said that their economies are going very badly here, so the racketors have to give them money and work, and they better get jobs and have economic interest in Croatia in very difficult conditions. So, gentlemen, let's not always give us lessons from Europe, I think Croatia is our country in which we have to, it's primarily our interest to be a country that is well-organised, in which regulations are respected, laws in which people are protected and in which there is no corruption. We mustn't happen to, for example. One doctor is detained for corruption, and then surgery is done by a doctor who is twice as corrupt as this first one.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10879	Thank you very much. We have the first application to correct the incorrect allegations, colleague Borislav Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10880	Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Opačić said incorrectly to me that when she said that a police officer was suspended for reporting. There's another side that says it's not because of it, but because of the violations of the active obligations that he didn't commit not to list now all the details that you're familiar with, which is why he went against him. So it's just a question of how we want to look at it and how we interpret the truth, is it, one way or another. On the other hand, you also said that nothing is done against those who report corruption, that nothing is actually being carried out. I'd say it's not the same thing. So it's being executed and corruption is being reported. And if you're already talking about how we should all report corruption, I'm asking you, why didn't you personally report the time of privatisation of Dubrovnik hotels?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10881	Thank you very much. We have a report of replica, distinguished representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10882	Well, thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mrs Opačić, it is interesting how you pointed out in your presentation when it comes to the political corruption of a county in which you think HDZ is in power and has taken a bite into political corruption. I will give you an example where the SDP is in power, and this is Sisak-Moslavina County, DC Council in the Sisak-Moslavina County Assembly on December 24th last year, with its arrival it allowed quorum, and thus budgeting. Imagine, just 2 months later, the same council is employed by the development agency Simora, the development agency of Sisak-Moslavina County without competition, without any procedures under the assumption that the director has the right to hire, as Mayor Lovric said, the one he chooses. Here, that really meant it was an accident. When you talk about political corruption, do it in your ranks, and do not refer others to it. That's one example. Another example of political corruption, the County Road Administration, where the man ended up even in a court that was not accepted by a Croatian defender, but was therefore accepted by the wife of a councilman who gave the same support. So when we talk about corruption, let's go first, let's clean up in our ranks, let's not just have a measure for others. Clean up such phenomena in your ranks, and then talk about corruption later.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10883	Replication response, colleague Opacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10884	Now, my colleague, Roksandić, the only thing I can answer for you is that when I spoke about this political corruption, I had paper in my hands, so the evidence signed by your member and secretary of the party, Col. Jarnjak, who therefore offered four or five projects neatly here to form the city government in Sinj, headed by HDZ. And as for this hiring of party people, you're the masters of it. Well, I don't think there's anyone in the state administration in the last four or five years who's hired without having a HDZ party card. So please just don't hire party activists.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10885	Let's move on. Next comes the debate of distinguished counterpart Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10886	Here's a colleague and a colleague, allow me a few more words individually, in an individual discussion. What I want to stress is that the fight against corruption is not only a struggle for the security of citizens but a struggle for general prosperity. If we are successfully fighting corruption, then we are fighting for work and for leverage, and we are fighting for mugging and robbing other people's work. According to corruption, the SDP really leads a zero tolerance policy, and when we talk about corruption, every single violation must suffer rigorous legal consequences, and when it comes to politics, it means a dishonest departure from the political scene for all time. Unfortunately, in our society, it is kind of a common and accepted phenomenon of jumping stairs to make it easier to achieve the goal. If a person does not reach out for a relationship in everyday life to get to a doctor before, he is considered an honest fool. Such an honest fool is useful to society, but she herself will never succeed in life. And so Mr. Goran Strok's statement mentioned here today in a negative context is exactly the opposite of that. Mr Struk's statement at the National Council for Combating Corruption has shown that will and determination can be opposed to local powers and corrupt civil servants who use holes in the law, who use slowness in decision-making to achieve property benefits. Only courageous and determined people can change the world around them and help the world. And what was said at that National Council session? Simple truth. That truth doesn't need a strategy, it doesn't need an action plan. It is said that local and construction permits should be issued within the legal time limit, public officials should be quality supervised and motivated for more efficient work. In this way, both laws and regulations would leave less room for different individual interpretations and corruption would be less. I believe that this is the most important role of the Justice Department and other ministries because when it comes to entrepreneurs, they cannot endure so much delay in fulfilling the obligations they require of them to be able to fulfill the jobs that depend on feeding the whole series of families. I have here an interesting text that appeared in the magazine "Freedom", Sušak, February 14, 1883. Ante Starcevic comments on the Austrian state council's decision to build a railway in Galicia. The government entrusted the construction of the railway only to one entrepreneur, so Starcevic concludes: The case in its nature falls under the notion of bribery, it is not other than for public officials selling general breakthroughs for the benefit of the individual. For Starčević, it is the same if someone buys an unfair conviction or a job with an disproportionate gain, here and there suffers justice, better said people, evil, bribery, and primate bribe lies in the evil of selfishness. That's why they've been with individuals since when and when they're human. But in public areas, they are in the extent that the state's rule of law or obsession is based. So I repeat what I said, there is no corruption without power. The most responsible for fighting corruption will always be power. We opposition representatives in this assembly will do our best to resolve organised crime and corruption in the Republic of Croatia through national consensus, but at the beginning and finally responsibility lies on the ruling coalition. And here's another example. Let's get the highways. Today, the deadlines and construction of highways are twice as long as in Europe. The built mileage is two times smaller, and the price per km is two times higher. The cost of construction per km has risen from 4m euros to 8m euros, although the prices of materials and work have increased 15%. Three big players appear in all competitions. Competitions are very interesting, but there is no political will to ask ourselves where is the difference between 4m and 8m euros. Now, this is a question that could, for example, be launched by the National Council for Combating Corruption if it has greater powers, and I hope that the Ministry of Justice will fulfil its promise at the National Council meeting on the fight against corruption, where they stressed that it will indeed get the opportunities both administratively and professionally to meet the obligations to monitor the implementation of the National Strategy and the Action Plan against Corruption in the coming period.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10887	Thank you very much. We have three reports of correction of the quote. First of all, dear colleague Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10888	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I would correct the inaccuracies of my colleagues, Jovanovic, where he claimed that they had zero tolerance for corruption in the party. Let me remind you. According to your party colleagues, who ended up as mayor of Virovitica with the rightful judgments for bribery for passing a driving exam or perhaps in the cases of Mr. Marinovic and his lady who was the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10889	Thank you very much. Further to correcting the incorrect allegations, an esteemed colleague, Anton Mance, appeared.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10890	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I would like to correct Mr. Jovanovic's false allegations of zero corruption tolerance. Mr Jovanovic had opportunities and concerns to do so and to start first in his ranks. As you perform and act, I will show you, you see this picture here in the "New List" of 30.4. when they are among these workers, you see they go before my headship, I am the mayor of Vrbovska, among them are members of your party as well as members of the HNS party. In Rijeka, a lot of companies went down, but no one came before the headship. You know, as far as these roads are concerned, too. So why am I telling you this? It was in 2001 for you when it was your authority, when you sold the Wooden Industry of Vrbovska without asking any local community about who buys it, and you know what turns out to be my fault, that those 500 people came to my door upstairs, though it is known what my obligation is by law and what I can do. And today I'm the only one who has to take care of those 250 people who have lost their jobs and where it's being directed by a party, you see among those workers were your members, and they didn't stop in traffic or in the wood industry when it was being sold and when those actions were happening. And yet I'm going to tell you about employment on another occasion, and I'm going to give you the exact names and last names.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10891	For the violation of the Rules of Procedure, a respected colleague, Jovanovic, appeared.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10892	Mr Vice-President, infringement of Rule 209(2) of Article 209(2) of the Rules of Procedure My colleague had a discussion, he did nothing to correct any of the allegations that I said, and if he had been correct, he could have raised the line, and I would have answered all of this that he was now talking about completely unnecessaryly.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10893	Thank you very much. I also ask, if it is corrected to say it, I am correcting it, and we also have opportunities for discussion and replicas, as did Honorable colleague Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10894	I'll do the replica, so it doesn't turn out to be nothing to answer. Of course I agree with everything Mr. Strok has said, I think I agree absolutely the same, because corruption is indirectly encouraged by those who agree to it and who are going along a line of less resistance. And that's right. However, and it is nice to hear today Mr. Strok calling on his colleagues to report corrupt actions, but I would remind him and his colleagues of an event from February 2001 when it began to talk about the sale of "Excelsior" in Dubrovnik and when the prominent group "Sheraton" offered him 31 million then German marks, but then Racan's government and its vice president and capital of privatisation, Slavko Linic, decided to sell it to the entrepreneur Štrok for just one million German marks. The media’s enquiries at the time responded with shame and gave some of their bills and explained some of the country’s profits and benefits for that one million. But I can't understand it until today, nor do I understand where the benefit was for the state. Thank you very much. Here you can answer it, because it's a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10895	Thank you very much. Replication response, colleague Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10896	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'd be happy to answer that. In this case, a fellow dear was established an investigative committee, all documents were sent to the State's attorney's office and no irregularities were found. I respect the rule of law and respect that decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10897	Thank you. I'm moving on with the debate. Dear colleague Marija Pejcinović Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10898	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, and Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here is the debate so far, it has not been an accident that we started this session of the Croatian Parliament by discussing an important topic. All we've heard is that Croatia, that all of us here share the same attitude, which is that we would like to see Croatia become a society of zero tolerance, but in all likelihood, we are still not there and it serves this strategy among other things to make it easier for us to come to this end. However, there were a lot of allegations about the government's work on the whole anti-corruption programme and the issues were going in the direction, i.e. doubts were going in the direction of whether any result had actually been shown so far. So I think that some of the data that is here and written here in this document that some have already mentioned, I will repeat it, because it seems important to me, has shown that if we start from this assessment of corruption perception given by the Transparency International Index for 2007, this index is 4.1, and as we've heard above 3 counts that this is already in positive trend, it shows that it has been done, and among other things it shows a trend, so what we can see in the last year and a half, that unlike what our colleagues have called, so previously captured perpetrators of corruption, which can generally be called petty corruption, so in the last year, a year and a half, it is seen that this trend, that there is an increasing number of therefore, application for criminal acts of corruption at the middle and high level. I think these two indicators show that there really is a shift, that this shift is already visible. But why is he gone? I believe that we all, just as normal for many other things would want everything right now and right now. However, in a business like this ahead of us, the fight against corruption cannot all be now and cannot be immediately regretted. I would be the first to advocate that we actually claim that tomorrow or next year when we talk about it, we should say that Croatia is a zero tolerance country. Why is that? So that's because corruption in us, as in other countries, is specific and historical, both economic and political, and if you want a legal phenomenon, it hasn't been created since yesterday and it can't even be eradicated overnight. I don't think this is the place to discuss how it happened, how we came to it, how it's actually been in the people for a long time actually lived that small corruption is acceptable, and we're going to fight only big ones, so we also sometimes have to say, 'let's see what really big fish you've caught, so it's going to be an indicator that you're really fighting corruption. I think that such a division should not have, that corruption is corruption and that what is certainly important and very prominent in this document, that we should fight corruption as such and that it is actually that perception of people, which is corruption, which is so-called. Small and perhaps acceptable corruption, which is not, should be changed. So, personally, I think it's extremely important to work precisely on this element, so that this perception in public also changes and that we actually become in, not only mentality, but also in the behaviour of a country that tolerates zero corruption. I think we've got a quality document that talks about principles and goals, some of which have also made comments here, but I think we need to know why and how and what spirit we're doing a document called the strategy. It must be general, so it initially gave those basic settings that should be maintained to each implementation, later analysed those areas that are perceived, and which are indeed recognised as particularly sensitive areas in which specific measures should be led individually against corruption, thus preventing conflicts of interest, financing of political parties, public procurement, etc. I don't want to pick it up. So it certainly matters that these health care, schooling, science, etc. is set aside here. that these areas are isolated which are truly perceived by ordinary citizens as areas where corruption occurs. I think there's a very good piece of work here to see that there's been an analysis of where we are right now, which has won the work of anti-corruption and what needs to be done in the future, so I'm really surprised at those who talked about not seeing what's going to happen out of this. Reading this document to me was quite clear what would be found in the action plan or the implementation plan that the Government would have because it had already been indicated and if it concerns those legislative changes that are expected in terms of strengthening institutions, and I think it was particularly here, especially in this document that two areas were indicated. So, in the legislation we have almost finished this architecture, we have closed, there are a series of laws, conventions that we have and are well set up, here and there as in some laws, but what is crucial to further establishing institutional mechanisms for implementation, there is also a well-designed analysis where such institutions need to be established, that, therefore, I find it particularly important that this strategic unit in the Ministry of Justice that is coordinated by all other bodies of the state administration, but we also support what is seen from this analysis, so that when it comes to the police that even lower levels should certainly be done to ensure that there are also lower levels, so that they have structural units that will deal with the fight against corruption and whose day job it is actually going to be, and that they can actually process what is found, or where there are suspected corruption. I'd say this document speaks of two kinds of measures. On the one hand, it talks about preventive measures, so measures to reduce the possibility of corruption. I think that many of the laws that we've been making here in the second context are talking about, I'm only going to mention maybe a law on public procurement, but also a series of other laws, so a whole set of laws regarding judicial reform, is just going to reduce the possibility of corruption happening at all. But another part that seems to me no one has mentioned so far, and I would personally say that it seems very important to me precisely in that context where corruption came from. So, we need to work on education, whether it's about public opinion, but I would also say we should start from little feet, we should start here it's said here that both in preschool and in school will work to start with all of us, so starting with the youngest, creating this impression that corruption is an act that is socially absolutely unacceptable. It's the only way we're gonna get to a society that's going to have zero tolerance for corruption. The second part of the measure is certainly what we perceive more, if you read the newspaper, here are some today and talked about it and quoted it. So most often, in public, as evidence of the work on corruption or the existence of corruption, talk about how many people were arrested or accused of being engaged in corrupt activities. It's certainly important, it's the same kind of prevention. So to explore, process and punish, and finally what this strategy brings is certainly taken away by corruption acquired property, I think it is extremely important and that this is also very preventive for those who may have moral doubts whether it is good or not if they know that it will end in the end, so these measures that are certainly other natures can act preventively. Here, I'd go towards the end since that light's already on. It is a document that certainly a couple of exellances belong in those areas that will surely lead Croatia towards a society where citizens will feel better, which will be easier to reach in health care services needed in public administration, etc., but what should be considered here and here is that this is a horizontal task in the process of joining the European Union, which is also mentioned in this context, and I think that through this prism as well as for this benefit to all our citizens this strategy should certainly be supported and therefore encourage the Government to draw up action plans at an annual level certainly as soon as possible into the implementation of the strategy that we are talking about here. And here's the end of what, and at the end of this document, which also seemed important to me, and we didn't talk so often about it, I think we should involve a lot more institutions in the implementation of this, and a lot more institutions, and actually all of us, we all need to get involved in this so that it really is effective until the end. There are a number of institutions, they are numerous, so a growing number of institutions are networked, but I think only when we include all the bodies of the state administration and in the extreme line of all citizens in this process can we expect the result that Croatia's zero tolerance country of corruption will be a reality in some years ahead of us. For all these reasons, I support this strategy, and here I hope that at the next time we discuss it, we will have even more results than is visible now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10899	Thank you very much. We have an application for a replica, a distinguished colleague of Mirela Holly's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10900	Thank you, Vice President. So I would like to agree with most of what the distinguished colleague said, but I would like to remind you that progress has not been made in all areas, nor with all areas we can be quite equally satisfied. In this regard, I would like to remind myself of a recent discussion of the report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information mentioned several times in this assembly today as one of the important segments in this particular area. In fact, the debate, and only the report, has shown that the number is constantly falling, in principle, of the right to access information, which indicates that it actually decreases from year to year in some way the transparency of the work of the public authority in a way that citizens are becoming more and more difficult to get information. Given that this is a very important segment in the fight against corruption and that, without the principle of transparency of the work of the public government, it is not possible to have an effective fight against corruption, I think that all of us here in the Parliament and outside the Parliament in the executive power should fight as hard as possible to respect this law with dignity.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10901	Thank you very much. Replica response, distinguished colleague Pejcinović Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10902	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here I have not claimed that in all areas we have achieved great results, but I have said that the results are visible, that in some segments they will only become visible because of the nature of the measures taken, and as far as informing the public and including me, I haven't had time to mention everything that is mentioned in the strategy. I think the public is informed, therefore, that through both the websites and through various other activities the public is involved in these affairs, and certainly I think it is extremely important and it is here in this strategy listed, I did not have the opportunity to say that more and more includes civil society in the implementation of this strategy. I think it goes to that goal that, in fact, what the objective and the circle of citizens include, and the institution is involved in the implementation of this strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10903	Thank you very much. The debate was further attended by a respected colleague, Andrija Hebrang, of course. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10904	Thank you very much. Honored Mr. Vice President, the subject of corruption here and this time is causing but all happiness is becoming less and less inter-party and more objective debates. And I don't think corruption should be about partying because those who fish the whitest fish change their shirt after every election anyway. So we here should achieve a consensus and see that it is at a high level and that these little sparks are more a reflection of temperament than the very essence of things because those who do not have time from corruption to wait for 4 years to come to power again. They're reassemblying right now. Of course, most of them. Honoring exceptions. They need to be cleaned out of their own ranks. But before us is the National Anti-Corruption Programme, which I believe will be supported because of all the parties because there must be a new step in, on the hard way of cleaning up this biggest evil that was hard to clean up and countries that had no war, countries that had not had a communist system recently 18 years ago, countries that were developing much more normal than Croatia, and today we have affairs in the countries of the European Union worth billions and more in just one company that was paying its clients to buy its products with so much money. So we're not the only ones with that problem. Are we going well? I think we're going because really by 2000, by the end of the war in 1998, we were fighting corruption in a different way. It was there as you remember the resignations and everything to eradicate this evil, but in the war no one succeeded in rooting out corruption. And I agree that the real fight against corruption began after the end of the war and that it gave good results. If we had passed tens and dozens of laws, we had established institutions, and thanks to that, with a score of 2.7 per Transparency International in 10 years, we came to a score of 4.1. It's a nice envious leap. As for the place we're taking, it doesn't look great right now. It is the 70th place, but it should be known that a much larger number of countries are involved in those 10 years. So 10 years ago, only a hundred countries were evaluated and today 160 countries are estimated, so that 70th place means somewhere a little above or a little bit better than some golden environment, and I believe we'll move faster towards the top. What's corruption? When we look at Transparency International data, then we can actually see that the perception of corruption is very vague. In the first place by corruption, therefore, those who are in a position to conduct it are what surprised me to be able to hire. So not public procurement, so not bribery, but the possibility of hiring friends, relatives, probably party colleagues. As many as 85% of the subjects hit it first. In second place, the functions of different officials are additionally paid. So we're still far from what we normally mean by corruption. On the third, giving a favor. Me to you, you to me. And only in fourth place or 72% of corruption respondents consider setting up jobs. So here we are on public procurement, here we are on all other forms of contract and so on. And then there's taking little gifts and receiving money for a favor and so on. So corruption is something quite undefined and all of this together represents a huge evil. I even believe in perception that lower-ranked weight deeds are actually underrated in public opinion. But corruption will be spoken of by many. I would still focus on health care because we share an infamous second and third place with the judiciary and local administration but we are moving here somewhere in, on the second or third position by the perception of corruption in health. There are three forms of corruption immediately in health care. One of the most talked about is corruption in relation to a doctor patient or so on. Blue envelopes. I also believe that we have evidence that this perception is overrated and that it actually draws some attention to the public and therefore effective measures from those real corruption affairs and areas that I will talk about a little later. So what do I consider it to be? In our mandate, we and the SDP conducted objective surveys in our mandate. I'm talking about those polls that were made according to the statistical skills rules on, with patients who passed some service at the hospital. 99% of patients responded anonymously that they were not forced to do anything for the favor they received. About 1 to 1.2% responded that it gave some form of gift or that it was forced to give it. So this should still be treated as a serious problem and work on it, but I'm afraid underneath that percentage won't get far. Why? The waiting lists we made visible on the Internet are very variable. Because I, as a doctor, can take that 161 right away and write that he's gotten worse, that it's an emergency and I'll take it right away in five minutes. No one can tell me it wasn't an emergency. Number of beds. We have the number of beds at 4 acute beds per 1,000 inhabitants. It's somewhere in the middle of the European average. So by increasing capacity, there would be no significant improvement. Perhaps what they say should make a list of doctors who are subject to corruption. That's right. We know who they are and we can immediately report them to the relevant services and then let them take action to expose them. They don't have many, but they represent a weed in the profession of a doctor. But another form of health corruption is much more important and much more important, which is corruption in supply. We need to know that in Croatia we get medicines, consumable medical materials and equipment worth 7 and a half billion kuna per year. I do not know the area, sector or part of the state activity in which it is supplied for a greater sum. Seven to seven-and-a-half billion kuna purchases a year scattered on the ground from the largest institutions to the smallest institutions to the state administration open up huge potential for corruption, and that is why we often pay 50 percent more in the hospital than in retail. This form of corruption needs to be contained. There needs to be severe controls and this year's report of the State Public Procurement Commission shows that of all the entities in whose competitions are placed the complaint of the health care institution participate with as much as 10%, which is very much. The third form of corruption, so what drug could be made there? It's a strict rule. Exclusion of any subjective assessment, certainly strict controls or centralised acquisitions. When I say centralised procurement, I mean centralizing control. It can't happen that one of those same devices in one county hospital costs 100,000 euros more than the other. This should be the centralised record, and when such deviations are seen, it should immediately be traced to those who have raised such prices, and the biggest difference in price for one device last year, one single device was as much as 180,000 euros within 3 months. The same guy's device, just sold to another facility. Is that corruption? It's probably a big one, too. The third form of health corruption is pharmaceutical corruption. Pharmaceuticals bribe us doctors to prescribe a drug that is not as useful for patients as it seems. The pharmaceutical industry goes after profit and uses different methods. We doctors are a dam that has to stop it, we're people of blood and meat, we like to go to a congress in South America, and that's costing prescribed medications. Therefore, the most common diagnosis in America of all diseases is excessive treatment and excessive therapy. Which means that corruption that eats and bites the system in which doctors are unfortunately between the interests of various companies and the interests of patients has been subdued in diagnostics and treatment. There, of course, are the media that then portray one case on the front page as a tragic case that the state does not care about. The other day we had a case of one, unfortunately a severely ill patient who needed a drug that cost $100,000, when you look at the internet clinical trials, you will see that the extension of life in this severe disease with this medicine is negligible, statistically insignificant that the side effects that it causes are huge, then you are wondering if these 100,000 dollars really should be given for this medicine or not. In order to avoid such fine subtle corruption, it is necessary, of course, to make algorithms of behavior, guidelines, diagnostic and therapeutic. But what is even more necessary is the need for healthcare institutions to open up to the public. We're still hermetically closed, a case like this I described going through with only one sign in the paper and a lot of tears, and let's not clear up what's the point of it, which is corruption by the manufacturer. I think about it, and I keep suggesting, and I believe that in the new law it will be realized that every health institution, at least the larger one has a spokeswoman who would be a constant bond between doctors and the public through the media and thus we could expose these new subtle forms of corruption. That's what health care would believe, not in the third, but in the first place. Maybe it's lucky we don't know so much about it, but it's an accident that we don't fight because of that ignorance of that evil. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10905	Thank you very much. We've got three replications. First of all, the esteemed representative of Biljana Borzana. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10906	Dear Professor Hebrang, I can agree with you that the link between corruption and the pharmaceutical industry is large, but among the citizens it is not so recognized. Namely, they don't know about such things, they don't know what's going on here, and this very bad perception of public corruption in health is primarily about these blue envelopes, and I'm just now disappointed that you said that they won't be able to do much about it and that I'm surprised when you say that, if I understand you well, you know who the doctors are corrupt and that you are for their names to be published and that they will be published. So, I'm sure you were just like me when you finished medicine, proud to be a doctor, and for such people, we must all be ashamed of ourselves, if there are so few, and the research we've done, as we said when we were in power and you, say there are very few. Then why can't that list be published and why I can't finally get rid of that thing so I can proudly claim that I'm a doctor.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10907	Thank you very much. Replication response, Dr. Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10908	Thank you very much. Well, of course we all did, or at least the vast majority in our call for ethics, morals, a desire to help. Unfortunately, some turn away because of what money has, say a pleasant smell. With us, it's about 1 to 1 and a half percent of the colleagues in these polls that the two governments made consecutively, and that 1, 1.5 percent I call the weeds in the wheat. Why don't we publish? First, we all know who it is and each of us in his hospital knows exactly, just a little bit, ask your colleagues who work in hospitals if they don't know. I know in my hospital exactly for everyone, I know in yours and you know in mine, but we can't publish a name without proof. We did one action while still Mr. Jarnjak was Minister of the Interior, so we sent no uniform to members of the internal affairs as patients to report to such doctors. The methods of proof are terribly difficult. One example. You know what that doctor did? He opened a book to a patient like that and showed it like this. Put it in there. This guy put a certain amount on him, he closed the book and put it on the side. Now, you go inside and take it as evidence. He'll say I don't know, he planted it on me. What do I mean by that example, which is a true example? The evidence is terribly difficult because it is criminally responsible for the one who gives and receives, and therefore we have no witnesses, and that is the problem with publication. But to know them, we know them and it's a public secret.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10909	Thank you very much. A prominent counterpart, Zeljko Jovanovic, also appeared after the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10910	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, I'm in almost a large part of Professor Hebrang's debate with him. However, just one part when he talks about waiting lists moved me to this replica because it is one of the few measures that has been taken in the 2006 National Programme for the Prevention of Corruption, which is concrete and which has an indicator and right now we see why the indicator is important. In 2006, therefore, all hospitals are required to report in a transparent manner on waiting lists in their departments. And what happened? In February 2007, Professor Ljubicic asked all hospitals to publish waiting lists on websites and a new strategy but also points out that we will have to increase transparency further in the coming period. However, if you go to the hospital website, then you will see that only 2 hospitals of 65 hospitals in Croatia have a list of waitings for all departments. It's Dubrovnik Hospital and Pakrac Hospital. Everything else is actually grief and grief. For example, the entire Split Clinical Hospital Center has only one patient on all its waiting lists. According to these statistics, a cardiologist from Sibenik examines two and a half patients a month. So we see one measure that is good, concrete, that allows us to track whether waiting lists suit corruption, but that measure is not being implemented, and I'm wondering who's now responsible for it?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10911	Thank you very much. Replication response, dear colleague Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10912	Thank you very much. The waiting lists in Croatia are less than in England and in England no one calls them corruption but a lack of money in the organisation of health care, we declared them corruption. I don't think that publication of the list will reduce corruption, because when a patient comes to me in the ER that I want to put right on the CT, I'm going to write that it's an emergency indication and he's going to skip all of those. So it's about my conscience, it's about the transparency of one hospital's business, and it's about the education of doctors in ethical medical principles. So I think these publishing lists should go, I'm absolutely for them, but they won't solve the problem. Which means waiting lists when you have the individual right to decide that someone skips 300 seats and immediately comes to order and that right to a doctor no one can take away. That's why I think the system is much more sensitive to the other thing, which is that we're not going public with that problem. More than a waiting list would be used by a spokesman who would occasionally explain why the waiting list for the ultrasound of the heart is so large. All people would know what that means. All those responsible would know what that means and bring countermeasures. We don't have enough cardiologists at the moment who know CT, because his salary is 7 thousand kuna and he doesn't think about going into that speciality that takes 20 years of learning. That's where we have to find trouble. This is where we have to solve our problems. That's where we have to make reforms that will allow this cardiological place to be attractive, and then when it gets its job, then it will work. The second where we have to make a big step is to computerize our hospitals. As long as we don't have a record by every doctor that's invoiced on his behalf to HZZO, what you said will happen. We in our hospital in one department did an analysis of the doctor's performance, the number of services in one month was 1:40. So one doctor made 40% more examinations and services than the other. Now that we introduce individual monitoring and public reporting once a month, I think this problem will reduce waiting lists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10913	Thank you very much. And the third replica, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10914	Dear fellow Hebrang, when we talk about corruption then we can't talk about corruption that patients who have malignant diseases and whose disease it is that, you and I can go out now and fall dead and nothing will happen to us, we won't think about it, and those who have encountered malignant disease, they know that they are mortal and that death is at their door. So when people are looking for drugs then they're looking for these drugs for themselves and 20-30% of the effectiveness for a single mother who has a small child who, when she was born, has been diagnosed with this tumor, then that 20-30% for that woman and that family means as a house and that 100,000 dollars or anything else for a country that has 18.5 billion kuna budgets for health care, it's not such a big period and that woman and family can give her hope that her life can be extended. Two months who have malignant disease, who faces death, is as big as a house, and I wouldn't mix corruption into those waters, and I don't think that they should think of it as corruption but help these people. Croatia is a social state, the Constitution says that we must provide health care to our patients so I would disagree with you that in these cases it is corruption, because it is a cry for help, and the cry for help says help me, if I do not have one, then we should all help these people. It's a nice wrestling.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10915	Thank you very much. Replication response, Agent Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10916	You have completely distorted the meaning of my sentences and words. Two months of life is infinitely much for what it's about. That's not what I'm talking about. I've been talking about medications that go on and on and on and on, and they give such side reactions that make life even harder, and they pay hundreds of thousands of dollars. In front of me, right here in front of you, one drug prescribed costs $400,000 for four months of taking. There are no pool records in the literature anywhere, so the data based on a proven procedure that even extends life for one day. That's what I'm talking about. And that's where the other countries were able to find the cure, we haven't found it yet, but we're gonna have to find it. Where there's success, there's no question of price. One drug like this makes it impossible to treat tens of others because spending $400,000 and not using it or staying for the others. So when I talk about it, I'm talking about drugs that have no proven action, and most often it's about them, because these media producers are launching dramatic stories. For those medicines that have an effect, the Ministry and the HZZO have committees and these expensive medicines are included on a special list and are available to any patient who needs them. I have one more thing to say. It's a problem that's far before known in America, for example, than in our country. The other day, I was preparing a lecture that I have these days in the Doctor's Assembly, and I first came across a reference where under the title it says, "This research is not sponsored by the pharmaceutical industry." And another where he says, "This research isn't sponsored by the equipment manufacturer." So the problem is getting into the public, breaking into the world, it must even be noted that the results are not sponsored. And tell me, how many of our clinical trials aren't sponsored by the pharmaceutical industry? Ignoring percentage.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10917	Thank you very much. It is up to the honourable representative, colleague Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10918	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I don't think there's a country in the world that's completely immune from corruption, that's rooted out corruption. Usually it's about health corruption, the police, maybe part of the clerk's apparatus. There is, however, a kind of corruption far more dangerous than this small corruption. It is corruption in politics especially in high politics or otherwise, corruption as a system of governance. In this debate, they could hear the thesis that every corruption is evil and that no distinction should be made between small and large corruption. I think the thesis is wrong, and that it is deliberately placed in public, in the debate on corruption in Croatia at all. It is certainly unacceptable that a doctor is given a blue envelope to obtain medical treatment or a hospital bed. Of course, it's unacceptable that someone on the street gives a cop 50€ for not writing him a ticket for a traffic violation. Now with this new law and the small salaries of police officers, we can only expect to increase that corruption on the road, but all this cannot be compared to corruption in politics. Now we see if it's a Croatian case. In order to eradicate corruption at all, strong, unequivocal political will is needed to fight corruption. In this sense, it is not enough to write strategies, strategies will not help. Even 50 strategies don't help as much as real political will does, does it? This morning, we could all witness the political will of the day. counterpart Vesna Pusic warned Prime Minister Sanader of a problem of obvious political corruption. What is political corruption? When you for money or for a position that politics allows, which you can give to someone you gain power over, past the will of the citizens. And counterpart Pusic warned this morning that something like this is happening in Varazdin County, buying council mandates is changing the will of the electoral body, changing the meaning of democracy. Why? That is why a political party that failed in the elections would still come to power beyond the election by a corrupt method. The worst possible form of corruption. It's far worse than a blue envelope to a doctor or 50 euros to a cop. We heard how Prime Minister Sanader responded to this warning. He laughed sweetly and he said and listen, if Cacic is a bad mayor, then the new majority of the county assembly will replace him. And how do you get a new majority in the county congregation? In the election? No, I don't. By buying council mandates. Political corruption. And while Prime Minister Sanader here in front of everyone, in the Parliament, and direct television transmissions so refers to political corruption, then we are all naive here if we believe this country will get rid of corruption before such a prime minister gets rid of it. What does this strategy say? First, she says here that this strategy goes with the action plan. Veli, this strategy, as well as an action plan with clearly defined measures, deadlines, responsible institutions, aims to improve all forms of fight against corruption. Where's the action plan? This is a general document on the basis of which a general debate on corruption can be conducted, as is the case. The lack of the government to send along this strategy and the action plan I am experiencing as insufficient will, the political will of the government to engage in the fight against corruption. If he had that political will, then he'd make an action plan and send it along with this document here. So why didn't she do it? You didn't have time to do that? Well, look, you're already one term of four, now you're half a year in the second term, it's time. You can't say there wasn't time. The only question is, do you have real political will? From the fact that you haven't made that action plan, I'm counting on you not to have that political will. You'll say so, so we sent it to the Council of Europe, to the Council of Europe, to the European Union, and you can see that we're still doing something, so we're writing strategies, so don't get us over-stopped, because we're being knocked out... corruption. [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] Well, it's the government. Here's the strategy. But that's not enough. You write here in this strategy that the implementation of this programme has resulted in a steady increase in the number of criminal proceedings for the crimes of medium and higher levels of corruption. But gentlemen of the government, and most of all? What about the highest levels of corruption? Today is the year of Maestro's action. Little jubilee. Look, there's some people under arrest, I don't know any detainees. And what about the politicians who were on the board of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, where their assistants were corrupt? That's the level I'm talking about. Until this level is touched, let's not fool ourselves and talk here about the blue envelopes of the doctor and the cops on the road. While ministers are free of it, there is no political will and you will not convince anyone that this political will exists. You're saying that experience has been gained in the implementation of the previous... show that it is necessary to strengthen the role of the National Council for the fight against corruption. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And how did you strengthen him? So you chose another person who is close to HDZ to this National Council in addition to the Croatian Journalist Society proposal. That's how you strengthened the role of the National Council. So it shows that you don't have the political will, that this national council is really the National Council for the fight against corruption, that you don't choose inside party alike close to you, that you listen to the uniform opinion of the journalist's profession. You say further that the prevention of conflicts of interest of state officials is within the authority of the Committee for Decision on the conflict of interest of state officials, and then wrongly that in May... This year, amendments and additions to the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest on the conduct of public duties in law enforcement were adopted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, it wasn't based on these changes. It was founded in 2003. But what did you change him for? You changed his composition and his president. The parliamentary majority will now choose 8 out of 11, 3 directly and 5 indirectly. So who's going to trust that commission? So how will this committee ask the prime minister for watches or for the house or anything else, when we all know the HDZ personnel policy, my God, is led by Prime Minister Sanader. Your thing, let her lead, I don't mind, but he'll approve all five of those so-called names. Independent in this commission. So how will they question him when he has appointed them there? All of this shows you gentlemen that there is no political will to fight corruption and that this action plan is one empty, one frame without content.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10919	Thank you very much. We have two, two applications for correction of an incorrect quote. First of all, dear fellow Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10920	Thank you. The Honorable Mr. Vice President is incorrect that Mr. Prosecutor has stated that he has no will to combat corruption. If you had read this strategy and the opening part, you would have seen that over the past year, the number of convictions for corruption has increased by 34%. If there wasn't a collective will for it, surely this huge percentage of those who paid for it at the top of corruption would not have paid for it. He also says there is no action plan because there is insufficient political will. Dear counterpart Stazic's strategy brings parliament and the agenda is a strategy against corruption. The action plan brings the government and the government brought it in so if you want to see it go to the website. But the agenda item is a strategy and is not the item of the agenda of the action plan. And in the end, you chose another person in the National Council instead of the Croatian News Society proposal. That's not true. The selected person is a member of the Croatian Journalist Society and she is none of our close associates but is a member of that society and I believe she will do her job well.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10921	Thank you very much. Furthermore, an esteemed colleague, Markovanovic, appeared to correct the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10922	Thank you, Mr. President. So here's colleague Stazic incorrectly claims, says two councilmen were bought by political corruption, I guess, out there in Varazdin. I think that's a guess. It's absolutely incorrect because maybe, here I can also argue, maybe people just too late realized that Cacic was just the center of corruption during your government... [[The speaker is away from the microphone, not understood.]] [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10923	We also have two applications for replication. First of all, dear colleague Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10924	Thank you very much. I will agree with you that there is really no political will for a strategy like this to be spent literally in life. And as proof of that you have well noticed we have had in the past term a commission that has taken a step further in, in some way reducing the effect of corruption in Croatia. A committee to prevent conflicts of interest that worked well. Even here, it is mentioned that some judgments have reached some conclusions and have in some way shown officials who have been in corruption. And now 6, 7 months is not named because the HDZ has not yet been able to select these 5.6 non-partisans who could participate in the commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10925	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica of fellow Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10926	My fellow Maras thank you very much for pointing out the replica to me and thus allowing me to answer you as opposed to colleagues Hebrang and Markovanovic who, under the correction of the false allegation, are actually replicating but then the man does not have the opportunity to tell them that these two councilmen have admitted that they have received the money. So they didn't come to their senses. But that's what I would have done to my colleague Markovanovic if he had dared to speak up in the first place. Like this, what if someone doesn't have the courage to use a tablet that allows them to abuse this Rules of Procedure a little bit, so corrects the wrong allegations that are actually correct. And now, colleague Maras, as far as this committee is concerned. Yeah. We don't have a commission out of choice. This government is controlled by no one in conflict of interest. No one controls her, not even the government officials. And now I'm asking you all of our public. If there is indeed political will as it is claimed, here's colleague Hebrang claims that there is so that it took them six months to name the commission and yet we don't have it. Unless that political will is looked at so that no one controls them. And I think that's exactly the political will. We can, so we'll stall it. Why? So no one can control us. That for the time being, while the commission is gone, we're doing what we want. It's the political will of this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10927	We have another application for replication. Dear colleague Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10928	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Stazic, mentioned today's question of Ms. Vesna Pusic's representative's question to Prime Minister Sanader about change, changes in Varazdin County. I'm left if I am, if I remember the two phrases correctly. One is the principle of subsidiarity, and the other is a political game. As for the political game of those who are led in such a way, it usually happens that such a goal is achieved from the off-side and that it is very well obtained and back countered and I am sure that in Varazdin County this counter will come in the next local elections so that this will be one such failed trip. As far as the principle of subsidiarity is concerned, it has become one of these minor magic sticks in removing responsibility from the top of the ruling coalition's strongest parties when it comes to obvious examples of local political corruption. Let us remember the examples of Velika Gorica and those 300 thousand, I think there were EUR, if there were kunas, correct me to a member of the HSP headship who he publicly admitted, and then there were some other cases that resulted in early elections. A lack of subsidiarity aims to ensure that the greater the number of members participates according to their ability to achieve the general objective. And he's got three extra assignments. The first is to respect the authority of everyone. I am quite certain that in applying the principle of subsidiarity they respected the authority of everyone to the other task and this would help in the event of an emergency. That part of the subsidiarity principle, in any case, did not say the prime minister and I am quite sure that he helped because it was obviously necessary for such a thing to be done here. And the third is to replace in exceptional cases. But the principle of subsidiarity as it is implemented and understood by the ruling party is not in fact the principle of combating corruption but the principle of corruption is seen in that many principles are mentioned on page 2 but the principle of subsidiarity is not mentioned, so here you can mention it in these areas that help corruption. We have obviously witnessed such practices in Croatia for the past few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10929	Thank you, Comrade Bauk. Reply to the replica of fellow Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10930	Look at my colleague, Bauk. When it comes to the Varazdin County or any other unit of local self-government where the change of government comes past the elections by buying a council mandate, then it is quite clear that it is political corruption, not the ex post mind of one or two doctors who, now realized that the party that is actually, to whom they are chosen by citizens, is not good. So you should bow down to the other side that's better. It's like that other side hasn't existed in 15 years and it's like you don't know what it's like. Well, if it's so good to them that they didn't approach it ten years ago. Why now? It's not the devil that they've gotten so much better lately. So, it's political corruption, so little kids see it. And that's why I'm talking when the prime minister here in the Parliament says the principle of subsidiarity this morning, he's piling his hands off his responsibility for the worst form of corruption in this country for political corruption, for political corruption. With such a prime minister, colleagues Bauk, colleagues and colleagues, with such a relationship to corruption, we will not get away with political corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10931	Furthermore, there is a debate next with distinguished counterpart Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10932	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Just this debate on such an important and important topic, this is the top topic of Croatia, this government, last government, and the future government is safe, regardless of the progress we make, I hope to the common forces. But the announcement that everyone is going to be reported, and there's a lot of them tonight until late at night to discuss what the public doesn't hear about what we're discussing here. Well, the public has to be aware, and the public has to give support. It's a great honor for fellow State Secretarys, but because of this topic it's important and important, not only is there a minister but half of the government to give it exactly, not because it's past the Rules of Procedure and so it's all fine, but it's precisely to give importance to this topic. And we can't argue, that's how it comes because we didn't have an actual morning this morning, so we're driving this agenda because this is an unusually important topic and we all agree on it and we don't need to convince ourselves about it. So, from the beginning, I guess we didn't go well. The latest report by the European Commission on Croatia's progress on the 51st page is generally accepted, so general corruption in politics, economics and institutional level including the judiciary as well as general tolerance and, according to small corruption, remains widespread. Corruption in Croatia has been assisted, according to the report, by lack of good governance, transparency and calculation of public administration and lack of ethical code and codes of conduct for public affairs. On page 10, although Croatia has made some progress, it is doubtless, but we are again highlighted, corruption remains widespread. There is no, or need to be further strong efforts and prevention, detection and processing of corruption. It is said that there is no indictment or conviction at the highest level, in cases of the highest level. On page 50 of this report, the total number of corrupt crimes that has been processed continues to be very limited with some exceptions in relation to... So small corruption. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then in the final discussion, the conclusion is that Croatia has made some progress, progress in certain chapters, but that judicial reform remains the biggest and significant challenge, and in its own reform of the judiciary. He continues to say what measures are lacking in transparency as the rule of law, good governance, and in its own in the judiciary. So it seems to me, given that this strategy was written that it wasn't written with some bad intentions, but that it simply didn't realize that it was the responsibility of the authorities to narrow down the area of corruption itself and that everything that was written here would be credible to bear witness to the authority itself. We're talking about political will here. It's not the will that's conjectured whether it's willful or not, but it's simply publicly shown whether it's there or not, which personnel are chosen? Therefore, in its theory of corruption, it is considered exactly how public affairs are obtained, i.e. public government employment, individual ministries, so public procurement, are the greatest possibility of corruption in these two areas. And then if you have examples, not in other areas where the government cannot intervene because of the independence of another branch of government, but only in its segment. If he refuses to accept the best and if there are arguments, if he's moving away from work without explaining some who have shown themselves best. So let's remember in 2004, Mrs. Pozaic, so she had no objection to the revision, was no longer found in the society of the suitable. Well, a lot of time has passed by that time, let's go back to now these recent times or troubles. So there have been countless examples like this lately that say that it's not exactly... So what is stated on page 3 as a general objective, affirmation of zero tolerance access to corruption is not acceptable without a major goal that should be above that of political repression of political corruption. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what can't be stimulated so much, but it's not true that it's exactly what it's all about. Here's a good and sacred example that needs to be highlighted and encouraged by the government to do so in some other areas. We have a proposal to amend the Law on Judicial Exercises. This so far has not had any regulations, so precise, so also a score, that is exactly what the European Commission has been asking us to do. But not just for the trainees, it could be a great concept as well for civil servants and tenants and for admission to the state service. Why isn't that there? Here it's not that it can't change everything and it's something that's just an impression or some kind of assessment depending on which angle it's looking from. So here's what this proposal is all about, and it's a good suggestion for other things, and most of all it's about how it's coming into the state service. But to measure this, that it can be marked in the law, here's the example that the government did in these receipts of the Law on Judicial Practices, even though we saw the last years when the twins were accepted at the expense of great and very good. So you see how this can be contained and not only on these smaller things but also on admissions in general to the public service. So, it's not just a matter of political corruption, it's the same issue of public procurement. So public procurement, we all have to be very concerned about how it goes, and in law we can't possibly get to work getting the most favourable bidder because his price was the lowest, and later as co-operatives, those who have offered a bigger, far higher price and later as co-operatives are working. And that's something that's clear to cause serious suspicion. And something very dramatic is happening in Croatia, which is where we are. That we, for a basic crime, of a Colloquially called money laundering, have no legal punishment. He issued an assessment of the constitutionality of the conclusion, as the conclusion when it was found that there was no sanctions, then the secretary signed that correction of something that did not exist in order to incorporate the sanctions. The question is what will happen if the Constitutional Court respects and assesses that it is about illegality. What will happen to all these painfully executed court proceedings to the end. And so here's my colleague Stazic already talking about the affirmation of the principle of zero tolerance access. It is also generally known not only for us, but everywhere in Europe and beyond, that societies and countries that are highly corrupt in the authorities with special energy, with special passion, are persecuting so-called. ... this little corruption to show they're not corrupt. [[You don't understand.]] Therefore, the source of this street corruption, these corrupt blue envelopes, is precisely political corruption, and if it were to be contained in these examples of transparency of entry into the state service, employment, public procurement and such control because what is only on paper and it only receives... at first glance seems to be all legal, and in fact when these things happen then you see that nothing is right, then it would be a strong message to these other corrupters to not reach for blue envelopes or to give them or to receive them. That would be the strongest message. So in this way, the proposal for a anti-corruption strategy is conceived without an accent specifically on political corruption, it seems to me that we're going to keep this corrupt octopus open, but her head is going to be completely intact.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10933	Thank you very much. Next comes the debate of the distinguished representative Branko Crljenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10934	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We are aware that corruption violates the fundamental values of the social relations of every democratic and civil society. Therefore, corruption must be seriously ethically evaluated, continued political judgment, but also socially responsible. Anyone acting in a public office shall have other than legal responsibility and responsibility for his own conscience and ethics in the performance of public affairs. The creation and promotion of political will and determination of authorities are crucial to curb corruption. Research of public opinion both domestic and foreign, reactions to the public show that citizens believe that corruption exists, that it is widespread, that it is condemned and that decisive measures are needed to combat it. The public opinion study has shown that further efforts need to be made to prevent corruption in the field of public administration, health, justice, education and the private sector. The responsible authority must plan and implement measures to prevent the prevention of corruption, but not campaignally but systematically as a permanent activity for the benefit of the social community. Only by continuous action can gradually and systematically curb corruption and at the same time reconfirm policy as a public good activity. Priority areas in the fight against corruption are to prevent conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties, to implement rules on the financing of political parties, to exercise the right to access information, to strengthen the integrity of public administration, to regulate public procurement, and to protect damages and persons who report corruption in good faith. The financing of political parties should be transparent, as unclear and inaccurate commitments in the control of political party financing can lead to corruption in politics. Public procurement is one of the most critical economic activities in view of corruption risks. The high degree of the mentioned risk is the fact that the total value of registered public procurement in 2007 which amounted to 16.15% of gross social product compared to 2006 when the share of public procurement in the gross social product was 11.77% of the value of public procurement increased by 5.38%. This increase implies economic growth and investment growth, together with an increase in competitiveness. The objectives of the single procurement system are to coordinate the implementation of procedures and the transparent allocation of public procurement and concession contracts. Equal treatment of all participants in the public procurement system, promotion of competition and sustainable economic growth. Promoting the application of the public private partnership model while at the same time providing uniform legal protection. The Republic of Croatia is obliged to provide mechanisms for compensation for people who are damaged by corruption. It is necessary to ensure the protection of people who report corruption in good faith. First knowledge of the existence of corruption, and in particular the abuse of official office or over-rule by official or responsible persons, generally have employees in state bodies, companies or other legal entities. These persons, regardless of their knowledge of loss of work or other sanctions, do not in most cases report such illegalities, although protection mechanisms are prescribed by law. In order to reduce the possibility of judicial corruption, amending the Law on Courts of February 2007, it is prescribed that all judges submit a report on their assets so that, in the event of suspected corruption in the judiciary, relevant data can be available. The amendments to the Law on the State's Attorney's Office have also introduced an obligation to submit a report on the property and to verify the security risk of employment for all state attorneys. There is an alternative way of resolving disputes and legislative and other measures have been taken to reduce the duration of court proceedings. It was continued by carrying out judicial inspections to monitor the judicial administration and increase efficiency, and the rationalisation of the network of courts was launched. The monitoring of activities in the healthcare system, during the implementation of corruption prevention activities, identified the need to amend the part of the proposed objectives in countering corruption in health care already done, as well as the activities that have yet to be done. The possibilities of healthcare corruption are based on the organisation of a health system, but also on health activities in general. In other parts of the health system, the possibilities of corruption are based on subjective decision-making, when purchasing consumer material, medicines and medical equipment, as well as on employment. The persecution of corruption, especially at the middle and high level, is not and cannot be fully successful only through the punishment of the perpetrators. It is necessary to establish and confiscate the property benefit obtained by these criminal acts through criminal proceedings. In this respect, cooperation with other state authorities, in particular those in charge of financial and tax supervision, but also the existence of appropriate legal solutions, is of particular importance in order to take away all property benefits from the corrupt person obtained by those criminal acts. Unfortunately, these legal solutions do not exist, and in most situations it is possible to confiscate only the benefit he has obtained by this criminal act for which he has been found guilty. Although there is knowledge of the possession of far greater assets of origin which is questionable. For the anti-corruption education of citizens, it is of particular importance to spread public awareness of the danger and harmfulness of corruption. The suppression of all forms of corruption behaviour should be a social action of the widest extent to which all state bodies, as well as interested organisations, economic operators, NGOs, citizens and others will be involved.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10935	Thank you very much. It's still time for the hearing. A distinguished colleague colleague, Marin Jurjevic, also called for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10936	Dear Mr. President, Madam and Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues. Here's what I'd like to begin my debate with a quote. "The laws are made for evil men to turn away from their evil deeds and delusions, and good and honest people can live peacefully and peacefully.", quote completed. It's a quote from the "Split Statute" of 1312. They're getting out of date. [[Intruder: Deprecated.]] It's not out of date, it's a general principle, and the worst thing would happen is that these evil people, unwitting people, can live peacefully and peacefully, and they say it conditionally, good people, normal people, people who want to stick to the law and live in a normal community, would not then be able to live peacefully. I am saying this because we are, say, so conditionally, in the law factory, in Parliament, in the highest legislative body, in our country, we are passing laws, and the biggest tragedy happens when there is such discrimination, such dichotomy, such dissension, the idiocy between what is written in the laws and the practice that makes fun of these laws and, in spite of the beautiful, let's say by laws that are such at all, we have a terrible practice. Practices that mock laws. It's a normal thing that every man then lives as a double person, as a homoduplex, as one that's fine and excellent in laws, and in practice everything is the opposite. And where does a man live? In law, not in books, not in parameters, he lives in practice with his own particular destiny. And let's ask ourselves, not even what Transparency International says in all this respect of theirs, otherwise I don't even like the way we're overjoyed by the index that we got there or we got there. We are between Bulgaria and Turkey, Bulgaria for the pink worse than we are, and Turkey is a little better than we are. If we are satisfied in that position between Bulgaria and Turkey, we are. Oh, my God, our mind. But I wouldn't talk about, in all respects of Transparency International, but I would talk about the perception of an ordinary citizen, the citizen who lives with his destiny, with his name and name, with his problems and his collision with reality, which is not the reality of the law, from these papers, but the reality of real life. These citizens view Croatia as a corrupt society, according to surveys conducted in Croatia, 80% of them perceived Croatia. It's a tragic fact. This is the fact that these citizens are thinking about our society as a corrupt society, as a society that is not good, which is to be changed and not bad, they haven't mentioned for anything my colleagues mentioned today several times this morning the Prime Minister's statement of the Croatian government, Mr Sanader, who is on "the current morning" referring to the principle of subsidiarity, saying that he has no idea what's going on on on on the ground, conditionally told the ground, because there is a government, so to say the law of those who are there, they don't depend in any way on the government, nor on the central government of the ruling party, and you see an example of my city, I'm saying otherwise. I have mentioned several times here famous athletes from the Split Đir list, which is a list run by SDP Split, which is a two-time party party called the Croatian party of pensioners who, after the elections, received votes from those who were political rivals to HDZ and some other parties ran quickly to impress each athletic rally, on the other hand and stole voices that were against these political options where they took those screams of votes. Now, that's what's happening with us, so it may change, but behold, the Croatian government in its sittings, that is, the Croatian government decides to put these athletes, these guys, the time guys, but fast and fast minds into the supervisory committees of which the government decides. Not Split, not Split-Dalmatia County, but the government. So, in my opinion, and here I call for an interview on Mr. Seks's Croatian Radio in office when he was President of the Parliament where I sign every word of corruption he's said, when he said that already under the current laws, according to the Penal Code, that's the one that's now fallen on fellow Dragica he's hard, he's hit her in the knee, and I think he'll... Tomorrow how difficult he is and you see in this law he also writes that he is not allowed to deal with corrupt actions, activities, or disciplines without being punished. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And Mr. Shakespeare then said that if a councilman was elected and went from one list to another political camp, and proved to him that he had crossed out of interest, out of kindness, it was corruption. I appeal to the words of the former president, today's Vice President of the Parliament, here's a top lawyer and our colleague whose intelligence and legal knowledge I have no doubt, I refer to him exactly when I talk about the government covering something that I think is a corrupt activity. A lot of people around here have mentioned a split squire. It's no secret that I've been here for a year beating up some of them about Split's smuggling. And the things I've experienced, you're witnesses. It was ideological conflicts, family conflicts, pre-familial conflicts, but it never happened to be things. And what happened and whether it's about corruption, whether it's about crime or not. And then you see you have a minister for the chairman of the board of directors, a decision is made, not to repeat the story that you well know, which is being made, the police administration of our county for an investigation that never ends... That the state's attorney's office is only raising it, so it's starting the procedure before the police department gets to the end of the investigation and it still hasn't come to the end of the investigation, but it quickly gave a press conference where they said everything was fine before the investigation ended. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The normal thing that I'm starting to suspect, but fortunately not only me, but here's a lot of people that's been going on there and the state's attorney's office has taken what's been done, and I'm not going to get into it anymore, so let's get rid of it where it's being solved within the rule of law, but the fact is that my colleagues should be torn up and insulted here in this hall to talk about such a thing as possible corruption in Split's bootleading. After that, I also went to informative, as it is called, informed conversations, and after that, private lawsuits were filed against me for disturbing the public. To know how I upset them. That's terrible. Not those who possibly have been hoarding the money, but what I have been asking as a representative in the House as a question, a question in the highest legislative body of this country. And what's that little citizen, the one not from the story, not from the books, but from life? He's talking, so when they're bothering this guy like this, what's he gonna do to me? And his wife tells him you're not crazy, so don't even think about it... Maybe something he knows, something he doesn't know. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because of all of this, my colleagues need to change our relationship with all of this, first of all, we need to open up a space for civic courage to support that courage to talk about eradicating, I don't doubt anyone here, but to eradicate it from this society, we don't go great and we can't be satisfied in the place between Bulgaria and Turkey, we can't be satisfied while 80% of the citizens individually have the perception that they live in a corrupt society, we can't be satisfied when Croatia in November of last year ordered two fire-fighting aircraft from the Canadian firm, canadera for 62 million dollars, Spain in January of the same plane for 60 million dollars, the difference of mathematics simply 2 million dollars doesn't sleep somewhere in Croatia. The first canadian arrives in 2009, in Spain, and the Italians who ordered behind us have already arrived for them. And I wonder what that is? And is it blasphemous to ask these questions here, even if it was the ministers behind these responsibilities?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10937	Thank you very much. We have one application for correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10938	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I am correcting the inaccuracies of my colleague Jurjevic that we are satisfied, I don't know if he meant who he meant, obviously both to the Croatian government and to us here who are replicating and correcting the incorrect allegations that we are satisfied with the index of perception of corruption Transparency International for the year that Croatia was assessed as 4.1, but the fact that this is the highest score Croatia has ever received since the perception of corruption was measured. Mr. Jurovic, if we were satisfied then we wouldn't be going to audit. ... Mr. Vice President, I can only finish, even though my colleague has taken up my time now, so I'm burning red, which he apologized for. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10939	Finish it, but correct Jurjevic's quote if you can.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10940	My colleague Jurjevic said we were satisfied. I answer that we are not satisfied, because if we were satisfied, we would not go to the review of the 2006-2008 National Corruption Prevention Programme and we would not bring a series of these measures that this corruption control strategy contains. This document that we are discussing today contains. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10941	Thank you very much, colleague. Next comes the debate of distinguished colleagues, Parliamentarians Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10942	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. I am personally sorry, in fact, for the debate on the strategy, about the proposal for a strategy to combat corruption here is still not a minister present. I respect, of course, that there are two, two secretary of state, but I think the subject is such that she deserves to be present just as a minister. But here we are, let's go. All public opinion research, both domestic and foreign, reactions to the public show that citizens believe that corruption exists, is widespread. That it is condemned and that decisive measures are needed to combat it. International comparisons and economic assessment of the risk of investment clearly indicate that corruption is a serious threat to Croatian economic development as well as to the continued democratisation of society. Since it has in various areas of life corruption affects a large number of different social groups. It does not appear at the level of the incident but is of systematic importance. What I have just said is actually a quote from the National Programme for the Prevention of Corruption, which this Parliament has brought for the period 2006 and 2008, and I have read it precisely for the reason that a peaceful soul could be rewritten and as an introduction as it was then done, put it in the Proposed Anti-Corruption Strategy. I personally have to say that I had one problem when we were, when I went to read this strategy and that's what to actually compare this strategy with? With an analysis of some current situation where there is no such thing in this strategy. In addition, in the previous two mandates, or two times, we talked about national programmes that clearly highlighted the implementation deadlines, but now based on this strategy and without knowing what it says in the action programme that the truth in the strategy is mentioned, but we do not, of course, have the right to say at all how successful this strategy will be, in fact, be. Because we can actually say on one side that in one good part of it all together and beautifully written. There is a danger of staying only at the level of good wishes and, on the other hand, in the implementation part, it is actually very questionable. I'm not going to say it again now, but my colleague Pusic, when speaking on behalf of the HNS Club, has actually shown especially where the integrity of the state service is talked about. So those goals that are listed inside, I find it difficult, I think they will find it difficult to understand those who should work to achieve these goals. I said already this is the third in a row that the strategy and the last programme is written for that programme in 2002, the government said it was primarily an emphasis on the final declaration of political will and the recognition of the fact that corruption is a serious social problem. And the one from, and the one from 2006, was an expression of the authority's determination to train institutions in curbing corruption and that law enforcement is of first-rate importance. I have to say that when I look at this current strategy, I ask the question, I really don't understand why another commission is being re-established. It's called a monitoring committee to monitor corruption control measures. Well, then everything tells us who the coordinator is, who everything's gonna be inside. Perhaps we should consider all together that our national so let's call it the Anti-Corruption Council that we have may be more meaningful to raise this council to the level of the working body of this Parliament, and then the council should not only consider certain reports or therefore only members of the council but also then appear as a working body who will be able to discuss certain laws concerning the fight against corruption. As, I don't know, sublegislative regulations relating to public procurement, amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act and so on. A string, a series of laws. What exactly do we have in Croatia today? Whether we want to admit it or not, we agree with it more or less, but we have the presence of corruption. We have behind all the tails of various unexplained affairs that have been involved and the highest officials of this country. Those tails, unfortunately, are being dragged today. We're talking about millions of public procurements that went directly to contracts. All I'm gonna say is I'm gonna mention these famous trucks in the morh that were purchased overnight by direct contract. The colleagues mentioned tails from the Brodosplit affair, the Privatisation Fund, the cost of building certain shares of our roads, the drivers of our ministers, and so on and so on. In fact, the citizens have remained and a bitter taste remains in force, in fact, that taxpayers' money is being mastered by those who do not know it and those who have no responsibility for their money who basically say they do not even know what was going on in their portfolios. And I ask how we'll all fight corruption together if the highest government officials fail to recognize corruption in our own ranks. I'm thinking about their resors. And if I'm not mistaken, it seems to me to be one of the main remarks Croatia receives when it comes to fighting corruption. That not all levels or bodies of the most state government are equally free of the will to fight corruption. And we here in the Croatian Parliament have often discussed the problems of different types of corruption in the adoption of different laws. I'm just going to remind you in my debate of a law that the government has changed in the last year or a half or two years, I don't even know how many times. It's about the Law on State Officials where we are, in fact, civil servants and tenants where we remind you of the politically appointed assistant ministers through the laws translated, I think they're now called directors if I don't cheat on certain administrations in certain ministries. As a public tender will go, so those who are able will be, if they meet the conditions, they will remain and so on. I'd like to have a real one, and I'll probably ask a representative question about how many former ministerial assistants are at the director's post today? If it's not political corruption, then I don't know what it is. Or should I remind you that when we recently changed both the coefficients, or those state leaders now in the state service, we put coefficients into state officials. And finally, I think, however, that the best way, or one of the best ways to fight corruption and in Croatia as well as elsewhere, would be to consistently respect the laws we adopt and to fight for the equality of all before the law. I don't think we should lose too many words, many of us from our benches have warned us that we're passing laws that aren't being followed and that they don't apply. And whether we're equal in front of the law or not and that's what you could talk about. Of some, let's tell those banal situations that it doesn't matter where you work, if you're the driver of a minister then you can go in the direction in which it's forbidden or turn into a street from which you can't turn away, and you can also become a judge of the Constitutional Court without paying taxes and that your case has gone out of date. I don't think an ordinary citizen could accomplish such a thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10943	Thank you very much. It follows further for the debate, distinguished representative Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10944	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I would mention this one saying that happens all the time, and that's the saying that we're not ready for zero, that we have a zero dose of tolerance, that's a non-existent term, not in medicine, but probably not in nature, because either you're toleranced or you're not toleranced, you can't be one percent tolerance or zero percent. If you're zero percent, then you're not tolerated, and I don't think that in the next discussion and in all of that at least in the House you should be mindful of that expression that doesn't mean anything, and when it doesn't mean anything, it doesn't mean the very saying zero zone or zero tolerance itself, it doesn't mean anything to me, so here I would plead to the rest of the debaters that we're not talking about zero tolerance, but we're talking about tolerance or intolerance to corruption, and we should be intolerant of corruption. When we talk about health care we are high, we who work in health care are aware of the perceptions of the people about what corruption is in health care and are believed to be high on the list of corrupt professions either in second or third place, depending on research. However, what was shown by anonymous polls conducted between 2000 and 2002 showed that the number of corrupt doctors was extremely low and in all of that, then the problem of corruption itself is different from what is perceived in the public, but perception is perception, so when it is said that a cardio surgeon is taking blue envelopes to get on the operating list, so it turns out that it is true in Rijeka, but it was also known that it was also on Rebr and that it was in Dubrava, but we failed to prove it, and then all the doctors say are corrupt. The perception of health corruption because of these blue envelopes is something that this strategy, unfortunately, lacks itself a plan to combat corruption and, in that plan, is likely to be divided into two or three sides. In the first row of blue envelopes at the time when doctors are valorized as persons of reputation in society, at that moment blue envelopes will probably be the past because at the end of where I come from in Dalmatia there were always 3 persons in the village who were significant and these were priests, teachers and doctors. At this point, we must say that neither a teacher nor a doctor are any longer a prominent person in society, we are left with priests as some sort of moral vertical. Why didn't they? Because we put the doctor's work price below the auto mechanic's price. Naturally, I don't think the work of auto mechanics is valuable, but I think that I'm highly esteemed by the doctor and that in this way we should raise the reputation of a doctor in society and one of the ways is, we said that judges are corrupt, so we've raised their wages, we say that doctors are corrupt, so let's raise their wages to pay a specialist doctor in a county hospital with 10 years of working experience to be equal to the price of work, or pay the judge of the county court. In this way, we will raise the reputation of society, and also those doctors who work now for 7 thousand kunas or 7 thousand kunas, we will enable them to work quality with their lives and to do quality work in their profession, and we will probably also attract a lot more young people to devote themselves to this profession because it is known that our enrolment in medical schools is getting smaller and smaller and that in a few years we will have to import doctors, give God from Serbia, Macedonia which we understand, but we will probably get doctors from Kazakhstan, so there is a problem with how we agree with them, but it will be fate if we don't do something as soon as possible, so that we return this calling back to the level where it was fifty and more years ago. In addition to these blue envelopes and the possibility of bribery in health care, another measure is to enable access to healthcare and to tell our citizens that health care can be obtained during this and this period of time and that the Croatian Health Insurance Institute becomes a real insurance house, not a bureaucratic mastodont for which it would be best if there were no patients, then everything would be fine because less funds would then be spent. So, allowing health care in the extent possible with current financial resources would simply reduce waiting lists. What is there in real life is an example of 4 or 5 years ago a new young cardiosurgeon was brought to Rebro where there was a large waiting list and there was always this idea of corruption with the ability to operate in the morning and afternoon, to allow as much flow as possible of patients, waiting lists were practically gone and at the moment the missing waiting lists disappeared, the general perception of sharing envelopes on Rebra to operate on cardiac surgery. So, for this perception of the public, two things are essential. One thing is to raise salaries to doctors, but also to other medical staff, not only doctors, because they are only part of health care and the part that helps patients and the other part is to allow as many procedures as possible, so that practically waiting lists disappear. Another corruption that the people do not recognize and is not something that has been judged as a health corruption is silent corruption manifested in the purchase of certain devices in the supply of drugs and there is a state on the move. At the time when the state says that county hospitals will be able to build this and that medical equipment level will disappear and that quiet corruption will be known in which hospital you can get what device so that it won't be necessary then to obtain a CT from one company in contrast to another, so it's said that it needs more layers, less layers. There's a professor. Hebrang with whom we are, many times he pointed out that equipment should be standardised in hospitals and I hope that we will have the opportunity to adopt here in the Assembly a Law on Medical Equipment that should solve this problem and remove this silent corruption. And the third kind of corruption that our same citizens don't recognize is corruption by pharmaceutical companies, let's call corruption, but at the moment when the clear rules of the game are set up and the state pays in certain therapeutic indications one drug at one price reference, then in that sense there won't be a need for corruption in that quiet, means taking a doctor on certain trips with the idea of holding lectures there and in fact it's one gift for probably being more prone to prescribe a particular medicine. So it's on the move of the states. It is one that has to regulate two areas, meaning the area of medicines and medical equipment and medical products, because for this form of corruption to the people it is all one thing whether someone is paid to get this medicine or whether it is paid to obtain that instrument. It's important for the people to get a health care service to be operated, get an adequate cure, and it's not recognized as a form of corruption. What is recognized are blue envelopes and when we raise our salaries to the doctors, when we cancel or reduce the waiting lists, then that perception will disappear. For example, in Germany, even one of the candies you try to bring to your doctor is something that is unacceptable not only for this doctor but it is also unacceptable in society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10945	Thank you very much. The debate is further followed by the esteemed representatives of Biljana Borzana. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10946	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here's what to say about this material we got? I'd say the text is full of some kind of scary expressions that make sense of determination like action plan, anti-corruption unit, strategy, etc. Those concepts should probably leave the impression that the word corruption may only remain in the dictionaries to know what it means when we read some text from another country. And all of this is somehow until 7 pages and sentences on the financing of political parties are reached, that it must be transparent, because unclear and inaccurate commitments in the control of financing and the cost of political parties can lead to corruption in politics. As before, it wasn't exactly the case, but here's what we're going to say in this strategy so that someone doesn't give God a chance to behave like that. And then we remember all those calls to the public, the media association towards HDZ to publish information about campaigns for the presidential elections, and so on for parliamentary etc. And on this particular subject, the ruling structure had the opportunity to give a bright example of how corruption is prevented, and how this has not been done. This material in itself loses its credibility. Knowing that HDZ has long hidden campaign costs as a snake's feet and finally barely announced who can believe that this government has truly sincere intentions to deal with this harmful social phenomenon that violates fundamental social values as it already writes very nicely in the first sentence of material. It discourages the fact that the legal framework as a precondition for the successful fight against corruption is located in 16 laws and one decision that occurred in 11 years ago, and in the whole period corruption is a huge number of flowers. Corruption should not be particularly stressed, it is indeed a major problem and should be included in the wider circle of people. Disclosure of corruption depends in many ways on what is said by quotes of "ordinary people", to whistles, not just institutions, to justice, to police, etc. Here, the material mentions the need to strengthen awareness of the importance of preventing corruption and can absolutely agree with it, but what is actually happening to those people who have encouraged themselves and shown fairness to corruption. As these people pass through, the shortest and best said in my opinion in the title of the article on whistles in a daily newspaper recently published an article, the title was "They chose justice and got hell". So in Croatia today, if someone has evidence of corruption and crime can choose between two resolutions, one is to keep quiet and live quietly probably under stress because of what they know, and not dare report or report crime and corruption and turn their life into hell because of threats, chicaning, loss of work, etc. and the state does absolutely nothing to help such a person and to protect it. And what we can now say is that such a person is even worth what this important strategy says when it actually has nothing to do with real life. The text of the strategy mentions the words in countless places: it is necessary, it is necessary. So you know what you should do, but I wonder how much of what it says here has a chance to live in practice in order to be a bright example of an orderly state. I'm afraid of a little of that, because some of the more serious shifts in all those issues the government boasts about, "Maestro," diagnosis 1 and 2. Here today I've had the chance to hear that it's probably not going to be anything, because it's impossible to determine who the doctor was, or it's possible to determine but it's impossible to prove, so we're nowhere again. So all these results are what they say shakes the hills, a mouse is born. Here I would no longer owe, what is clear that I support this text, so it is relatively as it is correctly written, but although I would not want to be a wicked prophet, I am almost certain that from implementation there will be very little of it or nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10947	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Goran Beus Richembergh is next.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10948	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, thank you, gentlemen of the State Secretary. It is clear that corruption is one hydra, one octopus that has its tentacles practically in all spheres of society. However, the fact is also that practice shows that corruption has its own head in politics. It is not necessary to divulge to realize that the incentive for corruption is always in the political sphere or under political patronage. It is hard to believe that a government that has never negotiated and paid public work from the highway and, moreover, at the same price, can be an authentic interpreter of an anti-corruption strategy. And the latest scandal to which we are witnessing, which is the incredible price increase of the Zagreb-Sisak highways, with 4 million euros as the average price of 2003 km, and you must know that at that average price there were then very unfavourable shares of highways that passed through the stoner and other parts, and now we are told that this plain road, 47km long, will cost no less, or more than 12 million euros. So how is it possible that as much as 300% of the price of construction works has increased, as it is possible to put under our noses, the story of fuel prices rising, when we know that fuel prices have affected the cost of construction in the past 3 years and about 7%. Furthermore, one of the most devastating forms of corruption is certainly political corruption. Unfortunately, in this document, not a word of it. But we're not short-minded people, we're not short-lived people. Let's remember what's going on from 2005 to today. Have you forgotten the circus that took place in Croatia in 2005 when by recruiting, paying, buying councilmen, authorities in two counties, several cities and municipalities fell. Well, do you remember in 2006 there were extraordinary elections in those environments? So I didn't say that I was offered 350 thousand euros, but a living and healthy man in front of 15 journalists who recorded it, played it on the Internet, but I'm certainly one of the witnesses, one of the 15 people he personally told. What happened? Nothing. USKOK investigated the case by examining two or three people, to this day we don't know if it's true that man said he was offered 350 thousand euros. I'd like to know if what one HNS councilman says is true, that he was offered 50,000 euros in Varazdin? It makes sense to me that in the first year of your term, if you go over the offer of 350, and in the last one you can't get that kind of money, the price goes down. But let me remind you, a man in front of 15 witnesses was saying that he was daily called Minister of Finance Mr. Shucker, asking him to change sides. I would remind him that in front of all the witnesses, he claimed that a person named Ante Simunovic wrote him the resignation text to return to the council and change sides. It is a HDZ secretary in Velika Gorica that led a project worth 38 million kuna, in order to establish that goods, or equipment worth millions and 200 thousand kunas signed and paid for by the city money, were never delivered. All reported to the State's Attorney's Office. Nothing ever happened. You know what happened? Two months ago, the Government of the Republic of Croatia appointed him as a member of the Financial Agency's administration. A man sits in FINA with a good principal's salary, and there's not a single day's internship in the financial sector. And what does that mean? That means a man is rewarded for his activism. It's this political corruption. Should it be recalled what happened in Sisak, where counterpart Vidovic was forced into the street. And may I remind you how many men were forced into the session of the City Council of the City of Velika Gorica? It's all that political corruption context. So will we forget what happened in Sinj, what happens now in Varazdin? So we have to keep learning a lesson from the beginning. Well, wasn't it said in this House that we would stand up to it, because it's not fair, it's not fair, it's not moral that what the citizens decided in the elections, it's someone changing money bags or apartments anyway. That's what this is about. I know I'm gonna have trouble with what I said today. It's not the first time I have to inform you here, but Minister Ivan Shuker has three times threatened to destroy me and my family. And he'll probably do it again, so I'm not afraid of him. But you need to tell the truth, you need to tell the truth. This is our reality, our reality is the ambience in which we live, where it cannot obviously function beyond the burden and dangers of political corruption. Political corruption is also when you settle people from your own party without any competition, take them to work. Isn't that political corruption? Can we then be authentic interpreters of anti-corruption policy or is this a fight against anti-corruption? What's it really about, what's it about? How can we know which way this strategy goes if it is general and has no action plan? And now here's the best I'm letting the president of the HDZ Club convince me that everything I said is simply not true, and so is my rectifier, Mrs. Ivanka, on duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10949	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First, we have two applications for correcting an incorrect quote. Dear representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10950	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, the esteemed colleague said a few inaccuracies. Among other things, I quote: "A colleague Vidovic has been forced out of power". No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, He's been voted by two SDP councilmen, and you know why? Because several times on the city council, they warned their mayor of some irregularities. Among other things, to the people he surrounded, so from your party, your former member, who soon after losing power in Sisak SDP, HNS, moved to DC. I really don't know at this point if he's even in DC anymore because he hasn't achieved all his wishes and intentions. That's why you see her, colleague Vidovic, that his members warned him about some people he surrounded, and he wasn't thrown out of power because of something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10951	Thank you very much. Correction of the quote, dear colleague Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10952	Thank you very much. Just two inaccuracies from the sequence. First, it's not true that I'm going to convince you that you're telling the truth, because you know it yourself, so you don't need it. You know you said it incorrectly because you know it's false. Second, it's not true what his colleague said was a circus. So he said, quote him, started in 2005. No, mate, the circus started in 2000. The first act in the circus performance was called Excelsior, the second act on May 3rd, the third act "Viktor Lenac", the fourth disappearance of Pliva shares, the fifth privatisation of HT, the sixth privatisation of 25% of INA shares. And the circus would've continued if the voters liked the show, so lucky it didn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10953	Thank you very much. We also have the application of one replica, the distinguished representative Mato Bilnjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10954	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I didn't want to correct the incorrect allegations, so I wanted to do a replica, so I could pollomize with my colleague. Political corruption. When you talk about something, that's what a colleague on the right here said, 300 times then, maybe 301 times and it's true. I'm a politician who doesn't believe there's too much political corruption, because I've been in executive power for years. No one has ever reported to me either me or a member of the headship, or my commission, although in the field of special state care every year I had a financial inspection from the ministry, and there were also signs of state audits in this section. All the people who say they've been offered 50 to 350 thousand kunas, and I think they're corruption, and they're those people who just encourage corruption, and they're hiding here I'm being offered, I'm being honest with those things once. If someone was offered money, why didn't he take the money and take it to the police station, why didn't he report it, and have today a corpus delict that Pero Peric gave Mark Markovic. I've been head of the municipality for years, I've been in the county, I've never had anyone come to me in my life and told me, my colleagues are offered 5, 10, 15, 20, 50 or more thousands, mainly 350, 50 to 350 thousand euros. I think those people who bring you up, they're lies, and those who have so much, who talk so much about political corruption, I'm not sure their fingers are cute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10955	Thank you very much. A reply to the replica of the honourable representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10956	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, please turn around and you'll see my manipulations. So, hands clean, look at my fingers. As for your skepticism, I admit your right because you may not have participated in it, but you know when the whole village is talking about it then there must be some kind of smoke fire somewhere, and you know Mr. Hebrang here lists a whole series of cases to which as well as to prove that political corruption was before 2005, so when that is the case, Mr. Representative, and you will remember for sure that even earlier, there was a case when Antun Šporer and Mr. Vukovic changed the uniform in the Zagreb City Assembly, they brought HSS's position and brought HDZ to power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10957	Thank you very much. Mr Zdenko Franic has also applied for the debate. Here you go. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Dear Representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10958	Mr. Vice President, the honourable representatives of the proposer, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The Republic of Croatia, as well as other European countries, has recognised the harmfulness of corruption, the phenomenon that violates social values, leads to serious economic consequences, stimulates the grey economy, reduces the state's incomes, endangers citizens' equality and security, reduces resistance to organised crime, and there is much more that could be added here. The value of the anti-corruption strategy that we are discussing today continues, we have already established, on the national anti-corruption programme in 2006-2008. So far, experience in implementing the anti-corruption programme has produced some results, significantly improved the fight against corruption, so I think it is important to point out that the assessment of the perception of corruption in the Republic of Croatia 4.1 is on the Transparency International index for 2007 which is the highest score since the corruption measurement is carried out. I'll remind you, in 2006, she was thinking 3.4. The proposed anti-corruption strategy, together with the action plan, must clearly define measures, deadlines, responsible institutions, the necessary means, and all in order to improve the legal and institutional framework to combat corruption, strengthen citizens' confidence in state institutions, effectively detect and prosecute criminal offences, improve the co-operation of state bodies, international bodies, cooperation with civil society organisations. Strengthening the institutional framework is crucial for the successful implementation of the fight against corruption, and therefore it is necessary to improve the cooperation of all institutions and bodies involved in the implementation of anti-corruption policy. The National Council for the Monitoring of the Implementation of the National Corruption Prevention Programme shall, by means of its proactive role, endeavour to implement the strategy, the cooperation of the competent national authorities will be coordinated, and the coordination will be carried out by the Commission to monitor the corruption control measures drawn up by the representatives of the bodies responsible for the implementation of certain actions of the action plan. Especially important areas of the fight against corruption are preventing conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties, enforcement of rules on the financing of political parties, the exercise of the right to access information, strengthening the integrity of public administration, regulation of public procurement, protection of damages. The amendment of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest strengthens the supervisory role of the Commission. The offenders are being sanctioned. The property of officials is defined. The Law on the financing of political parties ensures transparency of the source and the costs of political parties. Donations limits are set, anonymous donations are prohibited. The public authorities shall be obliged to grant access to information and to provide information on the implementation of the law. The availability of judicial practice contributes to strengthening citizens' trust in the judicial system. In order to strengthen the professionality of the state administration, an ethical code of state officials containing anti-corruption mechanisms in the work of civil servants has been adopted. Special attention is paid to the admission into the public service, the promotion, the improvement, the award of civil servants. In connection with the protection of damages, the Republic of Croatia is obliged to provide compensation mechanisms for people who are damaged by corruption. The protection of damages shall be ensured through general provisions on compensation for damages and specific provisions such as the Law on civil servants, the Law on Courts, the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, the Law on Police, the Labour Act. The reform of the judiciary is a justice ministry project aimed at improving and speeding up the work of all judicial authorities. Establishing the rule of law through an effective and up-to-date judiciary. Building citizens' trust in an impartial and effective judiciary is also a fundamental assumption in countering corruption. The implementation of the judicial reform has produced significant results in strengthening the independence of courts, impartial, professional and professional work of the judiciary. Major efforts have been made to reduce the number of pending cases and the positive trend continues. Permanently invests in the infrastructure of information technology that conducts electronic management and division of cases, enables the monitoring of judges' work, improves the system of management of courts, increases the transparency of the work of courts. The reforms of land books and catastra are successfully carried out, resulting in public insight into the state of the land books, registering property rights that reduce the possibility of corruption. Inspection of the court's administration is being conducted, the court's network is being rationalised. An obligation has been introduced to report on the property of judges and state lawyers. Strengthening the legal framework for the prevention of corruption should focus on further changes in material and procedural laws in order to ensure that courts are disbursed from holding discussions in cases where the situation is such that they can be terminated without debate. It is also necessary to raise the quality and dynamics of the process in complex cases. The delivery should be made effective because it is crucial for the regular procedure. An analysis of the subsequent persecution shows significant changes in the persecution of corruption occurred in 2007. That the structure of criminal offences is about criminal parts of the middle and high level. The operation of USKOK as a special State Anti-Corruption Attorney shows the importance of specialised bodies in detecting and persecuting criminal offences. The co-operation between USKOK and police, the use of special reconnaissance techniques, cooperation with financial and tax surveillance authorities, facilitates the punishment of the perpetrators and facilitates the work to confiscate the property benefit acquired by criminal acts. Continued activity in the implementation of the strategy should certainly be the expansion of public awareness of corruption through media, round tables, seminars, other ways of pointing to corruption's harmfulness, continued education, specialist education and others. From what is stated, it is necessary to support the adoption of a strategy to combat corruption because it is an extremely important document for the successful operation of society, institutions and each individual. Because only a joint appearance can contribute to a successful fight against corruption that is not devoid of any state. It is therefore no wonder that it is another criterion set by the European Union to strengthen society in the fight against corruption. I believe that the strategy should also be supported for the reasons it complements, revises, adapts the current anti-corruption activities in line with achievements and shortcomings and thus guarantees that through the strengthening of the institutional and legal framework corruption will be brought to a level that will not be an obstacle to the social, economic and political development of the Republic of Croatia. I therefore support the adoption of the anti-corruption strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10959	Thank you very much. Followed by debates by distinguished counterpart Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10960	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues are here all afternoon really dealing with one of the most important segments and appearances in our society. In their discussions, some colleagues pointed out that they felt that this strategy would never come to life. On the contrary, I can say that I believe that we are going to step by step really all the goals that this strategy and the principles that it has drawn out are we because we also have a National Programme to combat corruption which is also a fundamental document in the fight against corruption from which this strategy arises. It is certain that the problem of corruption is present almost in all areas of life, especially in specific categories of society, which are public people most often exposed to public and citizens control. That public opinion through various studies, that's what the Proposer is saying, and we can read daily that the most corruption, that the public's highest perception of corruption has right here with us politicians, and that's why the state services because when we talk about how the state works then we think about the functioning of public officials, so how do we try to change it and prevent it? So here we have recently brought a change to this Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest that has defined a lot. Who set additional goals in preventing conflicts of interest. Another significant area is the financing of political parties. If we remember, we have also passed a law, a change of the Law on the financing of political parties, but we have not yet solved the problem that we have mentioned here today. That's the so-called. political corruption. I am responsible for the replica of my colleague Opačić presented the example in which Gordana Krznarić, I will now name if you can read to the public on the Internet, did nothing secret, the DC council gave her presence at the county assembly a simple quorum in making the budget. A month later, she became chief adviser to economic policy and regional development. That's what's called a job at the county development facility. But imagine, no public competition. The director of this public institution says that a public tender is not necessary because it stands in the basic documents of this institution. Imagine, will the public consider whether this is about political corruption? I'm sure it's working. The same case was in the County Road Authority. The same case is the unnumbered evidence of a temporary and temporary contract that rewards the relatives of the County Assembly's council members for what is primarily necessary, which is the hand in counting votes to make some significant decisions. So, that's exactly it. It's this political corruption that's not paid for money like my colleague Beus used to say. It's not paid for money, it's paid for by a job, but it's also the same money. I think we should all work on it together and just take that stain off of us politicians. And I must also say that this strategy, I will try to shorten what I have prepared and the proponent of this strategy points out that public opinion shows that in some areas of society special efforts should be made, and that is certainly the everyday part of our life. Health, justice, administration and education. We're the most sensitive to health and education. I'm not going to talk about health care because here my fellow respected doctors have spoken so far, but you know when the issue of our life, then we're really the most sensitive to children, it means education and education and the most sensitive to our own life and our own health. Since I am the most involved in education, I will try only to point out what has been done in the Ministry of Science and Education, which is making a really great effort to improve the system of education. For years, we have known what is the material situation and the material position of the enlighteners. But fortunately, I'll say it here. They don't associate with the so-called Enlightenment. blue envelopes as they bind to doctors, but the concept of instruction that each other's professors provide furniture, so when you turn it into blue envelopes, it comes to you the same thing. However, I think that both in the field of health and in the field of education, we are making extraordinary efforts to at least remove that mark of corruption from both professors and doctors. I disagree with the fact that doctors are corrupt, and I also disagree with the opinion of the public, that educators are corrupt. I don't agree because we all have to take down those markings, we have to, it's our duty to talk about that what's happening isn't true. Individual cases cannot be practice and must not be practice. When we start out as responsible people towards our voters to point it out as something that isn't true, which is possible, but it's not true and it's not common, then we're going to start changing public opinion. But we have to get out of here. What did the ministry do? Well, it's done a lot. Here, today we had a thematic debate about the introduction of a state degree. That's one big step. One big step this introduction of state graduation is that it is impossible to corrupt someone in some way to pass and classed exams at the university, but also for some advantages possibly when enrolling in several schools or higher education institutions. A national exam was introduced as a form of external evaluation, an independent evaluation of education. The introduction of adult education systems and the entire life control system is strengthened over this system by strengthening inspection services. But I still think, it's my personal opinion that we all together and the ministry have to make extra efforts to control the various, I'm going to tell those schools that are formed, the popular open schools or schools, I'm not going to undermining anyone who conducts adult education because it's impossible for you to finish 4 years of education, and there are such institutions, unfortunately, in which it is possible. That is why inspection services need to be tightened further. We've established agencies that follow these implementing regulations and the National Centre for External Evaluation. The adoption of pedagogical standards will introduce a network of schools and primary and secondary and indeed bring the system into the transparency of funding and professional work in it. The Law on textbooks resolved the conflict of interest in a way that textbook authors cannot be the activities of the ministry, agencies, those who decide to use the textbook. It's simply forbidden by this law. Also, the new law that is in the process, we have had the first reading, certainly will return the dignity, dignity, value to the educators, teachers, teachers to implement the measures of professional ethics. They deserve it. I'll only touch one small segment of higher education. Those who deal with science and education well know that the new criteria for selecting scientific projects have also done order in the field, as well as reviewers who are parties involved in the selection of projects do the same. Here, school through the education system can play another important role in solving and combating corruption as a major evil society in building public opinion because the very education and start of citizens in this problem and phenomenon is changing from kindergarten to primary school and secondary school where there are even objects that could and must deal with this problem as an subject of ethics and economy as one of the segments. So I think we all need to get involved in pointing out this problem not only to the institutions and going from ourselves and so not in a month, two or a year, but in two years, this strategy that is ahead of us will be very much able to implement it. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10961	Thank you very much. We have one reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Biljana Borzana. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10962	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellows, here you are on two occasions mentioning, we should go on our own, I agree with that. But then I don't know what time you've been describing some examples today where the SDP is in power, so you might get the impression that the SDP is highly corrupt, or a party of highly corrupt people, which is absolutely not true, and whenever research has been done by the SDP, public perception of SDP is where and where better for honesty than the HDZ. So if we go into a dispute now about corruption with concrete examples, we could be late at night and trust that ours will be the last.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10963	Thank you very much. Replicate response, Your Honor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10964	Mr. Vice President, so look at the research you'd be able to talk about how and when you order some research. But, however, I am the person who really thinks we have to go on our own. I didn't point to the SDP. In my county he's in power of the SDP, I'm starting from who's in power at the local level. I didn't start this. If you remember, you are several times, which is why I replicated to my dear colleague Opačić, which is why she pointed out that the most corruption is related to HDZ. I just brought you one counterargument that said no, let's go from all the political parties, let's all wash our laundry. Let's not talk about it here with me when there's something in your middle.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10965	Thank you very much. Further reports follow the debate of the distinguished representative, Josip Lek. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10966	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honored representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. I'll show myself right now. My point is that the high degree of corruption in our country, in our society, is the responsibility of the government. So there is no corruption without a corrupt authority, nor can it be contained without the persistent political will of the government. If my thesis is correct, I'll try to prove it. Here's only from the behaviour of today's current government, just when it comes to the debate on the strategy of curbing corruption, we can conclude that the government, government and the parliamentary majority have come up with a great idea to do so in the backdrop of the public. It would be logical that what is the most difficult burden and the biggest brake for the development of the Republic of Croatia and the entry into the European Union to discuss when it is the freshest representative and when it is the highest monitoring of the work of the Parliament. It's in front of TV cameras in the morning. We deliberately managed to excitate it. But what is the cause of corruption in Croatian society and in the Croatian state? Are Croatians and Croatian citizens worse than others? To find ourselves on a scale of corruption perception between Bulgaria and Turkey. Is that why we as a people are responsible or is the system and government? I think it's a transfer of responsibility to the political side of an alibi game. I am deeply convinced that corruption has taken a swing in Croatian society through conversion and privatisation from 93 to today. If this is added to what is intentional, which is unintentional and today all state records have been unsettled. We can call for land books, but we know that Croatia does not guarantee the correctness of data in land books. It did not declare this principle a valid principle. Then, in Croatian society, it is also normal in the Croatian government to claim that the political influence on the executive government is legitimate and that political power must, that executive power must do what politics decides. We've heard that in Parliament countless times. Then where's the rule of law? Then where's the rule of law? But while it is possible to buy an entire company in Croatia, without paying neither kuna tax nor sales tax nor for this company with the blessing of politics, it cannot be talked about the political will to combat corruption. Here's an example, you have countless but I'll say it like this. "Suncani Hvar" is an extremely important and important tourist company, attractively, sold under a public private partnership company so that the private partner acquired the company just because he invested in raising it. But look at the wonders, that the Croatian government and the Croatian government declare it a secret, secret business contract, and what citizens will think rather than that it is a very narrow interest or corruption of the top of the government. To say that we had resolved the Law on Political Parties I was at several round tables where some of the European Union representatives were, everyone asked if you had introduced an independent body that would be able to control party financing in election campaigns. We had to say we didn't, because we really didn't. So in real political time, Croatia did not want to install an independent political body in the legal system to control the financing of political campaigns. Then, here in the strategy is the mention of public procurement. If we can be satisfied with that level of transparency, then we can say that we are insensitive to corruption. The European Union and European economic experts and partners in the Republic of Croatia both publicly say that they have been recalibrated in the Republic of Croatia through a public procurement system. If in this House we have never received exactly how much money has been spent through the form of a direct contract in one year, through a direct contract system, and how many jobs have therefore been done, how will we be able to tell our citizens that we know how the public procurement system is achieved in Croatia? Well, we can't do that. Let's see what happens to the Committee to prevent conflicts of interest. We can talk about good intentions, but it's clear that this body won't work for a year. It's not the responsibility of the opposition. We cannot say that it is the depoliticalisation of this commission when the number of politically dependent members in the commission is increasing. So the facts speak differently than the strategy here wants to show. We can, and it must be mentioned, the most recent case is indeed the "Maestro" action. For a year, a supposed procedure is being conducted, and only in the second and third order, allegedly responsible without any responsible politician, and now to conclude citizens are not crazy, there will be a lot of shouting for nothing or, as they say in Dalmatia, eaten by a donkey wolf. These are examples that cannot deceive either Europe or Croatian citizens, that the serious fight against corruption is by the Croatian authorities. I remember an example that drastically derogates the rule of law. The prime minister of our government's radio interview orders his minister to withdraw the tax ruling. So neither do kings sovereignly, and there is an orderly second-degree system. We cannot then say that the fight against corruption is a matter of strategies, action plans, and that no corruption-related affair is true or is not correct has received an epilogue from competent state institutions. Then it is a loss of trust in institutions, so perception every day no matter what we do in the Croatian Parliament, and foreign economic partners will be increasingly difficult to come to Croatia and will increasingly complain that they have been recruited through a system of corruption that has protection from our authority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10967	Thank you very much. Keep going. We have a correction. Dr. Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10968	Thank you very much. Well, here's my colleague, Leko, as usual, who likes to serve false things, so he said we're doing this debate behind the back of the public. I don't see where the public is that we're behind her back. That's incorrect. If the public wants to know, then all these reporters downstairs who listen to us now will write their reports, play their videos and let them go, and the public will know what we're saying. I hope the press is on the job just like we are. If they're not, it's not our fault. Second, it is incorrect, that only foreigners say they are racketeering in Croatia. And our entrepreneurs say they've been recalibrated abroad, and here we are 1:1. And what's most incorrect is that it's a shame to be in the index that we got close to Turkey. I don't see why it's a shame. First, Turkey did not have 50 years of communism, so it is ahead of us, it has not had 10 years of Serbian aggression, so it is ahead of us and it is good that we are equal with Turkey, and that we are better than them we will show in Vienna on Friday.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10969	Thank you very much. Representative Leko, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10970	... to the qualifications of fellow Hebrang. ... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] You've given your qualification, so it's an honor. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You know what you said. And I'm just going to say that you've wrongly corrected a false quote, I wasn't saying it behind my back, I wasn't saying it behind the back of the public, you weren't quoting me. I was talking. ... I know, it's not the same behind and behind. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] All right, all right. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Then what you've qualified for me applies to you now.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10971	Let's move on. Thank you. Tatjana Šimac Bonačić, the esteemed representative, reported for discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10972	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here we are in front of us another strategy that speaks of everything that is necessary, which we are essentially aware of, which is strengthening institutional frameworks to fight corruption, then better cooperation of existing institutions and, of course, intolerance to corruption, but without the aforementioned action plan, which we heard tonight, in fact during all the debates. Otherwise, corruption, of course, as a major social depravity, has been known since ancient times, so Dante put the corrupts in the lowest circle in hell. Of course it pollutes the moral environment. Otherwise, the highest degree of corruption has actually arisen in the privatisation process and continues to this day. As one of the mortal sins is the greed that actually gave birth to this corruption. I will also quote today and in fact "In Croatia, there is a sin of structure which was made possible by regulations and laws which did not have a general good for man and community". I hope you recognize the words from Mr Bozanic's Christmas note in '97. A year. However, the sin structure has continued, modified, shaped, packed. Let's remember today we actually mentioned a number of corruption affairs. We know that in fact corruption exists in all countries recently, but in Croatia it is often perceived as a way of ruling. We often ask ourselves, in fact, whose pocket ended in six million dollars, etc. of "Brodosplite" and all those affairs that were mentioned today or not mentioned, but they are known. However, often our government says it has and implements the Strategy to combat corruption, but also citizens, and the European Union warns that it is dust in the eyes. We often hear that it has actually gone to doctors, but corruption has deeper roots, that is, because actually when we talk about corruption in medicine, that is, corruption among doctors, which today has been a speech, so I won't repeat, that is, a very serious problem, but it's not so widespread, but it would certainly welcome the actions of both "Diagnosis 1" and "Diagnosis 2", where they actually lead to major damage, those that have caused major damage and, of course, to the state budget. Actually, I'd like to mention tonight and I'd like to ask myself, is corruption possible abuse of the position of the leaders of our local environments? What about the secret contract signed by the city government without the approval of the city council? It's actually the acquisition of powers that the monarchs had in ancient times, it's about abuse of power. Imagine a project worth nearly 18m euros, put on that designation of secrecy, thus breaking the Law on the right to access information. Therefore, such a model of public private partnership can also be called a secret private partnership. However, pressure from the public and our city councillors, a code of secrecy was removed, but then again a scandalous finding, that the city is a hostage debtor of a company that was founded with a core capital of 20 thousand kuna. Imagine a loan of 12 million 547 thousand 145 euros and this mortgaged land on which to build a garage by 2022. And imagine if the company doesn't repay the loan, of course the bank becomes the owner of the land and potential garages. I wonder what the U.S. Attorney's office is doing, what it's doing, when the affairs are already out. Where state institutions are competent, whether they are doing their job, and are obliged to launch an investigation into city affairs as soon as they get the first information about possible actions, and received it through the media. It's clear to all of us that it's a blurry business. If the city's leaders are playing with the property of citizens where the risk factor is huge, and the citizens have given them confidence. Furthermore, not to mention the 5-star affairs mentioned today on a few occasions, namely the event around the Bevia Hotel, it was actually the initiator of the 5-star corruption affair. Apparently, USKOK also has ton records when ordering a judicial decision on corruption, about a corruption octopus whose reconstruction has just begun with the application of Mr. Strok, who has reported blackmail and racket to the competent institutions. Mr. Strok is also mentioned tonight and regarding Excelsior, I don't want to be his lawyer, but I must mention that at the time it was the best offer and that it was crucial who would offer a larger amount of stock and take over the state guarantee, then it would have been Mr. Goran Strok. Now he has reported from moral obligations, of course to both employees and to his company. Judicial institutions are expected to do their job. However, the 5-star corruption affair did not produce the kind of justice that was expected, nor did the political consequences that were naturally objectively expected. When the players who were arrested were brought before the Court of Investigation, it was said then that it was only the first step in unwrapping the big ball of corruption. However, they were smoked out of custody. I would also further mention suspicious privatisation, i.e. the role of the court in the process of legalising the kidnapping of valuable companies, the acquisition of state property. Of course, this is all happening in my town. Political corruption is also mentioned tonight, I will say this example, and we have this example in Dubrovnik-Neretva County, when the county councilman from HSP was offered 200,000 euros. Of course, it is an attack on Croatia's democratic system. In the end, I will say that I and my citizens, my county, my electoral units, surely all of Croatia, would be very happy, that we have reason to believe in the rule of law. And I think it's worth more to solve at least one corruption affair, maybe more than bring any coffee declarations that are actually ahead of us. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10973	Thank you very much. There's still a debate going on. Dear representative Marija Lugarić. She's gone. He's losing his right to debate. The next call came the distinguished representative Nadica Jelash. She's here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10974	Dear Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I'll begin my debate with a rhetorical question. In fact, what do you say to the reaction of young people when you ask them if they would report a case of corruption if they had confirmation of it, so if they had evidence? They all answer you in a row so you don't. You think they're responding because they think corruption is "cool". I'm sure they don't think so. They feel the same way as their parents do. They're scared. They have learned that in Croatia it is more rational to remain silent and adapt to the situation and these young people, as we like to say, are the future of Croatia. What future can we expect? Of course I don't mean to say that I think young people are guilty. They are only part of Croatian society, and this society has been sending them for years a message that morality and honesty or regular procedure through public institutions are deplaced categories. The first lessons were learned in enrolment or in employment. Or, for example, they were sick. That is why I agree with representative Marija Buric-Pejcinovic when he says that from the earliest childhood, the atmosphere of non-accepting corruption should be created, with the fact that in the story of education it is most important to set a positive example. But I regret to say that this authority certainly does not set such an example. Each government to a greater or lesser extent builds schools and hospitals, roads and bridges, or introduces the fast Internet even into houses where there is no electricity. Specific or strategic objectives can also be set. For the current government, such a strategic objective is to join the European Union. But any government would bring us into the European Union. We know that citizens far more than the European Union or NATO are interested in everyday life, which unfortunately represents a naked survival for most of them. A literal struggle for survival. And this government has not freed us from the fear of corruption that blocks the work of institutions, which prevents citizens from feeling safe and protected in their own country. How will the government react, for example, against tycoons who do not pay salaries or at the height of their salaries, so those who pay actually insult and humiliate workers about whom there has been a lot of talk today in "The current morning". So when these tycoons finance election campaigns, corruption is so involved in the Croatian daily routine that it becomes almost a way of life. It will soon blend with the legitimate institutions of the state so much that it will not be noticed that it exists at all. That evil is, therefore, an enormous evil that devours the foundations of the state. If we don't want to see her, we see Europe from the inside. And he resents us and warns us that we will not be able to enter into their society. Justice is unattainable in Croatia and it is the cornerstone of security. The truth is the growing number of processed cases of petty corruption but when it comes to cases of high corruption they generally lag behind in some stages of the investigation. The government reacts to corruption cases only verbally, declared to hear Europe. To like Europe. And this strategy that we are discussing today is one such general and formal document without real will to solve the problem. In fact, the best part of this strategy is the following, I quote: "Among the most significant consequences of corruption is the loss of public confidence in the bodies of the state government, which is consequently negatively reflected in the economic development of society. Therefore, not only corruption but the very suspicion of corruption and the impression of corruption question the credibility of every government." And the impression of corruption in Croatia is extremely high. Accordingly, it is clear what the credibility of the current government is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10975	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Next thing you know, I'm giving my word to the esteemed representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10976	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, the government's representatives, here's the first thing I'm going to do is give you one proposal next time you're in Parliament's presidency, ask your colleagues in the presidency that maybe instead of having a two-week break between the sessions one week will be a minor break, and that we can discuss in some more appropriate terms when there won't be all a few MPs in the assembly. Corruption, when we talk about the anti-corruption strategy, I will also support as a representative in the Croatian Parliament and I believe that every act, every document that fights, let's say that the evil of the modern era, is good and should be supported. Corruption is not a specificity only of our country, nor is it a problem only of Croatia. It is not a subject that, as fellow Hebrang said, should be viewed from one or that position of the party but simply by all parties should be in the interest that this phenomenon should be contained. It destroys citizens' trust in the institutions of the state. Ruins trust in power, destroys confidence in the entire democracy and the entire system. But on the other hand, if there were no authorities, there probably wouldn't be so much corruption, because there has to be a cause for it somewhere. But since we're fighting it, that's how the level of democracy of a particular society shows. We have a strategy ahead of us that we can read, measure or analyze, one way or another, but it's a matter of will. Is there a will that, after this strategy has been adopted, the political will that will be shown after the adoption of this strategy will be fully fulfilled. Corruption is as difficult to measure as the promoter himself has said. So here's Transparency International measured it. He gave an estimate of 4.1 per index measured worldwide, and the promoter said it is the largest and best rating so far, the largest index measured in Croatia. I think we can't be satisfied with that index because it places us somewhere in the middle of that table by world standards and we're kind of more, we're closer to total corruption than to those countries that are without corruption. Maybe actions like Maestro, Gruntovec, Three Tenors, Diagnosis 1, Diagnosis 2 have contributed to this index slightly increase. But the fact is that HDZ's actions are a sales contract between HDZ and HSU and HSU's councillor "on line" trade in Sinj when it means HDZ offered by electronic means, by fax means projects to the city in return to bring down the legitimately elected government or "Cash and Carry" action that we witnessed today by example in Varazdin, perhaps such actions really reduce that index and perhaps the index would have been more positive for Croatia if they hadn't been there. It shows the political will of a particular party to carry out anti-corruption activities and to show on some examples where it can and directly influence not only declares that corruption does not exist. If we talk about Croatia's position and that corruption index, we are here somewhere in the same proportion as Bulgaria. The fact is that Bulgaria has been having a lot of problems lately because of this and the European Union has put about 550m euros of European ice funds on account of corruption investigations being conducted in Bulgaria. So, if we were to measure ourselves with Bulgaria, I wouldn't be satisfied, and it probably wouldn't be the European Union either, so I don't think that this position is appropriate for us and that we should try to make it more positive. As far as the document itself is concerned, in some things mention the situations that have happened, some of the things that have been done, I would say that I really don't understand why the Committee for the Monitoring of Corruption Measures, which is its purpose because the Monitoring Committee, it just finds out whether some part of the strategy or action plan has been implemented, and whether it has concrete activities, we have no information. On the other hand, the Committee for Decision on the conflict of interest of state officials, which I have already said today in one replica, has done a lot of positive things in recent years, seven months of HDZ's will has not been established. So, the new commission isn't put together, and no one controls the state officials. So, from ministers, parliamentary deputies and other officials, not only state officials, they have no control over themselves for seven months exclusively by the ruling party's will. As far as citizens are concerned and how they perceive corruption, I must note that the most citizens are perceived by corruption in either state institutions or those institutions associated with state authorities. If I were to mention a critical problem in Croatia, the problem of unemployment, as much as 40% believe or have witnessed corruption in the employment of the state administration, and when I say that in the last 5.6 years in the state administration, 50, 60 thousand new people have been employed, then I guess you know what number, which is the figure. I'm not saying exclusively that everything is connected to the ruling party, yet there are other forms from classic moving to various family ties, but the fact that there is not enough transparency to contain this form of corruption in the state administration. As for one important segment, which is the economy, I think corruption is the cancer of the Croatian economy and some analyses say it is 6 billion kunas lost annually by the Croatian economy due to corruption. The state has a major impact on the economy and it spends or affects 2/3 of everything produced in Croatia. Therefore, we must work to ensure that institutions that oversee business and state and state institutions and state-owned companies are in a better position to control how public money is managed as easily as possible. We also have a fresh example from last year, someone also mentioned a year from the Maestro Privatisation Fund has no concrete stuff that came out of it except that the paper releases information that some year's hope is in prison because it's got a roast, I think it's a little unserious, that there are too many values spinning and that there would have to be a little more activity to prove that this problem is being approached seriously. As far as law is concerned and introduced as the Law on Personal Identification Numbers is concerned, it is not proof in my opinion that there has been serious access to control in Croatia, in a way that someone has acquired their property because it could have been controlled before. There was only a question of will, whether we wanted to through certain institutions and certain laws that have been in force so far to determine whether someone had acquired property in a legal or illegal way. Unfortunately, in the most common case, there was no will, so we had people who were registered on the stock market, and they had millions of villas on the coast, and then we explored where they came from. As far as public procurement is concerned, the fact is that there are a lot of complaints every year and I think there must be another extra step because there is too much value spent by the state. That's about 44 billion kuna. I find that new law correct, good. The institution that coordinates and controls public procurement is good, supervision, a review that controls all state institutions is good, but something is probably missing, there is no desire to change it because every year the audit is in place in different ministries, state-owned companies that there are regulations in the implementation of this law and public procurement procedures, but it is rare that those who have been sanctioned for failing to comply with the law. Not to mention the examples that my colleagues used to mention here during the evening. In the end, I think that people who have reported corruption should be given credit and whistles and those who have spoken publicly about corruption do not feel too secure. There are examples where people, in some ways almost lost their heads, aren't protected, the police don't know if they've been able to find the perpetrators, other people who talk about that maybe economically they could have gone more cost-effectively if they paid the bribe, doesn't mean that these people feel safe and that we're creating an environment that doesn't tolerate corrupt behavior. Finally, I see that I am running out of time I want to say that I support the adoption of this strategy, but I also expect the ruling party and the government to show more political will that this strategy is implemented and in practice because we can make strategies every day, and life can be like this or that, and we decide whether we will implement these strategies ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10977	Thank you very much for your esteemed representative. We have one application to correct the incorrect allegations, colleague Markovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10978	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here's how much perception can be incorrect and untrustworthy proves exactly how much fellow Maras who incorrectly claims that there are countries without corruption. I don't think there are any such countries in stories, and we'll remember more children's stories, there's also in countries, kingdoms of everything and everything, so I think you can be sure of that. You said we were closer to the countries of total corruption than the countries without corruption. The country without corruption unfortunately does not exist. ... No, no, you didn't say no to a corruption colleague. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] There's no regrets.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10979	Okay. We need a meter to measure it, and then we'll find it easy. It's next, the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10980	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The responsibility of public officials in civilised countries is a rule, and mistakes in their private lives are not measured in the same way as other citizens. In the 16th century, the Jesuits claimed, the corruption of the best mountains is of all. Corruption is hard to obtain evidence, so many corruption affairs in the West were resolved by the court of the public even when there was not enough solid evidence. There is moral responsibility in politics and the court of the public even when there is no criminal responsibility. US President Nixon resigned because of what two journalists published resulting in an investigation and although he did not plead guilty, he paid a political price. British Colombia's prime minister ended up in prison even though he was eventually released from corruption charges, paid for the affair with the resignation and end of his political career. In the Czech Republic, the prime minister recently resigned during media and public pressure because he failed to explain where he got the money for the apartment he bought when he was not yet prime minister. Free citizens must have the guarantee that whoever has their money and prescribes them is not corrupt, and politicians should be obliged to provide citizens with all the information. It's still not like that with us. I'll look back at the fifth point of this strategy, preventing corruption. Namely this chapter is quite well worked out because the points listed some of the area, and what's interesting is that my impression, I say, is that in these areas it's taken a step back from the previous situation. First, preventing conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties. We have witnessed amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest which have achieved two very important things. The disabled work of the Commission to prevent conflicts of interest for eight to nine months and the ruling majority put the commission completely under their control. The second item is the financing of political parties. I'll remind you, the cost of funding the 2007 pre-election campaign that the parties declared. HDZ 19.5 million kuna, SDP 15.8, HNS 9, HSS HSLS PGS 8 coalition, HSP 7 to 8, HSU 2.5 million kuna. According to GONG and Transparency International estimates, the costs of all parties correspond to the declared funds are allocated only one, the one with the highest costs, HDZ. According to the assessment, HDZ spent around 50% of the total cost on media promotion alone, 25.5 million kuna, and according to them, the total cost should then be between 45 and 50 million kuna. The SDP spent 8 million on media promotion according to the estimate, HSLS HSLS PGS 4.9 and HNS 4.2. So it is clear that HDZ has spent more on the cost of the media campaign alone than it has declared for the entire campaign, and I will remind you once again, so according to their estimates, the media campaign is about 40-60% of the total cost. An even better example was the case from the 2005 presidential elections in Croatia, where one of the candidates officially reported the amount of campaign costs, and the question of sources of funding answered that it was financed by the party. Which party? Of course. Not only that, only those first two points show how many ruling parties, i.e. the ruling coalition, in alleged signs of damage to this issue, and therefore do not need to be surprised when citizens and political parties consider the most corrupt part of society. And the current largest ruling party is considered more unfair than the main opposition party by at least one of the party leaders who make up the ruling coalition. It's public on TV in the campaign, and you don't need to be surprised, I think that perception is correct. The only problem, then, is that honesty, which is the most important weapon of fighting corruption, is not the head criterion for selecting those with whom you will behave. However, I hoped that this awareness, that those with whom they went, were not the most honest or fair interpretation, would be less fair than others, would make it impossible to pass such laws as the one about preventing conflicts of interest. But instead, it seems that the HSS colleagues have crossed this virus so they're going to overrun the HDZ model without a choice, such as the Varazdin County or the Long Village, for example, where the joint SDP HSS list in the election received a semi-half majority in the council. So their responsibility is even greater. They knew, they said publicly they knew what these others were like and they let them pass laws like this again. It seems to me that this strategy has been written by someone who is in deep conflict with the current practice of HDZ authorities and I am afraid that the representatives of the government sitting there are not being punished because they are proposing something that is exactly the opposite of what has been done so far. The word strategy comes from the ancient Greek word "strategos" and literally means leading an army. This meaning of time has been lost and is used to mark action aimed at achieving a specific objective after longer planning. There is too long planned, and to settle disputes even longer than too long and there is a circle closed. The offender is quick, the judiciary is slow, the perpetrators are protected, witnesses who should be protected are discovered, and all of us, while we are with the witness together, are witnessing another piece of paper from which obviously there will be no harm, but neither is too much benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10981	Thank you very much. Further discussion is followed by the application of the distinguished representative Susana Bilić Vardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10982	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen of the State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here I have come forward for this debate because I have been listening all afternoon and I want to express my position, and I will say at first that I support the proposal for a strategy to combat corruption that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has delivered to the Croatian Parliament for discussion and adoption because the Republic of Croatia and this document are aware of the seriousness of the problem of corruption and is determined to continue to strengthen its efforts to combat corruption. This strategy is based on the experience gained in implementing previous national anti-corruption programmes, according to the 2006/2008 programme. A year. And I don't want my fellow colleagues and colleagues in the opposition and I don't intend to challenge or let God take away the right to dissatisfaction, expressed dissatisfaction with the effects of the implementation of this national programme so far, but you have no right to say and all afternoon we've been listening here, that nothing has been done, that nothing has been achieved and that there is no political will. And now at this point, I'm just going to look back on what we heard in the debate, which is that the Croatian public has no insight and can't follow this debate. Professor Hebrang said that the media, the journalists, are here and that their media will report tomorrow if journalists do their job. But to my colleagues and to the left of this assembly, I have long wanted to say that there is a channel on Max TV called Assembly TV and that all users of Max TV services are able to watch us here for 24 hours, or not 24 hours, but all the time we spend here and that in this way, the Croatian public is not excluded to this extent. We heard here today, and I will not keep repeating this finding of the index, Croatia 4.1, which marks a shift in the repression of corruption in the Republic of Croatia, because it is the fact that this is the highest grade so far. I do not wish to compare the Republic of Croatia with a member of the European Union, which is the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as not to comment on Turkey, but what is a fact, it is a fact and should not be disputed that all of this that is above 3 on a scale of 1 to 10 is positive, that Croatia should also be assessed in this regard. Our opposition cannot recognise to the Government nor what the European Commission acknowledges to us in the report that has been quoted here, and that is, I will also tell you with the material on page 19 of this document, in the chapter of criminal persecution and the application of criminal law. Under b) objectives, point 1. says that with greater attention it is necessary to insist on detecting and persecuting high-level corruption, that is, on what is quoted today from the findings, i.e. from the European Commission's report. If nothing had been done so far, I would not have agreed, because all of us, here we are in this 6th term, i.e. the Assembly's assembly took part in the adoption of some of the laws that I wish to confirm that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has done in the past period, and now and in the future it intends to do so. Today there was a talk about the Public Procurement Act. The public procurement law was passed in 2001, changes and additions were made in 2005. In 2007, the last meeting was brought into line with the Law on Public Procurement with the acquiss of the European Union and has been in force since 1 January 2008. Today we have had the opportunity to hear from the Vice-President of the Government that this law, too, is already being prepared to amend and supplement this law. All laws that have been passed in recent years have been built on to protect whistles. Then the Law on Personal Identification Number, which we also recently brought in, says that it could have been brought in before. I agree because what today, that is, when the time comes to be a personal identification number, could also be a unique number of citizens, but it is certain that the personal identification number is one of the instruments in the fight against corruption and crime in Croatia and when the time comes I think that all the benefits will be shown for all the other reasons why it has been brought and the benefits of Croatian society. Someone here has said nicely today that the adoption of this document requires a national consensus and it would be nice to bring it together, and it is equally stated that the adoption of the strategy is the first and easiest step. Dear colleagues and colleagues, it seems to me that if I count well from 15 and 15, now it's 20 and 56 and we don't know how long it'll take. It might be more convenient to work on the implementation of all those measures, and to follow the implementation of all the measures from the action plans of the ministries and the realization of what is in the strategy, rather than tonight pulling each other's affairs out of the past even regretting that we can't, how the Croatian public can't follow it. Corruption is not a new problem, it was not created yesterday and it will not and cannot be resolved overnight, and that is why strategies and action plans are needed, and political will and common national consensus for Croatian society and the Croatian state to resist the modern-day monster. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10983	Thank you very much. We've registered three replicas. First, my colleague Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10984	Thank you. I would replicate my colleague, and it would have been very bad if I had played a breach of the Rules of Procedure, because I think that favouring Max TV as a service of Croatian telecoms in the transfer of parliamentary sessions is not exactly correct and I hope that this is not an introduction to tomorrow's debate on the Law on Electronic Communications, which is good at HT mill. And I would also have to report that I'm a little bit in conflict of interest, because I'm a small HT shareholder, I don't have a commission to report to, and then I'm just going to say that I wouldn't be told afterwards, and then it would be a little bit more correct to say that this session is being transmitted by the Croatian Parliament on its website of parliamentary television, and what HT is doing for its commercial service, I don't think we should mention it further in the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10985	Thank you, colleagues, Bauku. Replica reply, distinguished representative Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10986	Thank you very much. I appreciate this observation, and I'm glad you told the Assembly television that it is available to the Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10987	Thank you very much. Željko Jovanovic, a respected colleague. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10988	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to replicate to my colleague, to point out once again that this grade 4.1 really doesn't have to satisfy us. If 3 is a passing grade of what fellow Hebrang said, let's say 3 has Mongolia, Lebanon, Panama. 3.3 has Bosnia or Serbia, and Slovenia has a score of 6.6 in 27 places. Therefore, it is a rating where we will be able to be satisfied, and ideal countries are Denmark, Finland, New Zealand 9.4. Therefore, why would we consider that grade four to be fleeting? I say she's not passing and we can't be happy with her.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10989	Thank you very much. Replicate response, Your Honor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10990	Thank you very much. My colleague Jovanovic, I thought today I was already correcting someone's incorrect quote, my colleague Jurjevic, to be exact, when I said we didn't, and I'm going to repeat it to you now. We are not satisfied with the 4.1 rating, but just to remind you at the time of your government that assessment was below 3, and I will repeat what I said when I corrected my colleague Jurjevic that we were satisfied then we would not revise the National Strategy for the Prevention of Corruption and we would not go with new measures and do and take everything we are doing. So we're not happy with this grade and we're doing everything for here for, here in the Parliament and together with you colleagues to improve this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10991	Thank you very much. And the third application for the replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10992	Here's the first thing I'm going to say is that this is the incorrect data you said, during our government, it wasn't below three grades. The biggest jump ever in that evaluation was in 1999 to 2000. It means when your government left and our government came. So that's one record when we jumped 1 point I don't know how much on 3 or something. And the other thing when we talk about it... I said that it would probably have been if it hadn't been for the HDZ actions of Karlovac, Sisak, Sinj and we've seen these last days Varazdin would probably have been much higher and she would have made us much... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it puts us much closer to 0 at 10 borders of total corruption than without the corruption as I said in my presentation. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And as far as I'm concerned, you mentioned public procurement. How much we demonstrate political will so that this segment of state spending or state money of the ministries, companies owned by the state, is being controlled by the fact that this institution that we have the Commission to control public procurement does not even employ all the people who have predicted systematicisation. So the state didn't give her the money to hire all the people who covered the systematicization within that of their own, and their own service. And that institution spends a letter and a number of 5 million kunas and controls a procedure worth 44 billion kunas. And out of these 5 million kunas, 50% cost covers from their own taxi revenues and various different fees that they are revenueing from. So show the political will that this commission can function normally. Hire all the people they predicted or even add even more resources next year to make this public procurement control as efficient as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10993	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Susana Bilić-Vardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10994	Thank you very much. I don't want you guys now, so this is the answer to your line, so I'm not going to fix it. What you said to control the implementation of public procurement procedures or offices, that office was planned for 5 million and 400 thousand kunas, therefore the annual budget from which they spent 4 million and 900 thousand kuna, so the question is why they did not spend what was planned or what was granted to them. And in this second part, when you were correcting that I incorrectly cited when it was the highest or greatest jump since 2000, it was 1999. ... Because the period has always been observed for the previous year. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's it, thank you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10995	Thank you very much. We're going one step further. Dear representative Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10996	Thank you very much. Honored Mr. Vice President, the honorable representatives of the government, the honored few colleagues and fellow MPs. I have no doubt about whether this strategy should be supported. I will personally support her. However, one of my predecessors said that the strategy that we are bringing is evidence of how seriously we approach this problem and that it is proof of our will that we are seriously dealing with one of the biggest problems of modern democratic and civilised society. And I have to say, I don't agree with that. Why? I won't say it's simple, it's easy to write one strategy. Of course, it should be written. You need to understand the problem. But I'll say it's the first and easiest step in fighting corruption. And there's a lot of evidence to support that not enough strategy just to write and that doesn't mean that we're serious and that there's a political will to solve a particular problem. Here's to making it more clear to you what it means to bring a strategy and stay on it. Do we have a national strategy to fight addiction? We do. But are we really going to a serious fight against drugs among young people? We didn't. Do we have a national strategy to protect against domestic violence? We do. And is this problem ever more present in this country? Yes, it is. Do we have a problem or do we have a strategy for people with disabilities? We got that, too. And is it true that we have environments where people with disabilities are not provided with the basic needs of life? Yes, it is. What was I gonna say? A strategy for itself, a strategy that is not implemented not only is it not a powerful weapon in the fight against corruption, as Prime Minister Sanader called it today or these days, but is indeed a dead letter on paper that neither means nor is worth anything. What's worrying is the fact that the public doesn't trust us either. The media don't trust us. In fact, no one believes that we will really be concrete, that we will do something concrete about corruption. And that's certainly not a good sign. And counterpart Lesar said that one of the 4 goals in fighting corruption is to develop the anti-corruption consciousness of society as a whole. I do wonder in what way or how and what we will do it? How did the media welcome a debate on this important problem for me? The media say if experience is the best teacher it's not hard to predict fate and this strategy. She'll be read by journalists for a few days and she'll write some texts. State officials will show their sinceres, under quotes, commitment after which the strategy will fall into oblivion. It is important that we put it on paper, that we have met one of the criteria set by the European Union before us. I really hope it doesn't end up like that because if it did, it wouldn't be good. So the public is tired of strategies. We have many and many, and it would not be good if this one remained a dead letter on paper and it would not be good if we just did it for the European pat on the Croatian shoulder. It is a sad fact, and we really have to worry about it that corruption in this country is simply a modus vivendi. If it had become a way of life, it had become a way of thinking, it unfortunately became a way of doing business, and we have led the average man in this country to consider normal, indeed normal, that a cardiologist decides who he will operate on and on whom he will extend his life only and solely on the basis of who gives more. It's particularly frightening that I've not heard one excuse for this in a civilized world of unacceptable behavior and people are put in defense of those who take bribes, especially doctors, and that's unacceptable. It tells us where we are, it tells us how deep we actually sank as a society, I'd say in general. That actually tells us something else, and I absolutely agree with my colleague Lek, there's no state where corruption is possible, and politics doesn't tolerate it. There is no state or society in which corruption, if there is no one at the top of the government. And the examples from our further and closer history are progress. That's what my colleague was talking about, and I have no intention of repeating it. It is clear to us that even the slightest suspicion of corruption and extremely dangerous because it calls into question the credibility of every government and every policy. I disagree with my colleague, Roksandic, that there is no corruption in health care, there is no corruption in school, there is no corruption in science. Corruption has actually taken hold of all segments of society, including, unfortunately, the academic community that I belong to myself. And I'm sorry, of course, to have to say that. Not only does corruption exist in the academic world, but it seems dangerous in this country to talk about it. Risk as a professor at the University of Zagreb Medical School to make you crazy and recommend psychiatric skill. Unfortunately, that's the way it is. There is no dilemma that corruption, and, of course, we all agree on the basis of social relations, democratic civilised and civil society. It makes public institutions and the rule of law disappear, in the justice of the system, in the equality of the citizens of this country, if you want the security of the citizens of this country. We really need to take her seriously. I want to believe, I believe that this strategy, the first step important, not only if we don't do so, so if we don't approach it seriously, then we really support the threat of stability and trust in institutions and feed the dissatisfaction of citizens who are growing and bigger every day, sharpening and social differences and sending a message that it is possible to live well, but unfairly, that it is desirable. We also hinder the development of a healthy entrepreneurial climate and stop the development of a healthy political climate and our responsibility as a politician, whether we are in power, and if we are in power, then we have to admit it, but the rest of us are huge. And that is why we need to seriously and politically judge corruption and seriously ethically and continuously against it socially, to act responsibly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10997	Thank you very much. We have two applications to correct the incorrect allegations. First respected representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10998	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Members, I didn't say as categorically as you tried to interpret my allegations that there was no corruption in education and health care. I didn't say that, I said it was the most sensitive parts of society. Something we're all sensitive to. Well, most often we're just pointing out those remarks, and that's why teachers and doctors are always on the clock, I'd tell the public when it comes to corruption. I was the only one who stood by the integrity of this profession because I believe that as a professor, and by respecting my fellow doctors, why do we always stand out? Because it's the most sensitive part. And I didn't say it wasn't there.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u10999	Thank you very much. Then the correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u11000	Thank you very much. I wouldn't like to correct your colleagues, but here's to the record and the future. You said that a professor of medical school was referred to psychiatric art because he was showing corruption. It's a lie. It's a political manipulation of a man because he wants to report corruption, then he knows where to go with the application. He has so far sent over a hundred different letters to individual bodies, media, etc., and not a single letter to the state's attorney's office. Send that one, if he thinks there's corruption and don't use politics for his personal promotion.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u11001	Thank you very much. We have a report of a replica, a distinguished representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u11002	Thank you very much. Here's the information that works. When we talk about corruption in health care, the assessment of an NGO that handled this problem is that 3 billion kunas are spent in Croatia annually in this segment. 18% of citizens are, by some estimates, involved in the corruption process, or in some way, doctors are either a gift or something donated, so we can't say there's absolutely no corruption in health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u11003	Thank you very much. There's no answer. Okay. Let's move on. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic. He's gone. He's losing his right. Then the distinguished representative Rajko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u11004	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. This hour is 8 plus 12, 12 clear in the SDP of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, of which 4 plus 1.4 are health workers in SDP, 1 on the other side of the respected home, so I will start by telling the medical dictionary what is corruption. It's corruption, kill cancer. A dangerous malignancies that eats, destroys the three basics of every country. And three basics of every country's morale, which was well spoken of by fellow Bauk, culture and tradition. Moral, culture and tradition. And fellow Maras that I support him and ask you, Mr. Vice President, to accept his proposal, to support our two members in the Presidency of the Parliament, that as soon as possible, the sooner we can form these committees in conflict of interest, on the one hand. On the other hand, that this important topic is discussed in a public, responsible, transparent way, not only using cable TV, the ladies of distinguished Bilić Vardic are not there, so they can't replicate it, they're probably following us on the Internet. On the other hand, I also support the fact and the statement by my friend Gordan Maras that by the index of corruption score 4.1 absolutely, we absolutely must be dissatisfied, I am very, very dissatisfied. Statistics are essentially inexorable. 4.1 is not good, as there are only 20 of us here, and we're talking about a more important topic, on one side if we've made progress in corruption, then put it in, and I apologize for speaking English or the most visible shows, put it on tomorrow. Tell all those responsible for this tell the citizens of Croatia, we made 1.2.3. You're boasting. I am for it, boast and give us hope, give us hope that in these three specifics, morals, culture and tradition there is a chance for us. I hope he does, and I'm sure he does, because without morality, culture and tradition, there's no society. Statistics are inexorable, Mr. Maras made it very clear that he was leaving before '99. The year was zero-0.9, 1% was minus one, not plus, minus one fellow Maras. That's amazing. We didn't produce anything in 1999. It's a statistic. It's statistics, such as statistics that inflation last month was 6.4. We can love it, we can love it, but it's a fact. It's a fact like Mr. Vice President's perception, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Perception is for a public person, I'm a public person, a fact. The perception of Transparency International or European Union chapter 23 that we stand well with corruption is for me as a parliamentary representative the fact that we must fight. It's perception, but that's how they judge 192 countries around the world and that it. It's statistics. And it's not good. It's not good to argue like this, to go back to the past. If I were bad, you know I wasn't bad, I'd easily go back in time, so let's look into the future. Bauk said great strategist, took us to ancient Greece, Rome. Today it's called mission and vision. The mission is that we are? Doctors. Representatives at the Croatian Parliament. What's our mission? To speak publicly, responsibly, transparently, respect morality, culture and tradition, but vision is essentially a strategy. Where are we going, colleague Bauk? It's a strategy, a vision. Because they wrote paper to the secretary of state, but there's no action plan or there's one in some segments. It's a vision. Chapter 23, the European Union, but how, with whom, in which way to move according to the score of 6.6 or higher, I would like to see it. There are four types of corruption in medicine. The worst and worst bottom is the doctor's attitude. It's the bottom of the bottom, it needs to be sanctioned, detected and properly punished. It's the other one's equipment. It is necessary to implement the Law on Equipment. In the past term, a beautiful Dalmatian town had three ministers. They bought them the most sophisticated equipment in that medical center, the hospital, I won't name it, which stands unused. Why? Because he doesn't have enough citizens. We have great doctors in that place, but there are not enough citizens who can use that equipment. As we all have cell phones, but we rarely use phone calls only, and we pay them, especially our children and grandchildren, to pay them extra. They bought it and it's corruption and that's why in the review of public procurement it's 10% in the revision remarks on being on health care. The other is the pharmaceutical industry. The pharmaceutical industry is in crisis globally speaking and making a strong attack on doctors. That's where we have to resist. That's the second type of corruption, and that's why organized countries do clinical guidelines, work constables, work on diagnostics, work on therapy, all that needs to be done by an orderly state. The third type of corruption is academic corruption that Mrs. Jerkovic spoke of. Academia corruption is a whole leprechaun, a la card, first specialization. One perfiduous way of academic corruption is to create a monopoly in some specializations and specializations. You know, one doctor or two or three, and how colleagues Bonačić, both in dentistry and medicine, I or 5 hand us over to others to go, don't let young people go to school, then when we manage to give them specialization then they tell us but I'm alone, I can't be a mentor. I can only be a mentor once. Perfided academic corruption, that we are not talking about progress among other things in different academics, and that is why we should respect the principle of 4K, competition, competence, quality and competence as other regulated countries. Only a certain two Ks, which is competition and competence can give birth to the other two Ks, can give birth to quality and competent medical workers. They can create high-quality and competent politicians, public people who will openly, responsible in the right time, at any time defend their position. It seems to me that these four Ks in a series of social segments of our society, unfortunately, do not exist. And ultimately human resources. We can build great hospitals, great health homes, nothing if we don't have people. These can be temples, these hospitals to look like temples, like museums. Here's an example of a great Dalmatian paper that had three ministers, they have extraordinary equipment, but there are no simple people. No investments in people, in medics, in our great nurses, dentists, nurses, biochemists, there's no progress. Also in the last term, we have witnessed that a prominent member of the government has completed two jobs at the university in two months. It's amazing he's working at three universities right now. Great. Unbelievable. I'm a university professor, so I know how this 4K exists. Mr. Vice President knows that because we talked about it on a number of occasions, competition, competences give birth to quality. And finally, the line of learning is long lasting in corruption. With us, this line... It takes too long and I am deeply, deeply concerned, by the first response of us MPs, MPs and MPs to respect gender equality and arguments that this is transmitted via the Internet. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think we got off to a bad start on this session. I hope we can revive the action plan. Please form the Committee for Conflict of Interest and let us start introducing and become at least the following years as better and better, or worse, but better grades on the corruption index. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u11005	Thank you, Doctor. Furthermore, it is up to the honorary representative Vladimir Šišljagic to report. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. Dear Representative Ranko Ostojić. He's gone. He loses his right to argue. And with that, we've exhausted individual applications. We have a five-minute address on behalf of the club, distinguished representative Zeljko Jovanovic on behalf of the SDP club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u11006	Dear Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here's what I'd like to say at first on behalf of the club, but also my personal name, is one of the most common frustrations I've experienced since I was a parliamentary representative is the absence of dialogue. It's very rare that we talk, because when we talk, then we listen to what he says and try to accept some better solutions than we might have at first. We rarely only have monologues, monologues, monologues of the ruling coalition here, and most often we talk when we fight, and they'll agree that there's no solution from the fight. And I wonder when the day will come that in this House of Decisions we make are decisions that arise as a consequence of the force of arguments, not the arguments of the power of the majority in the Parliament. Perhaps this debate today will lead to the strategy being adopted in this way. Is that going to be so we'll see if any of the remarks that we've been making here are in a good mood to fix the strategy, because we've read that strategy, we've tried to offer a solution that will allow the anti-corruption strategy to be better than it was the moment it entered the assembly. We have the opportunity to show at the highest political level as a Parliament that the fight against corruption is one of our most important tasks. At first, I said the strategy was just a framework and there were no pictures in it. I think it's a mistake that we didn't get an action plan here, because surely part of the debate would have been directed differently. But that's how the promoter decided, and there's nothing that can change. Two words on the National Anti-Corruption Council. I consider it not because I am leading it but because of the members who are in it, that we have shown these several sessions that we have both the will and the strength to really be a parliamentary body that will monitor whether the strategy and the action plan are realized, and if they do not come to terms with offering solutions to do so in a better way. I therefore propose, on behalf of the club, that both the strategy and the action plan explicitly state that this body will become a permanent parliamentary body with all the powers that these bodies have. Finally, the SDP club calls upon all parliamentary representatives and political parties to show with national consensus the readiness of this temple of democracy in Croatia, that we will oppose organised crime and corruption. And again I say it's going to be the first step, the easiest step, they're after that much harder. And the first step towards this national consensus will be to be part of our remarks not to be too optimistic, to be very respectful, but hopefully part of what we've been talking about will be accepted by the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u11007	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Šišljagic. He's gone. He's losing his right. And with this, we've exhausted the debate on behalf of the clubs. State Secretary Drazen Bošnjaković appeared on behalf of the proponent for the word. Here you go, secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u11008	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, here we are listening to this debate, we have recorded your suggestions, your remarks. We did not enter the debate itself into any dialogue, because simply the debate had one good rhythm, one good dynamic, a whole series of good ideas, good thoughts were said here, and in any case it would be incorporated into the action plan. What was one of the doubts why not the strategy and action plan together, simply the strategy is adopted by the Croatian Parliament, and the action plan is adopted by the Croatian government as an implementing document. The Croatian Government will be able to change it much faster and much more efficiently, because it is simpler and the procedure. What I feel from this debate that it will be, that our strategy will be supported and that's what I'm glad that we will, I believe this Parliament will show one unity in the adoption of this document. The document has all the basic elements that should have, the basic principles, the basic objectives gave a review in each segment, about said and the main ways to move in that fight, and I think this is a very good framework. I agree with all those who have said that I am this document will mean nothing to myself without implementation, without concrete action. What is said and expressed as a doubt, is there a political will for this difficult and long-term match against corruption. There are certain doubts that it doesn't exist, that it's just a document like this. I must say a truly strong political will exists to win that game, to achieve even better results. I have to say the coefficient itself as a coefficient doesn't mean too much to us, we're not satisfied with 4.1 we want and more. Of course we want more. What's significant, you see, we still raised 34% of the convictions of the crimes that contain corruption. It's an important step, it's an important result and that's what it's just saying about our political will. But not only that, in recent years they've echoed in public, they've echoed the actions that our BOOK has spent, which you've been talking about today. Many of you said you haven't talked about it in a year. We all need to know, and we all know that the crimes of corruption are very complex crimes, they're hard to prove, they're very difficult procedures. But what's great plus and what's positive for all of these procedures in progress is they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, After that, many things are no longer the same in Croatia as they were yesterday. They have a profound impact on perception, but what is more important is behavior. Trust me after "Maestra", after "Gruntovna", after "Diagnosis" will be difficult for officials, officials will decide to enter such arrangements as before. But it's only one step in this tough game. There are, Mr. Representative Ostojić said, I like that partnership that corruption is like cancer. It's true. However, we have chemotherapy for this game, and these are reforms because who is the fertile soil for corruption? The fertile soil for corruption is a mess. It's a situation where institutions don't work, when the rule of law doesn't work. And now, colleagues, let me ask you, is Croatia a mess? Is our system a system that rests on malfunctioning? I don't think we can say that. There's a lot of room in all segments to go forward and it's really true, but our system works. And what is still very important for this political will and the strength and will that the Croatian government is expressing. We are changing the system in a way that we are constantly implementing reforms. Let's not forget we're still a country in transition. Transition is one difficult period where we change the system, where we change institutions, where we change our consciousness. We're still in this process. And just a few days ago, Minister Schuker of the World Bank received the award as the most successful country in implementing reforms from all transition countries in Europe and others in the world behind Egypt. E reform is what brings order into our system, and order in our system means chemotherapy against this severe disease. And I believe together we're going to do this as the president of the National Council has said that together we're really going to get even better results in the next period. Thank you all for the discussion. Thank you all for the good suggestions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u11009	Thank you very much to the secretary of state, and in the end, this surely and responsible and serious and very high-quality debate has just been doctorally explained. So that's how we end up detecting the type of disease. That we've also determined therapy in some way but to get better and to drink you know the pills. That's what we say in Podravina. And that's why I'm gonna bring this thing to an end tonight. We'll vote when the conditions are met, because Luke would say so. And we'll continue work tomorrow at 9:30. Have a nice evening and good night! On the agenda we voted today. [[Intruder: On the agenda, according to the agenda.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-17-0.u11010	We move on to the Proposal for a Strategy to combat corruption. The debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for a strategy to combat corruption. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that the majority of the 84 vote is in favour and one abstention is in favour of the proposal for a strategy to combat corruption. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, good morning, everyone, we're moving on. We continue to work and move on to the agenda point: 2. Proposal for a law on electronic communications, with the Final Bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 96; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia; emergency procedure shall apply in accordance with Article 161. Rules of Procedure, you've received the motion for an act into the boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications, the Committee on Information, Information and Media, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, Mr Drazen Breglec. Here you go.
