ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-28-0.u5824	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Before you is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Relations with the Final Proposal of the Law. As you know, the Law on Mandatory Relations was passed in February 2005. It took effect on 1.1.2006. So it's been in use for over two years. In these two years we have seen that certain things simply need to be amended in this law and these amendments that we are proposing today are one alignment with the European Union directives, because what we did most of the text in 2000, most of the matter is in line with the European Union directives. However, in the analysis, in the screening of the harmonisation of our legal system with the acquiss of the European Union, certain things need to be improved and this needs to be improved in particular with directives in the area of consumer protection. It is also necessary to improve certain things related to bank guarantees, for guarantees. Also, certain improvements are needed regarding those travel contracts, a package of arrangements. Then, in this law, we better define the concept of a manufacturer in terms of provisions for material disadvantages and guarantees for the correctness of the sold thing. It is also prescribed that the seller is also responsible for minor material defects. But in that case, the customer does not have the right to terminate the contract but rather to those other rights of liability for material disadvantages such as repairing things, replacing things and lowering prices. We prescribe the right of the customer to terminate the contract or to reduce prices in a proportionate manner in the event that, in a way of removing the deficiencies, that is to say, the handover of the other thing without any deficiency would result in significant inconvenience for the buyer. The provisions on the guarantee of the correctness of the sold matter are harmonised with those Directives in such a way that the guarantee can be granted by both the seller and the manufacturer by prescribing the rights which the buyer can exercise and that the guarantee is binding regardless of the form in which it is given. We also remove minor discrepancies arising from the harmonisation of the Law on Mandatory Relations with the provisions of the Council Directive of 25 July 1985 on the harmonisation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to liability for invalid products and Council Directives of 13 June 1990 on the package of travel, package of holidays and the package of tours where we specify exactly what such contracts should contain. Therefore, it is also specified to which persons are subject to a three-year limitation period for mutual claims on the transport of goods and services. We explain the assumptions under which the silence of a person whose business activity is considered to be a reception of the offer. That's if those people are in a longer business relationship. We also prescribe that the provisions on the limitation of the duration of the purchase right do not apply to the right of first purchases from commercial contracts and to the right of first shares, business shares and shares in society. We further clarify and edit the provisions of the construction contract with the provision of the key in hand. As is known, this proposal will enable the key to the hand to contain those design provisions, not only on construction. We are amending the provisions on credentials and banking guarantees by fully harmonising these amendments with European Union directives. We therefore propose that the Croatian Parliament accept this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-28-0.u5825	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-28-0.u5826	Dear Mr. President, honourable government representatives, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The Law on Mandatory Relations, which entered into force on 1 January 2006, regulates the basics of mandatory relations and contractual and non-contractual mandatory relations, and one of the reasons for its adoption was the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the acquis of the European Union in this legal area. After an analytical examination of the so-called the screening of Chapter 28 consumer and health protection and conformity assessment and legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union has identified the need for further harmonisation on certain aspects of consumer sales and follow-up guarantees. In addition, minor disagreements of the Law on Mandatory Relations with the two other consumer directives have been observed, and for the sake of clarity of the rules, the need to remove these differences has also been seen. Further reason for the adoption of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Relations and the improvement of those provisions of the existing law to which it also referred legal science and practice during its two-year application. Despite the observed need to amend and supplement the Law on Mandatory Relations, the existing law is, in the opinion of experts, one of the most qualitative laws in the Republic of Croatia. And the proposed amendments and additions will also remove the least ambiguities that have arisen from the existing law, thereby surely the Law on Mandatory Relations will become an example of a quality law fully in line with the legislation of the European Union. The relevant Law on Mandatory Relations does not define a person of public law, does not lay down criteria for the determination of the circle of these persons, nor does it refer to any other regulation relating to which the question of the application of the provisions of this law contained in this concept has been raised. Therefore, the proposed Act amending and supplementing the Law on Mandatory Relations of the new paragraph 6 of Article 26 lays down a set of public rights persons in such a way that they are obliged to comply with public procurement rules. The proposed law defines the concept of the manufacturer more precisely from the area of sales of goods of general consumption and the accompanying guarantees in such a way as to add paragraph 3 in Article 401 of the existing law explaining who the manufacturer is in terms of liability for material deficiencies and guarantees for the correctness of the sold matter. This more precise proposed definition is considered by the manufacturer to be both the importer of things and any other person representing himself as a manufacturer by putting his name or name, mark or other mark on the matter. The proposed law prescribes greater liability for sellers as it provides that the seller is also responsible for minor material disadvantages, but in that case the customer does not have the right to terminate the contract but rather to fix things, replace things or lower the price. In particular, it is necessary to highlight the amendment to Article 400 of the existing law which deletes paragraph 4 that the seller is not responsible for minor damage, which fully fulfils Article 3. The Law on Mandatory Relations, which stipulates that participants in mandatory relations are equal, while at the same time abolishing the space for possible manipulation and creative freedom of interpretation of minor damages. In particular, the proposed law changes the part relating to the concept of accreditation and deletes as much as 9 from the existing 11 articles, and the remaining two are completely changed. Thus, Article 1028 of the new text clarifies and separates the terms and circumstances of the opening of the accreditation payment, and this was necessary since the opening of the bank's accreditation obligations to the employer and the payment of the bank's accreditation obligations to the user of the accreditation. This amendment, which actually provides for the final abolition of the concept of irrevocable credentials, has created a more secure legal environment especially in international business, since in current business practice the opening of recalled credentials has often led to misunderstandings. The proposed amendment to Article 1029, which provides that, if the contracting parties did not provide for something else, they apply a uniform criterion and practice published by the International Chamber of Commerce in Paris which is in force on the day of the opening of the accreditation. Such a legal solution is excellent, as the rules published by the International Chamber of Commerce in Paris often change and the transposition of their solutions in national legislation would lead to the fact that what is prescribed by law does not meet these rules or international practices and thus avoids frequent changes in the legal provisions. The proposed law also amends Articles 1039 to 1043 which refer to the bank guarantee, as it found that the bank guarantee is the wrong name for the bank guarantee which led to uncertainty in practice because it is different legal institutes which differ in terms of the effect and method of application. In addition, the current regulation of the bank guarantee is partly not in line with the generally accepted international practice. Therefore, the proposed amendments seek to address these shortcomings, while at the same time particularly regulating the terms of the bank guarantee, the guarantees on call, guarantees, counter-guarantees, the termination of the guarantee and the transfer of payment entitlements from the guarantee. The proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Relations is certainly a quality step because it and the Croatian legislation are in line with the acquis of the European Union, but it is given a clearer, more specific and quality legal framework for business activities of economic operators, especially in the area of banking business, and improves the position of customers of consumer goods of broad consumption in respect of supplementary guarantees as well as in the case of minor deficiencies in the purchase of goods. For this reason, the HDZ Club supports this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Relations and the Croatian Democratic Community will vote in favour of its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-28-0.u5827	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-28-0.u5828	Thank you very much. Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I really think that this is a very important law, the Law on Mandatory Relations, and that the proposed amendments are very important, not only important but also high-quality, and that it deserves the attention of our parliamentary representatives not only to support themselves, but also to comment on certain provisions of the Law on Mandatory Relations and Discuss. Therefore, this regulation should be absolutely supported and for reasons that the respected counterpart Maric has already pointed out on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, therefore also because the provisions of the Law on Mandatory Relations with European Standards are in line with the regulations of the relevant directives and with the legal practice already present in the field of mandatory relations in the European Union. But it should also be said that this law of the institution that is working on them, it really works in a quality way, they explain themselves, they are more precise and will certainly contribute to an even greater quality of the regulation itself in general, so when we talk about the Law of Mandatory Relations. Dear colleagues and colleagues allow me to refer to several concrete legal institutes that we find in this bill after this opening support or support. Namely, this bill, in a different way or in a new way, discusses the limitations of the duration of the purchase right, then the provisions of the contract on construction with a provision or clause key in hand, then the deadlines for mutual demand in the transport of goods and services, and of course, I believe that there is a need to comment on and analyse and the institute which also touches these amendments and the additions of the law, which refers to the responsibility of the seller and to the minor, I repeat the minor material disadvantages of the sold matter. As regards this first institute, therefore, the duration of the first purchase right, of course until now it has been governed by the provision of Article 453. The law on mandatory relations, which literally discusses this matter in a way that the first law ceases after five years from the conclusion of the contract if it is not agreed to stop before, and of course the agreed longer period is reduced to five years. This institution, as a specific institution of compulsory law, of course which must be included or contracted in a written form of this amendment, would not apply to the right of first purchase from commercial contracts relating to shares or the turnover of shares or business shares in companies. Here is precisely the quality of this proposed amendment in that, in fact, in the present and basis of the Law on Mandatory Relations, there is a link between the security of the investment of certain companies and all those projects drawn up under certain companies in a certain sense are indirectly supported by these amendments and amendments to the law. And that is exactly where I recognize the quality of these exposed changes in this sense and not only is this institute governed by the regulations of the European Union. Furthermore, the provisions of the construction contract with the provision of the key in hand. We all know what a contract to build with a provision is a key to your hand. It is broadly present in our legal practice, but with all its specificities, this amendment allows the design or project documentation within the framework of the construction of certain buildings to be included in the construction contract itself. In my opinion, this is a step forward, a quality step in terms of the arrangement of this institute. For what? Not only will this specific construction contract now be able to include the entire investment in this building sense, but the possibility of inclusion and project documentation will be achieved at least two things, which is the first thing that complete investment will be, in a certain sense, surrounded by one side. On the other hand, the appropriate project documentation is the basis or foothold that, in the sense of carrying out construction works in any particular situation, it is in the best possible way to get in the administrative process and the building permit, but not only building permits but also useful permits, which is very, very important when we talk about the realisation of the construction contract itself. Furthermore, the Institute of Time-limits for mutual demand when it comes to the transport of goods and services. We are here at the Institute alone out of date under the Law on Mandatory Relations and So far, along with the five-year-old deadlines, the age-old deadlines of three years, we had, of course, predicted those situations when that deadline was a year old. These are specific situations. And on these specific situations now, that deadline is being extended by a year of age, with the possibility, not the possibility, but the legal provision for that period to be three years old. What I want to say is when we talk about age itself within the framework of how it is prescribed by the Law on Mandatory Relations. And in this situation, obsolescence does not mean the loss of subjective rights in that material sense. It is only over a certain period of time that it loses the ability to highlight or call on its rights so that it can be implemented in some court or other, mainly by judicial proceedings and realised. And finally, I mean no less important, and that is, of course, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club in the right way, the distinguished colleague Maric pointed out, when it comes to the responsibility of the seller for the minor material disadvantages of things, now this institute is being discussed in a different way, more modern way, more appropriate, practice and in the European Union where the buyer, according to the current provision or amendments and the supplementation we are discussing today, is indeed not entitled to terminate the contract, but other rights of liability for material deficiencies, which can be treated as small or minor deficiencies. So, and in conclusion, this law absolutely needs to be supported. It fully harmonises the Law on Mandatory Relations now with all its institutions, with the acquis of the European Union. And I'd dare say it's really a modern regulation. One regulation which discusses institutes in a way that, in terms of implementation or in practice, all those entities to which they are concerned will actually represent one quality. One quality in such a way that mandatory legal relations can be resolved in the same, same, quality way as in our environment, trade environment or business environment or the application of these provisions within the frameworks of the European Union. With this point, I conclude my presentation, noting that this regulation absolutely needs to be supported, and, of course, to the promoters and all those involved in the drafting of this proposal, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Relations should also be congratulated on the efforts made and on what they have offered us in terms of the development of legal institutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-28-0.u5829	Thank you. Mr. Representative Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-28-0.u5830	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We are ahead of us to amend and supplement the Law on Mandatory Relations with the Final Proposal, a clear law that came into force on 1 January 2006, which harmonizes our legislation with European Union legislation, but also the harmonisation of our legislation with the acquiss of the European Union and concerns mandatory relations. What should be pointed out at the outset and said that this is a qualitative step that will in any case enrich clear and contribute to a qualitative relationship primarily because of its adoption. It is the one relating to the contractual and non-contractual relations that should be harmonised, as well as the relations between producers, consumers, etc. should be harmonised clearly. And I think it's after a total examination of the so-called. screening of Chapter XXVIII. – Consumer and health protection and assessments of compliance of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union have identified the need for further harmonisation, which is clear and assumed compliance. And it is also clear what the government has taken over in its negotiating position for this chapter. And it has committed not only to him but also to further harmonisation as two other consumer directives, so the need for further harmonisation and these disagreements that exist has been assessed. That's exactly what I wanted to say. These changes and additions were necessary because they were clearly reflected in these long-term changes in practice. It was a practice that, but with the help and legal science, would point to what needed to be changed. And there, in any case, should be commended to all those who contributed to these changes and additions, as Mr Tomljanovic had previously said. We will clearly make clear this proposed law not only to promote compliance with the acquis but also to address at all the many doubts that have been clearly shown during this two-year application in practice, and thus we will ultimately get a elaborate concept and the manufacturer in terms of the provisions of responsibility for these material deficiencies that we have already heard clearly and what guarantees for the correctness of something that has been sold, only that ultimately we should take account of who will control it tomorrow because we have a clear appearance today that we have very much of goods here that are uncontrollably or with some suspicious declaration appearing on the market. Also, it will be developed and legal for the seller to be responsible for all material deficiencies but the customer will then not be able to terminate the contract. But he's got some other rights that come out of it, rights out of liability from material defects. These shortcomings clearly, they may also be certain defects but these defects will be able to be removed and compensated in any case. Also, this law allows guarantees to be provided by manufacturers and sellers and that the guarantee is binding regardless of the form in which it is given is very important, so that we can treat both in writing and hence the one given orally and that these guarantees can certainly guarantee certain security that we have not had so far. We will also make it clear by this law that the provisions on the limitation of the duration of the right of purchase do not apply to the first purchase rights of the commercial contracts and to the right of the first share of the company. In the section relating to the banking criteria, Mr Maric spoke, so I would no longer talk about it, but I would say something that, in fact, this existing law did not define the person of public law until the end, did not prescribe criteria for determining either the circle or the person, nor did he specify any other regulation. This will now define this issue and the persons who are obliged to comply with public procurement regulations other than companies by the final proposal amending and supplementing this law. Perhaps one of the most qualitative shifts when it comes to the fact that local self-government units can remove some shortcomings is what the predecessor Mr. Tomljanovic said and this is a contract to build with provisions key in hand. Why he's so important and important. It actually covers everything that applies to the whole investment, and there's this qualitative shift and it's going to be like that this new way or this proposed way completely rounded up and covered, and so far there's been different problems inside of it. At the end of the proposed amendments, it clearly wishes to address these shortcomings and at the same time... to edit the concepts that are tied up as Mr. Maric said from the banking guarantee and the proposed law on amendments and amendments to the law is certainly one repeating the quality step again and because of this quality step-up and he determines a more quality legal framework in all of this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We from the Croatian Democratic Community Club and I will personally vote for these amendments and additions to the proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-28-0.u5831	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Vladimir Ivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-28-0.u5832	Dear President, State Secretary, Government representatives, colleagues and fellow MPs. Much is said about the quality of these amendments to the law, however, it should be pointed out that by filling in these legal gaps and interpreting some disputed provisions, some institutions relating to mandatory law are really doing so in a good way. Of course, the area of regulation of these amendments to the laws which are subject to these amendments are guarantees, guarantees, statutes, silences such as non-acceptance of offers, first purchase, accreditation, contract of construction. I want to particularly highlight the meaning of this introduction and the definition of public rights entities as things that were missing in the legal definition itself and did not know how to interpret it. Public law entities are now considered to be a natural or legal person who is obliged to act, or a legal person who is obliged to comply with the Public Procurement Act. However, the amendments offered are defined by a public law entity as a person who is obliged to act on public procurement but without companies. In this case, the companies are subject to regular trade relations and there are no specific problems with regard to the statute of limitations. Public rights entities include local self-government and regional self-government units in a way that makes it clear that the ageing of their claims occurs only after three years. What does it matter? In any event, it is important that the burdens imposed on courts and public notaries in such a way that the frequent complaint of one year and the same debtors is practically challenging the functioning and part of the functioning where unnecessary congestion is created on those institutions. However, what is not foreseen in this law and would be very good at following some of the amendments, and this is to be included in these public law entities, however, also companies that charge so-called companies. public services and which charge energy services because it remained in accordance with Article 232 of the Law for a period of one year. By that deadline of one year, practically legal entities are unnecessarily brought into the situation that each year they have to press charges and their business would allow them to do so every third year. If the legal certainty of debtors is to be achieved over the course of the year then we have already heard it is not achieved in this way because the statute of limitations is not a loss of claim, therefore it is not an end of the obligation. It is only a suspension of payment to the court, and then companies dealing with these activities are still charged after that obligation, because the obligations still exist, and on the other hand they are definitely heavily burdened by the authorities that have to lead. What is most problematic in these relations is that for every purpose now carried out under these services that are relatively less valuable, there should be a pay-out, and if there is no pay on real estate, which is obviously disproportionate between the amount of obligation to be paid and, for example, a house to be sold for that reason. Well, here is certainly a recommendation for those who will later work on the work, possibly this Law, to apply this, public rights entities, and this limitation period of at least three years and on these entities and thus enables the discharging of the judiciary and the public records. Here we have, with these amendments and additions and provisions relating to the retention of the principle that the silence of the tenderers is not also the acceptance of the offer. And in any case, the same institute that existed so far lives on the possibility that, in the case of a permanent second-hand relationship and a trustee, it must fulfil the obligation made by the authorising officer in the event that it does not immediately reject it. So that's how we solve that problem that we're both private and legal entities are covered by various offers that have clauses if you don't return or respond that you've taken the contractual obligation out of those contracts, that is, you've taken over a warrant that would burden you as such. The right of first purchase is the institution that is installed and defined for a maximum period of five years with exceptions already listed, however, it is also important that, if no time limit has been agreed and the contract does not state the duration of the right to purchase, that period shall be reduced to 5 years, except for the exceptions previously mentioned. In the right to build a quality change that was in the wandering of the legal regulation of the institute key in hand, i.e. clause key in the hands that were often interpreted there in the 1990s that it could also be a variable or fixed price for the whole facility. The law made it clear in the first relationship that this could not be ex post, however, the practice showed the need for both the contracting authority and the contractor to be unable to agree on changes on the project and thus achieved the construction of an object that was, in the meantime, proved not to be adequate. This introduction of a clause in which, in these cases, a change can be made in the agreement between the parties, of course and in the price as "key in hand", but also in the subject matter of bargaining is quality. And it is also a quality that allows in these various businesses, a public private partnership among other things, to include designing the facility itself in the system of "key in hand". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-28-0.u5833	Thank you. Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-28-0.u5834	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I support this Amendment and the addition of the Law on Mandatory Relations, which was adopted in 2005 and entered into force in 2006. It is also noted that this was the case of one of the largest normative activities, therefore, the basic adoption, the adoption of a fundamental law, the Law on Mandatory Relations. His preparation lasted eight years. This is also an example of how the fundamental laws of a country which certainly includes the Law on Mandatory Relations with the Law on Criminal Procedure, along with the Material and Criminal Law and the Law on Mandatory Relations. Therefore, this one seriousness of business, experts, without the influence of politics resulted in a great fundamental law, the Law on Mandatory Relations. And therefore, it was not, I believe, nor was the problem of this improvement, of these threads, in the end and of the harmonisation and of the requirements and directives of the European Union regarding certain provisions, but also in certain heads, then to be hip. So these were one solid foundation upon which these changes fit well. As for the general part, therefore, it is understandable precisely because of such a solidity that this Law does not suffer any change, nor is it therefore the subject of these amendments, but, therefore, in that particular part which is changed, therefore, in this contractual, something and in non-contractual relations, therefore, the amendments relate to this particular part. It is certainly to praise the new department, section 35 which speaks and bears the name of a bank guarantee on the call, therefore, which defines at all what a bank guarantee is and we are indeed in the existing law when it is spoken of, therefore, these similar concepts of banking, the name bank guarantee was used, which was certainly, I would say one wrong name for that bank guarantee which was then determined and regulated by the provisions of Articles 39 to 43. So that also created a series of confusions in the public. In this way, these confusions will be a removal but also a defined thing that we have not so far defined in our Law on Mandatory Relations. I would like to say one more thing and since it is an urgent matter, the adoption of the Law by emergency procedure, therefore, which certainly enables a more general discussion than any possibility and a very concrete reference to certain provisions of the amendment, amendments. I would like to say that giving, or responsible for the accuracy of the balance sheet, not only of the banks, but of every company is the cornerstone of orderly business everywhere in the world. Giving false data on the balance sheet is one of the most serious crimes where a minimum of 10 years in prison has been prevented. We in ours, which is why I'm connecting this which is well-stimulated here to the necessary changes in the material, criminal law that we have to reintroduce what we had made possible in the novel of 2003 as a criminal offence of trust abuse, as a central criminal act of economic crime, and we have extended the limitation deadlines somewhere on average for this type of crime to 30 years, aware that our judiciary is very reluctant to face this type of crime and this problem. After all, what is being initiated does not experience adequate judicial epilogues. That's what we see in the State's Attorney's Office report every year. However, and it was a commendable working group at the Ministry of Justice founded on this very trail to amend and modernise our criminal legislation, because one designed I would say legal order in one country would then require a review of both civil and criminal legislation. That is why I am surprised that just now realizing the need for such a definition and amendment of the Law on Mandatory Relations, which is to be welcomed and in this department is still persistently refusing to streamline and amend the Penal Code in terms of modern, modern, economic incrimination in which management of the governance structure would be appropriate. This way we have one more comprehensive, one comprehensive mess, a political legal or legal uncertainty that often depends on a political situation, and then it is interpreted differently whether a responsible person knew something or didn't know it. In such incriminations such a person is invited to know. Ignorance is in no way diminishes his or her responsibility, nor can it be esculpated at all in any other way. Now, with that review, I think here and I suggest that there is also a colleague, Bosnjakovic, the State Secretary, that the possibility of amending the Penal Code is reconsidered on this trail. What a fellow predecessor was saying now, I also agree with it on the deadlines of limitations. So, very short deadlines are obsolete for those periodic payments in the household. If we had a more orderly system then such an appropriate period of one year might be in one more orderly system of pay, but even more orderly charges would be sufficient. Here, however, it also opens up a problem of collection or execution, including such perhaps minor claims. But it is also a matter of changing the Implementing Law which has brought into an inadmissible situation an ordinary citizen, and favored banks, favoured other financial institutions. In any case, the centres of financial power which he allowed without any procedure, therefore without a court procedure, without proceedings through a public notary, only because it was so pre-supposed to the institution of fiduciaryness and for the least claim that man would be left without his most valuable assets, i.e. Real estate. It's something that's not fair, which isn't fair. After all, who can at all, and to such an objection, we received a response here when we from the SDP club criticised the amendments to the law, the executive law that introduced fiduciaries and changed, so we made it worse in those significant amendments to the executive law that was passed in 2002 or third year. So the position of ordinary man, citizen, has deteriorated significantly, and the situation of corporations has improved, I repeat these financial corporations. That's when we got the answer that there's an institute of general law fiduciary law that anyone can use by fiduciation. So who uses fiduciary fiduciation in practice? So, only most often in 99% of cases I would say a higher percentage of the bank. Therefore, the issue of the constitutionality of that provision should be seriously considered. This was even discussed in the academic community, but it was also subject to review by the Constitutional Court judges. What is the position of fiduciary and opportunity at all, I say, that man, that a citizen should be left without his most valuable property because of a minor claim, and on the threshold of the constitutional provision that Croatia is a social state and that is what should be taken into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-28-0.u5835	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-28-0.u5836	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, of course I support that Croatian legal practice on the Croatian market is in line with the legal practice of the European Union countries' markets, and I think this bill is going in that direction. But that doesn't mean we shouldn't be critical. It's our mission in the Parliament. For one more reason, he needs to be critical of this law. In fact, this is a law that has a so-called so-called law. mandatory norms, commensurate standards for traffic participants, so they cannot even exclude them by their own will, by their own agreement. The team is more important and more important to observe with two aspects. Since we also have the Consumer Protection Act, which in favors therefore goes in favour of consumers, it seems to me that this law does not follow that logic. So in legal practice, and of course it creates and the right could result in some important misunderstandings. And I think here we go in a row. In the article, the first majority of speakers here, the MP pointed out one problem, the problem of defining public rights persons. It is defined differently here by the concept of how it is understood in legal practice, but as defined by other laws, and in addition it excludes persons of companies from public rights although some companies have public powers. This will cause a lot of problems in the application of this law. There is something else that when compared to the Consumer Protection Act, none of them solved the issue of declarations on products on the Croatian market which, according to what the consumer associations claim, is consistent with content, it is a really big problem. And secondly, they are so finely written that you can't read them and lead them astray by consumers. And this law could solve that too, but it doesn't solve how the Consumer Protection Act even solves it. I know every law has a so-called law. the legal standards of which, of course, the legal profession and the legal practice that determines and constantly amends them, but I would like to show something that seems inappropriate for me to establish legal standards and legal practice. For example, Article 9 calls for a consumer's effect, if the product has produced significant inconveniences for the customer. The notion of awkwardness is, in my humble opinion, a matter of subjective feeling. For me, it's embarrassing something that no one else is uncomfortable at all, something cultural to me that's not cultural for another. It's a very personal matter and can't be built legal standard. I think we should talk about damages here, and when the issue of lack is minor to the customer, at least we should define that it has nothing to do with the objective of a business relationship, to fulfill a business relationship that would improve everything. In any case, if we had a HItroRez, I would suggest that the Government compare this Law on Mandatory Relations and the Consumer Protection Act. Perhaps it would be a useful role to play, so in a few months, we would probably get a correction for each other and for each other that would be fully aligned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-28-0.u5837	Thank you. Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-28-0.u5838	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the government and distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I think that all citizens of the Republic of Croatia have the perception of one legal certainty of the citizens of the European Union, and I think that we all tend especially to witness almost every day of the affairs arising from different contracts and different procedures that were to say illegal and which were in some way criminal. For this reason, to welcome every proposal for a law that we are approaching is actually to say to the legal standards of the European Union, the countries of the European Union, the civilised countries of the European Union, and thus this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Relations, which has been delivered here and bears the mark of an emergency procedure. Ms. Marinovic said that it takes about 8 years to coordinate and therefore one obviously thorough reflection regarding the adoption of this law although I think that if we read the laws on mandatory relations of these countries that I was talking about, we could have passed such a law or a proposal to amend our existing law much sooner, because there is no way to say inventing warm water, inventing some news or some specificity that would be special to the Republic of Croatia, and would not correspond to the Republic of Austria and I don't know Italy, Germany, France etc. When you look at the proposals set out here in this proposal to amend and supplement the law, then it is clear that in many fields where disputes have occurred, and today there are disputes in many areas that are precisely affecting and which are called here in this text. So to be absolutely certain that, if it had already been adopted, they had already adopted amendments and complemented this law so that they would not be or would have been significantly less. Therefore, it is clear that to support this law, but I am also convinced that the vote of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Relations will be only one core of legal harmonisation, so legal gains and in other laws, such as the Honorable colleague, especially in the Executive Law and the Criminal Law of the Republic of Croatia, will have to come about certain changes and we expect this as soon as possible, and if necessary by an urgent procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-28-0.u5839	Thank you very much. Does the Proposer want a representative? Yeah. State Secretary, Mr. Dragan Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-28-0.u5840	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I just want to thank you for the debate, because I see that there is one support on these amendments to the Law on Mandatory Relations, which, as counterpart Anticevic has already said, is a quality made and actually very well functioning, and these changes are only going with the goal of actually harmonising it fully with the legal acquis of the European Union. We can really discuss certain details, but especially the discussion of fellow Lek about this word: "uncomfortable" and I have actually noticed it, but then in discussion with the expert group, we came to the conclusion that this is still a word that is appropriate and that will work, because it would be very difficult to count specifically in the law of the situation that we could project in the future so that we could act as some kind of inconvenience for which such sanctions should be provided. On behalf of the promoter, I can only say that we will accept these amendments as submitted by the Committee on Legislatives. They're a nomotechnical character and they improve the law. Once again, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-28-0.u5841	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide in the course of the day. Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Relations. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. The promoter accepted, so they became an integral part of the final bill. I am therefore voting on the final draft of the law. Please engage. You can vote. Here you go. Thank you. The result? This law was passed with 120 votes and one abstention.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-28-0.u5844	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen! The adoption of the Law on Free Legal Assistance would bring the legal aid system into line with the acquis of the European Union and this Directive on the provision of legal assistance in cross-border disputes, the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, and this is also consistent with the implementation of the Hague Convention on Legal Assistance in Civil and Administrative Matters. In addition, harmonisation is carried out in accordance with the relevant practice of the European Court of Human Rights with regard to the application of Article 6 of the Convention prohibiting discrimination by any means and on the basis of material opportunities. The proposed draft law builds on an existing legal aid system which does not change in relation to existing specific laws. The law regulates forms of legal assistance, the conditions to be met by the user for its approval, the legal aid providers and the way they work and finance are defined, issues of supervision of law enforcement as well as measures which can be taken in supervision. Specific chapters provide legal assistance for reasons of justice and legal assistance in cross-border matters when parties to the European Union or persons legally staying in the field of the European Union are. It should be stressed that this law provides for legal assistance to victims of criminal acts as well as victims of trafficking in human beings and victims of domestic violence. It is particularly important to point out that the legal assistance procedure is extremely simplified for the future user. Legal assistance is achieved by applying and giving a declaration of property opportunities for itself and by full-time members of his household. For this information, the applicant shall respond materially and criminally, and the only documents whose application is required are certificates of income levels. All other information shall be checked by the office only if it considers it necessary, as well as by law. Data on the property situation are not required to provide only users of any kind of social care, as well as a defender and civil and military disabled wars receiving supplies. Types of legal aid shall be identified as primary and secondary legal aid. The primary legal assistance shall include general legal information, legal advice, legal assistance in the assembly of letters before the authorities of the administration and legal persons with public authority, for the entry into administrative matters, for the peaceful non-judicial settlement of disputes, for the entry before the European Court of Human Rights and international organisations, if this is in accordance with international contracts. Secondary legal aid shall include representation of courts, legal assistance for peaceful dispute resolution and written assembly in court proceedings. Legal aid providers are designated authorised associations, trade unions, legal clinics and lawyers. Associations shall obtain the power to provide legal assistance by enrolment in the Register of Associations providing legal assistance, which shall be directed by the Ministry of Justice. In order to obtain this authority, the association must be based on the provisions of the Association Act. It shall also require the authorised associations to cooperate with a person who fulfils the requirements of professional training, certain work experience and additional qualifications in the form of a state, professional or judicial examination. Higher schools, law schools, are allowed to provide legal assistance to law schools through legal clinics. The instructions issued by the Office shall be issued for primary legal assistance and shall give the right to use all forms of primary legal assistance. Secondary aid shall be granted for the procedure of a specific type and degree. The primary legal aid is therefore authorised to grant authorised associations, trade unions, lawyers, legal clinics, and secondary legal assistance is authorised to grant only lawyers. This law also determines that administrative oversight is carried out by the Ministry of Justice and that such administrative supervision can be carried out both by law-approval authorities and by legal aid providers in all aspects of the application of this law. The provision of legal assistance is primarily an obligation of the State. Consequently, funds to organise the provision of legal aid and to pay the costs according to the instructions must be provided in the state budget. The planned funding based on legal aid would be 0.76 euros per capita, and in the 2010 state budget projects, it would be planned to pay out on the basis of a free legal aid of 25 million kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-28-0.u5845	Thank you very much. Do the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Representative Boris Sprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-28-0.u5846	Dear Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected and representatives of the government and representatives, actually representatives! The aim of the proposed Law on Free Legal Assistance is to enable all citizens of the Republic of Croatia and foreigners to be equal before courts and other bodies of the state administration and bodies which have public authority and which is in accordance with the provision of Article 26. The Constitution. Such an initiative is commendable and certainly necessary, and especially given that in the early 1990s, then office days were abolished in municipal courts where citizens addressed their legal issues or where legal advisory citizens were given. As the legislator himself rightly observes, the legal gap in the ability of citizens to exercise their right to access the court. It's a big shame it was done, and it was done to me in '92. A year. The Institute of Defence of the Poor Prosecutor, the defendants who cannot bear the costs themselves, is also known through the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act as well as through the relevant provisions of the Law on Prosecution. The name of the proposed law is the law on free legal aid where it is not clear in the law itself what is considered to be free legal aid and, in particular, in the light of the provision of Article 37, where it is prescribed that, if the beneficiary of legal aid is fully or partially successful in the procedure and the court gives him the property or receipt, or where the administrative procedure belongs to a specific property or the recipient, the amount of legal assistance paid is due to be paid to the State budget. Defining the legal assistance of Article 2 of the proposed law in such a way as to facilitate access to the court and other bodies in a way that costs are wholly or partly borne by the Republic of Croatia is not a definition which would fully meet legal and technical standards for the reasons that, under the notion of free legal assistance, it implies that a person who does not have the material capacity to represent himself and that the involvement of a lawyer could compromise the maintenance of it itself and its household members. The implementation of the law is questionable in terms of efficiency and speed, and I do not agree with the applicant’s representative, and given that a person must first submit a request in the prescribed form, then confirm the tax administration at the level of the applicant’s income and members of his household on the property, a statement of the same about the authorisation of the property data, confirmation of the competent social care centre on the type and level of assistance in the last 12 months, confirmation or review of the supply solution and of asylum seekers, foreigners under subsidiary protection, parties under private protection and victims of human trafficking, confirmation of the competent authority of their status. The victims of domestic violence are also obliged to obtain all these certificates and statements but only for themselves, which is an exception that is not comforting. Why isn't she comforting? So imagine when a husband beats up a woman and now she's looking for legal help going first to get a variety of certificates to make it happen. Well, I guess the other way around, she needs help right away and the costs will be settled later on, that is, by paying those costs. It seems to us that it's a lot of administration that requires a lot of time, so we suggest that the process be simplified. Who are the proposed law providers of legal aid? They are lawyers, authorised associations and higher schools, or law schools. In relation to legal clinics, the holder of the production in the non-normal part of the law states that it is a long and wide-ranging practice in the world and whose beginnings already exist at the law schools in the Republic of Croatia. However, in the light of the law, we learn that legal clinics can be established according to special regulations, college statutes and higher schools, and that legal clinics today do not exist in a system of higher education at law schools other than individual simplified forms at individual universities. Their overall position should be governed by specific rules on higher education. The fact is that the proposed law could not have been more detailed in setting up legal clinics because of the violation of university autonomy, but it certainly raises the question of where these clinics are and when we can expect them because they are the very ones that represent an important novelty in our legal system. So it wouldn't be a good idea for them to stay just a dead letter on paper. As from the transitional and final provisions, we will have to wait for this law. We are waiting for the entry into force as scheduled for 1 August 2008 while the key provisions of Articles 15 and 16 of the Laws are being extended they enter into force only on 1 April 2009. It is necessary to adopt a series of implementing rules without which the law cannot be applied and, as it is elaborated in the non-regular part of it, to replace the internal structure of the Ministry of Justice, to employ new servants, to educate them and to carry out these tasks, and to provide for it as from 1 May 2009 so as to recalculate that the law enters into force on 1 April 2009. Finally, we support the adoption of this law, but with thorough completion, proper preparation, the provision of conditions for its application, which has not been done because in this form as it is proposed today, it is another law that will not at all or at least experience its application so soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-28-0.u5847	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to warn you that today we will vote on the points of the agenda that we have concluded. In fact, the need is or cannot be voted upon by a decision on a contingent of our armed forces at the Golan High School without 102 votes. I'm asking the clubs to secure that. So we can expect a vote of one, so let's say by one and a half, depending on how we end these points of the agenda, and there is also a need to vote this part of the Rules of Procedure, it should at least be 77 votes for. So please make sure. So it is best to call at one hour to have the MPs come so they can finish this session and vote on the necessary points of the agenda. And we announced that we would finally start using the keys. So it is also one need for those who do not, who do not have them on them or so that there is time to make sure that we start with an electronic vote. Thank you. Now let's move on. For the HDZ club, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-28-0.u5848	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished state secretary with associates. Introductoryly, I would like to point out that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports this bill, so the Law on Free Legal Assistance, of course. Indeed, this regulation should allow citizens of poor property to have legal assistance which that category of people could not or could not achieve with great difficulty in terms of their material opportunities. The basic intensity of this law is the abolition of discrimination, discrimination in the process of exercising the right in view of the property situation of the individual. Furthermore, the provision of timely information and quality legal advice before the exercise of rights and the preparation of the professional representation procedure should also allow for more effective work not only of courts but also of other bodies that decide on the rights and obligations of Croatian citizens. It should also point out that the provisions of this law find their foothold in the acquis of the European Union, international legal practice and the recommendations contained in international contracts as well as in the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. The introduction should also say that in the Republic of Croatia the truth in different segments is present at the Institute of Free Legal Assistance, but the truth is that it is not fully decorated, therefore quite complicated, often unknown to potential users. There is a constant need, therefore, for the existence of forms of free legal assistance, with the fact that there remains a large number of citizens whose rights in this sense remain unprotected. This constant need really needs to be translated into a quality regulation that will clearly, precisely and fully regulate a whole series of problems that we can put under common name, namely free legal aid. How is the situation found, what in this sense is the existing situation in terms of providing free legal assistance today? Allow me to read several explicit legal provisions that regulate this matter. For example, Article 172. The law on litigation effectively regulates that the court will exempt the payment of the costs of the party’s proceedings, which, according to its general property condition, cannot settle those costs without any damage to the necessary maintenance of itself and its family. Furthermore, Article 14. The law on court fees which also directly and precisely determines that the court will exempt from paying court fees to a party who, according to its general property, cannot settle court fees without adverse consequences for the necessary maintenance of himself and his family and as regards exiles, refugees and social care users. Article 21 is also applicable. The Law on Lawyership, I think it is very important to stress that the Chamber is obliged to provide free legal assistance, therefore, free legal assistance and victims of the Homeland War and socially endangered persons, of course in legal matters in which those persons are struggling to exercise their rights in relation to their position as well as in other cases in accordance with the internal regulations of the Chamber, of course all in accordance with the Code of Legal Ethics. This has already been discussed in the Law on Criminal Procedure, situations have been elaborated when guaranteed, of course, the defendants' rights to counsel, of course the costs of professional defence. As regards the very text of the proposed law, the notion of legal aid, i.e. the answer to the question of what legal aid is, and the answer to this question is found in Article 2. A law defined by that institute as a way of facilitating access to court, but also other bodies which decide on the rights and obligations of Croatian citizens and foreigners in such a way that the costs are fully or partly borne by the Republic of Croatia, taking into account their material position and circumstances so as not to be able to exercise this right without jeopardising, maintaining and maintaining members of their household. So defined in the law itself, legal aid is implemented as primary or secondary legal aid, with the primary legal aid under the proposal of the law having six basic elements and relating to general, general legal information, legal advice, writing, representation in administrative matters, assistance in the peaceful and non-judicial settlement of the dispute and representation at the European Court of Human Rights and International Organisations. And secondary legal aid consisting of three elements, therefore, representation before the court, legal aid for peaceful dispute resolution and the assembly of written papers in accordance with court proceedings. On the basis of the above, the Commission notes that, in the light of the above, the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, and in particular with the opinion of the Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, This Law defines legal aid providers, i.e. determines which legal aid providers are, therefore, lawyers as well as authorised associations and higher universities. By providing legal assistance, legal aid providers provide legal assistance with compensation with a provision not to charge for the provision of general legal information. The authorisation of legal assistance shall be granted by applying in an office, in the office of the State Administration in whose territory the applicant has residence or residence. Here should stop, of course, to comment on Article 30 of the proposed legal text which is very important, it regulates what the manual is both in character and in its content. Therefore, the manual as an act as well as a manual in terms of jurisdiction or work within the jurisdiction of the Office of State Administration. Therefore, the notice issued for primary legal aid contains a certificate of compliance with the conditions for obtaining legal assistance and gives the right, therefore, to use all forms of primary legal aid. A manual issued for secondary legal aid shall be issued for procedures of a particular type and degree which do not cover procedures under exceptional legal remedies and for which a new instruction must be requested. I think it is also very important to highlight the article, paragraph 3 of that Article, of Article 30, which regulates the manual. Therefore, that the beneficiary of legal aid, on the basis of the instructions issued, is independent in deciding on the choice of the legal aid provider, taking into account the authority of the provider to provide certain forms of legal assistance. It's final. This regulation in this segment of the judicial system should establish, inter alia, such a system of values in which the possibility of using legal aid will be a monitoring entirely or partly by means of a state budget, and all in the light of the progress of the provisions already discussed in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which are being discussed on the one hand and the right to access to court, but even more importantly in the context of the application of this Act, guaranteeing equality in the light of all before the Court, therefore, regardless of their material status. In line with everything exposed, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, the Croatian Democratic Community's Representatives Club proposes that this regulation be supported in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-28-0.u5849	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-28-0.u5850	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, Madam Representative of the Government. The club of representatives of the Croatian People's Party will support the adoption of this Act. However, it should be said that it will not do so because the legislative proposal is good but rather because the existing state of provision of free and sponsored legal aid is simply not arranged. And unfortunately, this law will regulate the elemental things in that area, but not on all elements in the right way. We hope that after the application of this Act, after the first period of application of this Act, some elements of this Law that are disputed will pay attention to the shortcomings shown. I would like to remind myself that the Institute is a free and sponsored legal aid element of the legal protection system which allows regulated legal states to achieve human right to a fair trial, i.e. the general right to access to availableness, i.e. access to justice in particular for non-equity persons who would allow them to finance their own legal protection. In fact, in most cases, it refers to those depressed populations who for various reasons have been disabled in equal court status, primarily because of their property conditions, i.e. the difficult social conditions of life. In addition, it is generally about persons of poorer educational status, people who do not know the rules and rules of legal procedure. It is rare for people who do not know or speak the language in which the legal process is conducted against them. Also, especially when it comes to refugees and asylum seekers, it is about persons in a completely unknown environment. It is therefore more important that free or sponsored legal assistance can be reached as quickly as possible, as easily as possible with less administration. Furthermore, that a large number of institutions do not have to be visited in the process of recognising this right, because the size of the people to whom the law refers is practical or do not know where they are. Therefore, since it is also about the poor, often the elderly and also the weakly mobile and the sick, it is very important that the right to free legal assistance does not need to travel far. However, it should also be recalled that the bill, although in a different form, was already in front of the Parliament in October of last year when the expert and interested public reacted to it. I would like to remind you that part of the public has even been organised by the NGO in a coalition of twenty NGOs that had very serious objections to the text of the law at the time. But also, the remarks came from the professional academic public. At that time, the key objections were precisely excessive bureaucratism of the process and the fact that they were the most vulnerable potential users to actually exercise that right. That third remark was the favor of a lawyer's lobby. The problem, as well as the problem of the absence of the Institute of Free and Sponsored Legal Assistance, was particularly strongly alerted by a reminder and by a public defender on several occasions. Of course, by bringing this whole thing into a relationship with an existing system of determining the amount of legal fees. This new proposal has in some ways facilitated these key remarks and interested professionals as it has specifically defined the primary and secondary type of legal assistance. It also allowed the possibility of primary legal aid to be dealt with and licensed associations. He also allowed the unions to do so without special conditions, and according to the Labour Act, that is what unions do for their members. However, it brings a new system which should also be assessed objectively, which is a system of a massive bureaucratic apparatus in the offices of the state administration that I will remind in 2008 and 2009 in the years in which this law cannot yet be applied, i.e. the right to free legal aid under this law, to spend 10 million kuna on the installation of the new system, and in 2010, somewhere around 14 million kuna. The real costs of providing legal aid under the reasoning of this law are still being assessed, which is 0.76 euros per capita. The estimates say, at least as far as the legislator is concerned, that in 2010, about 24 million kuna. Some NGOs are courageous in assessing that it is as much as 10m euros. Evaluating the number of cases that are now emerging as users of free legal aid, which is 70,000 cases a year. Because the Bar Association and other free legal aid providers serve less than 1,000 of these demands per year at this time. I will also remind myself that in the world there is a very widespread practice of providing free legal assistance to all citizens and via the Internet. On the Internet, you can find very qualified systems that offer citizens advice and information from court practice from the domain of criminal, commercial, bankruptcy, criminal, labour, family, administrative, property, intellectual, litigation, insurance, etc. You can even find more than 36,000 different legal forms that are charged on one page, but are available without a tour of state institutions. Unfortunately, our law does not recognize this kind of assistance. There is no mention of the possibility of providing primary legal assistance, for example via the Internet, where it is possible for a provider of such a type of legal assistance from sponsoring funds to compensate for part of its costs. Furthermore, it should be said that the shortcomings of this proposal are extremely high criteria when it comes to the licensing of associations. I will remind in our practice associations that provide primary legal assistance are associations that already have 15, 16, 17 years of practice in this because this practice has come from a great deal of trouble, and above all our victims from the Homeland War, returnees, refugees, exiles. So, all of those categories that were directly at risk in Croatia in the 1990s. Today, no matter what experience they have and what actual capacity they have, they will not be licensed unless they meet the criteria set out in this law which are also financially, because insurance must also be passed for potential damage to the user of the service. That's not the case with legal clinics. The legal clinic can be practice students and there is no obligation either to pay for this guarantee or to hire people with a state exam. It seems that the article 11 of this law has just been made under a lot of pressure from the bar. Moreover, we warn that unfortunately the law can only be applied to the poorest layer, because the property censorship is so set that you really must not have any means of living to achieve this legal aid, and it does not apply, for example, to those depressed social groups that, by their status, cannot provide legal assistance in the right way. Let's say the victims of the mobbing. What about the man who lost his job a month and a half ago? And why do I say that? Because the property price, i.e. the income includes all the income in the last 12 months that are divided into 12 and the average monthly income is obtained. So he worked for 9 or 10 months, the last three months didn't work, he had a relatively average salary that when divided into 12 would be higher than this census that was established and would not exercise the right to help, and the fact that he hasn't had anything to live on for three months doesn't matter. Furthermore, what about Roma groups we also know to live in very difficult conditions and that they find it very difficult to prove these elements in proving property censorship. In any case, we hold that the adoption of rules on free legal aid is a big and important thing. However, we also warn that this formulated regulation will also have some negative effects in practice, and we ask the promoter to keep an eye on the practice of implementation even though practical implementation will begin only at the end of 2009 and in 2010, then we will have to wait until the first results of the application of this law, and then, accordingly, this law will fluctuate later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-28-0.u5851	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-28-0.u5852	Thank you very much. Mr. President, the honourable representatives of the Government of Prosecutors, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, I could, and it would be the best and most true thing if I said that the birth pains of this law on free legal aid are very severe, and if we look at the title, it's P.Z.E. And he came in the first reading. I would, of course, like to believe that it was a good intention of the promoter if we didn't look into the history of passing this law. First of all, the National Programme for Joining the European Union under political conditions, under the political criteria, provides for Croatia to adopt this law and thus bring its legal system in line with the legal system of the countries of the European Union. Secondly, several elements of the European Commission have conditioned Croatia to pass this law. Third, the 2005 European Commission expert report also obliged the Croatian state, the Croatian government, to pass the law. Fourthly, Croatian society, Croatian reality, Croatian social problems, the Croatian judiciary has been asking for ten years to pass the Law on Legal Assistance and now again I believe that it is in good faith, we are getting from the Government a proposal for law in the first reading by telling us in transitional, or final provisions that in practice this law will first come to life in 2010. And no one, I hope, can be against the Law of Free Legal Assistance. And now we're about in a schizophrenic situation. We are all for the law, but it will only work in 2010. Citizens can't wait, especially citizens in the social situation that they can't exercise their rights through the court, because it's expensive for them, waiting for us as their representatives to see it. Europe has been asking for four years, the government has been promising for four years, society for 10 years, and we're still going to say, let's bring the form, but in two years we're going to start applying that law practically. Therefore, the government shows in fact that it does not believe that it will end negotiations and bring Croatia's legislation into line with legislation, i.e. with the acquis communautaria with the legislation of the European Union countries until the deadline when it promises us, by 1.9 next year, because Europe does not only require that we formally adopt norms but that, according to these standards, Croatian society and the Croatian legal system live, so that it is incorporated, that we have the same legal standards as the European Union countries. So the government makes it clear to us that there is nothing of her promise in 2009, because it will not be applied here in 2009 but 2010. Well, she did take a step anyway. But when we look at the law then, in my court, I couldn't check it out, so I couldn't simulate the law, the law was passed that it would be very difficult, or the homeless would be able to use this law, and it's not the point of using only the homeless, but to ensure access to the court. To ensure access to court, one of the important human rights. Whoever starts checking in, the users of legal aid, Section 3, will see that it's almost just for the homeless. And the analysis of the standards themselves, because it's about first reading, would suggest we stick to some standards. If there is one concept in legal life in Croatia, then it should be the same concept for all laws, the same legal content. So here, for example, I quote, members of the household by this provision, that's to say the tenants, the ones who live together. But members of the joint household, if you or any citizen asks you, the Republic of Croatia, on average educated and on average informed, would say that the common household is an economic category. Those who contribute jointly to the maintenance of this family, those members of that joint household. This isn't it. If we could continue to comment on who has a higher standard of living? Well, richer people. The wealthier people, so that people with a higher standard may have less income and enter the free legal aid program. And those of whom ten are found in some housing unit, of course ten will make some money, if not all of them are homeless. So the law in general, the purpose, the intention justifies why it came here and requires that we support it. But the whole essence of the law seems to me to have been passed, let's have a formal act. And I'm going back to the beginning. So I'm feeling a schizophrenic situation. I have to support the law in my first reading because it's a good idea, but when I try to tell those who ask me when it's going to work, then what do I know when it will. There in two, three years. Well, we can't think. There's no reason that according to what this law has already collected as an argument, and that's what my colleague Beus has already said, 70 thousand cases and relatively small money for such an important thing to be delayed. And we have enough to say, I don't like that term, I don't like the resources to provide people who are crying for free legal aid, but next year. Come on, he doesn't have to this year, but next year, it's all over. Here in this context, of course, I will support law-making, but I would ask that it be consistent when it comes with the law in the second reading and finally its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-28-0.u5853	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-28-0.u5854	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable representatives of the promoters, respected colleagues and fellow MPs! I'm glad we're discussing this extraordinary today, I'd say an important law that regulates the provision of legal assistance. We know that the Republic of Croatia does not have an integrated system of legal assistance for those categories of citizens who are not materially able to provide legal assistance themselves in court or administrative proceedings. We also know that one of the political criteria for joining the European Union is the measure contained in Chapter XXIII. and XXIV. - Justice and fundamental rights, freedom, justice and equality. Therefore, the proposed legal assistance system of our legislation is in line with the acquis of the European Union, the practice of the European Court of Human Rights with regard to the prohibition of discrimination on the basis of material opportunities and guaranteed rights such as the right to access to court and the right to a fair trial. To stress that the legal system of the Republic of Croatia contains certain elements of legal assistance insurance through the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act, which, for example, guarantees the right of the defendant to defend himself, then through the provisions of the Law on the Procedural Procedure, which, for example, regulates the exemption from the payment of court fees and charges, then through the provisions of the Law on Lawyership which regulates that the Chamber is obliged to provide free legal assistance to victims of the Homeland War and socially endangered persons. Therefore, this legislative proposal builds on the existing legal assistance system in order to open up opportunities for legal assistance to other categories of citizens. This proposal regulates forms of legal assistance, the conditions to be achieved by the user in order to approve legal aid, determines legal aid providers, their way of working, their way of financing, supervision and others. The proposal regulates the types of legal assistance through primary legal assistance covering general legal information, legal advice, legal assistance in drawing up letters in front of administration bodies and legal persons with public authority, representation in administrative matters, legal assistance in peaceful non-judicial and dispute resolution, representation to international institutions. And secondary aid, which includes representation of courts, legal aid for a peaceful settlement of the dispute before the court and the assembly of letters in court proceedings. Those types of legal aid are provided by legal aid providers. Lawyers provide primary and secondary legal assistance. Authorised associations provide primary legal assistance. And legal clinics are authorized to provide general legal information, legal advice and to draw up letters other than representation. The proposal regulates users of legal aid. These are natural persons, Croatian citizens and foreigners who have their residence or residence in the Republic of Croatia and citizens and states who are not members of the European Union, but are parties to the Hague conventions as well as to the Republic of Croatia. And after the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union and citizens, Member States of the European Union. It should be pointed out that the legal aid approval procedure itself is quite simplified for the user of legal aid. Legal aid itself is granted by applying and giving a declaration of property opportunities for applicants and members of his family, and the only document to be submitted is a confirmation of the level of income. Of course, the data applicant shall be responsible for both material and criminal purposes. Property data are not required to provide users of any kind of social care, defenders, civilian military disabled wars receiving supplies. This law not only provides citizens with the right to a fair trial and access to court but also expects it to contribute to a reduction in the number of procedures initiated and their shorter duration, given that professional assistance will be granted to citizens from the very beginning of the procedure. For all things, I support the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-28-0.u5855	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have four, five MPs on this agenda. However, we also have the next item in the agenda of the Law on Areas and Courts. How we can't finish that agenda point because there are five, six clubs and a dozen registered means we're going to have to put it in the next session. So, if this were to continue the session we could start, but we're closing this session and the new session will be when, about half next month, so we'll have a break at least two weeks. Now I suggest we finish this agenda. When I said this decision should be made, then with regard to sending a contingent, the military contingent needs 102 votes for not quorum, but it means 102 votes for. Therefore, there will be plenty of time left for the clubs I ask you to make sure that the MPs come to vote on it and the other final points of the agenda and maybe it will end sooner than we thought this item of the agenda, but then we will stay here for an hour to gather here for a vote. So now we're gonna move on. And don't forget the keys. So, I'll ask her before the vote if we may have forgotten. But right now, this is the second time we've finally started with this electronic vote. It's Mr. Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-28-0.u5856	Thank you very much. Mr. President, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I'll warn you of two things at first. First, I will distance myself here from the position of the Croatian People's Party club to support this bill. I will refrain, and I will refrain from it not because the HNS Assembly is approaching next week but for the reasons I have promised a group of people of Rijeka with whom I have spoken in connection with this point. And what I'm about to say is about their attitude. However, I think relatively similar, but I promised them that I would firmly convey exactly what they think about this law. At the beginning of our conversation, they asked me two questions, very interesting questions, so I'll read them here as I wrote it down. They asked me if free legal aid was needed in Croatia by the poorest Croatian citizens or perhaps the richest Croatian citizens. The second question was whether the free legal aid I think should be given to the poorest Croatian citizens or perhaps the Croatian government before them. And then the conversation started and they explained it the next way. My neighbours from Crimea say if the European Union insists on applying this law it definitely means that the European Union does not know the opportunities in the Republic of Croatia and does not know Croatian priorities. They say, it is true that many of us are digging through containers, it is true that some mayors are threatening us, it is true that we collect plastic and glass bottles, it is true that we collect discarded metal items but it is also true that we pay all our dues and that we buy and pay the bread we eat fairly. But they warn my... And I think the villagers feel the same way, who needs legal help for them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] According to them, legal aid is needed by the richest Croatian citizens and those who have become it in the last 15 years. The argument one, a large part of these newly-roasted rich men, is very modestly educated. A large part of these rich people do not know Croatian laws, a large part of these rich people have big problems with Croatian laws, a large part of these rich people are burdening themselves, a lot of them are burdening the Croatian judiciary so they claim that they need legal help, they need mandatory legal assistance, and sometimes they need grilled legal help. They therefore propose to our negotiating team and the Croatian government to try to convince Brussels that they need free legal aid, these rich Croatian citizens but certainly also to the Croatian government. I ask why the Croatian government, and then they explain it very simply. He says look at the case with Astaldi, Hypo Bank, Liburnia hotels. Croatia's government needs help, fierce legal aid because if they had this help today, Croatian citizens would cost it hundreds of times less than what they would get through free legal aid. ... You'll have the opportunity to replicate me. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The message of the last of my bones is the following. We need first of all a job and a decently paid job for poor Croatian citizens, and without Brussels and without this legal help, we will know how to solve all our life's concerns in quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-28-0.u5857	Thank you very much. It is up to Madam Representative Marija Pejcinović-Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-28-0.u5858	Thank you very much, Mr. President, gentlemen of the State Secretary, government associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's one of that series of laws ahead of us from our national programme, Appendix A, which we adopted in this House Law on Free Legal Assistance, which here, with the exception of maybe the last speaker, I think we all agreed that Croatia is very needed, that it is important and that it is actually about it, that is, for some time already. What is important to say, therefore, some elements of this legal, free legal aid could be found in different regulations, but what is good is that this issue is regulated by one law and that what the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia foresees in its Article 14 is that all are equal before the law. In this way, in fact, it enables this fundamental right from the Constitution and those citizens whose social status is such that they may not have had such access to justice so far as it will be when this law enters into force. Here, this is the context in which I think it is extremely important to support this Law, therefore, it will certainly contribute to the improvement of our citizens by adopting a degree of force. And I think that's the first and most fundamental reason why this law should be supported. The second reason that is not less important, but I would say is derived from this first, it is certainly that in the context of our accession to the European Union, this Law has a double meaning, but it is already said, it belongs to so-called. The first Copenhagen criterion, therefore, is the political criterion for the functioning of the rule of law, so this is certainly improving, and in the second part it actually meets the criteria set out in Chapter 23 of the judiciary and fundamental human rights where it is required to adopt a revised action plan for judicial reform, and this Law is explicitly listed as one of the laws to be adopted under that revised action plan. With which it is aligned, I think we have heard quite well, therefore, what is very directly important when Croatia enters the European Union, therefore, to regulate, or comply with Directive 2003/8/EC, which is to regulate legal aid in cross-border disputes. But what I would point out more here, it is certainly that we are here in line with the relevant practice of the European Court of Human Rights with regard to the application of Article 6. Convention prohibiting discrimination on the grounds of material opportunities in respect of the Convention on guaranteed rights such as the right to access to court and the right to a fair trial. Here was the talk about it, he quoted his colleague Leko as saying that he had actually mentioned it in public for 10 years, as the European Commission's bodies have been talking about it in Croatia for several years, etc., it's all true. But since it is, it is an important matter. And as we have seen from the debate today, a question that opens up a number of questions, so how is it going to be implemented in practice and an important law, which is certainly because the new law requires the establishment of a new one, as I would say to the administration, the administrative part that is going to implement it, the education of the people who are going to implement it, the material means to implement it, I think it partially answers the question of when it is already being brought, and it is good to bring it, why is not being implemented immediately. I doubt that in this assembly and certainly in the government there is anyone who would have anything to do with this important law being applied as soon as possible, so as soon as possible, so as soon as possible. However, I am deeply convinced that when the bill was proposed, the legislator considered all these circumstances and suggested a maximum good time frame in which this could happen and that the law should be implemented properly. He mentioned that this is the crown proof that the government does not mean seriously when it talks about Croatia's accession, that is, the deadline when we would like to conclude the negotiations, or sign an accession agreement, which is the summer, late summer next year. I have to admit, I may not be able to read enough, I'm not a lawyer, but here's the thing, reading the transitional and final provisions, I'm reading something else than I've heard from my colleagues, Lek. It is said, therefore, that all I can read the latest deadline is April 1st of the following year. So, in 2009, he was talking about 2010, I have to admit that I didn't find anywhere to see how this came about just being applied in 2010. But I repeat, it must be the interest of everyone, so I'm sure the Government will, therefore, begin and apply this Law at the best possible time. On the other hand, since it is such an important law and it is a law concerning many stakeholders, it is not only those who will receive legal, free legal assistance but also those who will provide it. The government set up a working group that included all those who were, in fact, potential donors and or future donors and legal aid. So, in fact, this Law was included in the creation of the Supreme Court, the Croatian Bar Association, the academic community, associations and trade unions. And actually the result of their work is what we actually have in front of us, so this proposal. It was also discussed by the Economic and Social Council and therefore supported by such a bill. I would finally like to say, given that we have agreed that this is an extremely important law which will actually be the most important to those who are most needed, and these are our fellow citizens whose social status is not enough for them to be able to access the court at all times. I would like to plead here, therefore, to support this important proposal in this reading because it was supported by other factors that I think are extremely important. And not least, therefore, it is also about meeting the criteria, so we all agreed that our goal is to join the European Union. So we also agreed that this consensus on accession to us and we agreed not only on this but also on the importance at this point that this should happen preferably, so that we end the negotiations next year to help us in the Assembly to meet these criteria that are before us in this particularly important chapter of Justice 23 and fundamental human rights. So, for that reason, I will vote personally for this bill. And I am convinced that because of the importance of this law, so will the majority in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-28-0.u5859	Thank you. Dear Representative Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-28-0.u5860	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here I would quite agree with the presentation of my colleague, Maria Pejcinović, because I think she explained in detail what it means for the Republic of Croatia and what it means for its citizens who are weaker property status to pass this law. But something that I have to point out here which is of great importance, and what I personally am very pleased about, I also mentioned on the Committee on Justice that the adoption of this law will make it extremely easier, i.e. to allow access to the court and other bodies and to a fair trial, to ensure a fair trial for people with disabilities. We know that persons with disabilities are, in principle, not all, but in principle, weaker material status and that the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which the Republic of Croatia ratified last year, guarantees people with disabilities access to the court, a fair trial which allows this law. What the colleague mentioned was regulated so far in some ways by different regulations. However, it is vital to regulate everything in one law so that everyone can cope more easily. So I will support the adoption of this law, and I must convey to all of you the extraordinary gratitude of the disabled. Yesterday, at a thematic session of the City Assembly dedicated to people with disabilities, many people with disabilities there asked me if it was true because they heard from the media that it was in the parliamentary procedure of adopting the Law on Free Legal Assistance. When I informed them that it was indeed true, I must admit that they were extremely pleased. It's proof of what it means to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-28-0.u5861	Thank you. Dear Representative Vladimir Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-28-0.u5862	Dear Vice-President, State Secretary, Government representatives, colleagues and fellow MPs. The area of free legal aid is in theory and legally called as a poverty right and it is time for these people to be given equal and quality legal assistance, and this law basically forms not only in terms of representation before courts as defined by that secondary legal aid but also in these everyday matters which are resolved before administrative authorities, legal advice, information, etc. This first part of the final law could be something simpler, so the provision of legal advice from all those mechanisms that we protect when it comes to free legal assistance to courts and administrative authorities because there are a large number of people on the ground who simply do not have access to media with basic information about their rights. I have witnessed these days on the ground that one of the fundamental rights in the pension system, i.e. in the situation of pensions in rural economies, is so-called. Income support. Income support and is conceived for agricultural economies that can still carry out their activities, and after years they cannot do so economically cost-effectively. In a safe environment, I can say that I quickly found a large number of people who simply had no idea in their material situation that this right belonged to them. When they have learned that it belongs to them, then there is a certain Calvary for them, which is how to get to an institution, where to turn, what form to fill out, how to get to the register, etc. Because they didn't have it all. That is why, and in such forms, it is just one example that I wanted to point out, and in such forms this help would be very helpful. As for the legal aid itself and according to which it is directed, it would in any case belong to this law to those who have the right to social care, then those who have the right to supply, but in one case and another, it is related to material opportunities. The material opportunities that are now defined as certain limits are related to the censorship of the payment of contributions. But more interesting is this part of property, real estate where practically 35 squares for one person plus 10 squares for each of the following person and plus 10 squares is the limit when it comes to apartments and housing, under which people would actually have the right to this form of support. This law and in time since it is the first reading, so I think that the first reviews in this part of 2008 must be like the date when institutions are beginning to build for the application of this right under this law, and for effective and real use then that 10 month deadline for harmonisation is necessary and necessary. What I'm afraid of is that there might be no abuse in this institute by those who knew how to use that institution of representation under official duty. In fact, it has often happened in the institution of representation under official duty that rich parents with a lot of property as a measure of child rearing who participated or organized various serious criminal indifferences actually decide not to provide legal assistance but also to say now that you can see how later you will deal with life and then the defense has actually fallen to the expense of the state, or society. This is why these mechanisms that are provided for are good, should, of course, be checked in practice and protected from such or similar abuses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-28-0.u5863	Thank you. And distinguished representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-28-0.u5864	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. and Mrs. Proposer Representatives, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I will try not to actually refer to what we have heard most of the time in this assembly and I will not talk about harmonising this proposal with the acquis in the European Union, but in any case, I must say that this law once again does not know which way, facilitates access and court and bodies that decide on the rights and obligations of Croatian citizens and foreigners so that the costs are either in full or partially borne by the state, respecting the fact that this right could not be achieved without jeopardising their abstention and abstention of members of their family. Therefore, it wants to ensure equality between all before the law and equal availability of access to court. In fact, this proposal for a law is very clear and very plasticly regulated by the implementation of legal aid, users, type and scope of the body, which will also approve legal assistance to regulate and confirm the supervision of the implementation of legal aid, and in particular Chapters contain provisions on the approval of legal aid in cross-border disputes. Persons with disabilities, otherwise the weaker property will also be easier to access to the court. By this law, the State shall make legal assistance available to persons in the status of social care, i.e. to all users under the Social Care Act. This ensures the right to access a court based on the Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms with Protocols. People who exercise the right to supply under the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families and to protect military and civilian invalids of war, and who are weaker in property. Here is Madam Representative Marija Burić-Pejcinović, who has also noticed, but I do not mind, I must also repeat that all citizens will be able to begin to exercise these rights under this law as of 1 April 2009, and during this year it is necessary to establish organisational, staff, information assumptions and carry out the necessary training of staff in order to have consistent application of the law. But what I notice as a special quality of this law is bringing down the possibility of discretionary decision-making to the least possible extent, and particularly in raising public awareness of the ways and conditions for the use of legal aid, which is financed entirely or partly from the state budget. In the end, I personally welcome and commend this provision. I sincerely refer to both the Minister and the team of experts working on the draft of this law and these are the reasons for which I will personally support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-28-0.u5865	Thank you. And the closing word on behalf of the promoter, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, respected Marina Dumovic Vukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-28-0.u5866	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. I thank you for this broad debate, and we will gather all your proposals and remarks and prepare a bill for a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-28-0.u5867	Thank you. That's what we've exhausted our agenda for today. I'm interrupting the session. It's 13 o'clock. Please once again, I call for a decision on the participation of our mission to require 102 votes and keys, keys, keys.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-28-0.u5868	Proposal for a Law on Free Legal Assistance. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. Firstly, a proposal for a law on free legal aid is adopted. Secondly, all objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law. Please engage. We can vote. Who is to propose these conclusions and who is abstention or against? Thank you. The result? This bill was sent to a second reading by most votes, 118 votes for, 3 are abstentions and nothing against. Thank you.
