ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13182	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the session with a debate on: - The proposal for a concession law, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 129; The legislator is the Government, the debate was conducted by committees on legislation, finance and the state budget and European integration. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance Zdravko Maric will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13183	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here you have it, so the draft of the Law on concessions, allow me in a few words to present it, give basic characteristics and newspapers, i.e. to present briefly and what were the reasons why we went with this proposal. The current rules governing regulated concessions were, in a good part, an insufficient framework for the more significant development of this institute, and they rarely had weaker effects on collecting concessions at local national level. However, it should be said in the beginning that in the last few years we have recorded a significant growth in concession income, but our analysis and projections have made it clear that it can be much better in terms of both fiscal impact. But actually what's also very important is the creation of a better and more transparent, more transparent atmosphere and environment. The Croatian legislative framework governing the award of concessions is currently drawn up by the Law on concessions of 1992 and about 40 specific rules of which 20 laws are the same as so many sublegal acts, which regulations contain different rules for concessions. What's partly problematic is that the '92 concession law. the year does not determine the concept and types of concessions, therefore, the concession for the provision of public services and concessions for the provision of public works provided for by the Directives of the legal property of the European Community. The concession law determines mainly in relation to the economic, economic expansion of natural resources or in relation to the construction and management of buildings and facilities which are of interest to the Republic of Croatia. For this reason, it should be said that the objective of adopting this new Law on concessions is, in fact, to create an effective legislative framework in the area of concessions and to achieve positive economic effects arising from the right to use certain types of concessions. In order to enable the creation of an efficient concession system, it is necessary to act to eliminate certain negative phenomena in this area so that the provisions of the draft concession laws are first focused on increasing the transparency of the concession system and ensuring equal competition with uniform legal protection. And secondly, to strengthen efficiency in the process of monitoring and collecting revenue from concessions with the control of the grey economy and the possibility of corrupting activities. The new Law on concessions defines three types of concessions, such as public works concessions, public service concessions and concessions for the economic use of the general and other goods. It should be said that this division is fully based above all on the adoption of all principles and concepts of the construction of the modern concession system recommended by individual international financial institutions, I will list the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund. However, what is also very important to us is that it is fully in line with the accession and application of the European Union Directives. It is also important to specify how this proposal also sought to adopt the specificities of the Croatian system and the principles of the existing legislative framework of concessions in the Republic of Croatia, in particular the part relating to the exploitation of natural resources and goods in accordance with the Croatian Constitution. The new Law on concessions provides a basic framework and a starting point for the implementation of the transparent concession procedure, for public service concessions and concessions for the economic use of the general goods or other goods, which is specifically developed and upgraded through specific laws. As regards the award of concessions for public works, the concession procedure shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Public Procurement Act and also in accordance with the legal acquis of the European Union. What is important is the same thing, I have already mentioned but just once again to point out, therefore, this way of implementing concession procedures certainly requires and the existence of a single legal protection, and in order to ensure the transparency of the system, the non-discrimination of the principle of equal competition. In this respect, this Law provides for uniform legal protection at the State Commission for the control of public procurement procedures, for the resolution in appeal proceedings for all types of concessions. Now, on the principles mentioned here, ladies and gentlemen, let me just briefly explain the most important elements of the new law. In particular, taking into account the public procurement system, it should be pointed out that the Law on concessions is called for undermining the provisions of the Public Procurement Act in the procedure of awarding concessions for public works. And what is one of the elements in which this Law is aligned with the acquis of the European Union. This way of implementing the award procedure for public works concessions is one of the resilient points of the modern legislative system that we have adopted. The application of those concession procedures enables the achievement of clear concession procedures and the achievement of the objectives set to enable the creation of an efficient concession award system as well as the development of specific models and projects, in particular models and projects based on concept models. As previously pointed out, by introducing a single legal protection against the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, we are building a clear system that will ensure a full functional concession system in the Republic of Croatia. In addition, this law makes clear the obligations of the grantor of concessions and the obligation to take all legal actions in order to ensure and implement the provisions of the Treaty on concessions relating to timely treatment in the event of non-compliance with the contract, and the installation of insurance instruments in each concession contract which will apply uniformly in all other specific laws. In this way, we seek to have an even greater impact on the increase in the collection of concession revenue as well as on the orderly enforcement and other obligations prescribed by the concession agreement. And which is part of a concession policy whose implementation is entrusted to the Government, or the Ministry of Finance. The law provides for the establishment of an expert commission in charge of taking all necessary actions in the realisation of concession contracts from the assessment of eligibility studies and the award of concessions, the setting of criteria of professional, financial and legal capacity and the establishment of documentation for competition. This allows for a realistic assessment of the value of the concession to be awarded and establishes all the elements that will allow for equal competition and therefore have built-in measures that will affect the repression of the grey economy. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, once again, I point out that it is a law that will have significant positive effects on the Croatian economy, with the assurance of all the principles of a fair competition which directly determines the jurisdiction of the other more than 30 legal and sublegal acts governing specific types of concessions. Following the adoption of the Law on concessions, the harmonisation of specific legal and sublegal acts with the new Law on concessions will result in the creation of a single legal framework which will enable us to achieve those objectives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13184	Thank you. Committees, legislation, budget, European integration? I'm opening a debate with the IDS Representatives' Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13185	Mr. Vice-President, the esteemed secretary of state, the distinguished gentlemen of this concession law is one of the longest laws in the Republic of Croatia. He was adopted far away in 1992. I am deeply convinced that at that time the intention of this concession law was fair. These are the years when it went into conversion, privatisation and let's think about it then that these issues should be regulated in some way further and concessions, for example, on the lease of agricultural or construction or what I know. tourist land. On page 2 of this Act, it is literally said that the new Law on concessions defines three types of concessions which are: concessions for public works, concessions for public services and clear concessions for the economic use of general or other goods. But what must be missing in this law and what we think about the IDS Club is the use or rather the concession over so-called. tourism and agricultural land. Come on, you still got that agricultural land mentioned in this concession law. That question is likely to be resolved by sublaws, so let's call them acts. Among other things, the issue will be treated by the Law on Agricultural Land, which will come before lawmakers soon, but we see that the Government simply does not want to resolve the status of so-called. tourist land. I just can't explain it to myself. I don't know if it makes any more sense for this Assembly speaker to talk about it, but I do know that when it comes to tourist land, agricultural land simply doesn't want to solve the issue on the left or right. Why? Probably because someone has certain benefits. Because individuals or better said capital may play in a safe way, so it sets one or the other into a political option. Finally, when we look at this conversion, when we look at this privatisation, either HDZ selectors or socialist directors participated in it, in order to even dare say that these others were getting better pieces because they were better positioned at the time. I think one such introduction may have been necessary to come simply to being and the point is why the state, why the Republic of Croatia, why this or that government, is now not important for 18 years or how long it has been since the conversion of 16 years does not want to resolve the status of so-called. tourism or agricultural land. I would quite agree with all those who, or who say, would rather not want to solve this issue because they want to benefit from the large capital that largely lords banks, who lords businesses, who lords the media, who manages clearly hotels and then clearly selecting their political option plays to safety and this one or she returns it to him by not regulating such a random, essential national issue of national interest. Now why does the government not want to solve the question so-called. tourism or agricultural land. Why is this land allowed to be used for 18 years without a single kuna? Okay. I agree. There, by 1996, the war had lost the season. The lost season was certainly 1999 due to NATO attacks on SR Yugoslavia but since 2000 there has been no reason not to settle the issue. It was simply no reason not to settle this issue in one quality way that the entire community would benefit from. What are we up for at the IDS Club? We advocate that the existing meaning of these tourist houses is understandablely advantageous over everyone else but it cannot happen or should not happen that one of these houses uses hundreds and hundreds of hectares, say so-called. agricultural or tourist land and not pay anyone a single kuna fee. It's in the right sense of the word capital bargaining. That's what I said from 1992 to this year 2008. Private capital used means hundreds and hundreds, thousands simply hectares so-called. tourist land in our campsites located in the most attractive locations along the Adriatic Sea understandably and therefore do not pay anyone any kuna fees. So that's what I said guessing private interests. In other words, everything that has happened in this period since 1992 or since 2000 to this day with tourist land all happens the same way on agricultural land. So the same house, I'd say these big, strong, powerful by the coast that I dare say even control part of the judiciary, so much for the independence of our judiciary that they've been getting solutions to book over two hundred or three hundred acres of tourist land now in the same way they're trying to register in certain parts of Istria and on agricultural land. And just before, the secretary of state said that this law has a significant or should have a significant impact on the economy. But if you give something to someone, then clearly the community cannot benefit from it. Only those who put that money in private pockets can benefit. Secondly, why doesn't that question want to be solved? One word because for a decade and now there is no political will to regulate the issue. Imagine if I didn’t know a camp, a Conversado, so you wouldn’t pay anyone anything, so everyone would get rich overnight, and we allow individuals to behave like that for 18 years. So without those questions being solved, this law is simply missing. Such a law will be unsettled, such a law is superficial and in such a law a read agreement of capital with all authorities. In this way, gentlemen, in this country, I dare say we lose hundreds and hundreds and billions of kunas a year. Where does that money end? It's known in private pockets. Article 4 refers to the subject matter of concession? Therefore, the matter of concession may be for the exploitation of mineral raw materials, for the use of water and public water goods, for the right of hunting in State hunting and game growing sites, on maritime goods, on agricultural land, on certain activities within protected areas of nature, on games for happiness, in the field of energy, for the operation of linear, coastal, maritime, river transport for ports, for public roads, for public transport, for airports in the field of sport, for cultural goods, for municipal activities in the area of railways, for the economic use of railways, for waste management activities and in other areas in accordance with the definitions of concessions referred to in Article 1(1) of this Law. Interesting that it is simply here nowhere in this legal proposal that this tourist land is not mentioned. In some ways, Article 23 provides that compensation. It is said that the concession fee is the revenue of the national budget and the budget of the units of the regional, regional and local self-government, and the share of the allocation of concession revenue referred to in paragraph 5 of this Article is prescribed by a special regulation governing these concessions. So income will be shared between the county, state, or municipalities and our cities, county and state. That's how it's supposed to be. That's commendable. It's something come on new. As a result, this lack of law should clearly be supported, although I note that without the regulation of status, it is clear that this tourist land will all be one big delusion. For the end of the day, gentlemen, let's settle this status of this tourist land. Let's not just avoid that question. It's about billions of kunas of income being poured into private plugs, and I'm saying it's just not and it can't possibly be an accident. Clearly, nothing happens by chance when it comes to regulation and/or non-regulatory of an area in the Republic of Croatia, and in particular there are no coincidences in non-regulating an area where such huge money leaks and flows from the state into private pockets. In one thing, I don't know, Medulin, for example, we're gonna tear down those little malls that were built without permission. But in such an important question, no one wants to engage. Turns out the powerful in this country can do whatever they want, but clearly, the little ones can't do anything. It turns out that the rules don't apply to rich people, but exclusively to poor people, and then it can hardly be that in this case one legal state can act. All in all, the distribution of income between local self-government and state units. The law is a step forward, but the law will be the law only after we have resolved the status of that tourist land. For example, here's only one. Yes, I remembered, because of the sun gardens in one Dubrovnik, there is a prosecution of some judges, and those who did the same thing in the Rijeka Commercial Court were thus setting up hundreds of hectares of tourist land to some companies in Istria. Nothing clear will happen to them. It's not justice, it's not honesty, it's not a judiciary. That's one thing I don't know how to say, call it a court perv, and that's what's next. The point is that some houses tried 2000, 2001, over tourist land. It's what gentlemen do now and over agricultural land. If that happens, then it's a clear responsibility to the government. We have managed to prevent in Istria the booklet of thousands of hectares of so-called tourist land, and we now warn you that it is the same, that it is reflected on agricultural land and so much we ask that it be prevented and that this land is awakened for no other reason. All in all, the other provisions of this law are fleeting. This law is not ideal, but is provided that this tourist land is also installed. So if it were installed, and in that direction it would go our amendments, then it could be raised by the same hand.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13186	Thank you. Club of HDZ Representatives Mr. Vladimir Ivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13187	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. The concession law is one of the essential areas for which we could say that the assessment of the current situation looks and is based on the current law of '92. the years, but also 40 other rules that, in different ways, with different rights, with different procedures in place, with different means of calling the concessions rights are governed by this area. In addition to the fact that this concept of concession has spread and has become virtually unrecognizable in some areas, because it has started to apply instead of leases instead of the lease, instead of the right to build, instead of the various permits that administratively grant a certain right. Also, the award procedure is entirely different from law to law, and what is quite important, and that is quite important, it is that throughout the application of the concession law, all concessions were excluded from the Public Procurement Act. Therefore, the principle of the most favourable offers under the Public Procurement Act did not apply to the entire area of concession. Of course, some parts of the concession are logical and justified because it is not actually selling anything or ordering works, but the market is given in a particular kind of way you could say the rent with which certain rights are then acquired and the principle of public procurement cannot be applied. This law now distinguishes such issues in a quality way. The aim of the new law is to introduce greater transparency by introducing a single concession procedure, introduce legal protection for participants in the award of concessions, uniform control of the payment of concession fees and the introduction of the Ministry of Finance as coordinators and controllers of that area, and the management of the concession register and concession policy. The law regulates concessions in a way that firstly, this law regulates the award of concessions, the termination of concessions, the legal protection in concession procedures and the termination of concessions and other issues related to the concession granted to domestic and foreign economic operators. The law clearly distinguishes three types of concessions according to the model already mentioned in which these areas differ. First is a concession for public works. For the public works concession, it is important that in the present system, the concept of concession in this area could often also mean avoiding the rules laid down in the Public Procurement Act, and now the application of the concession procedure under the Public Procurement Act is being introduced. Therefore, the minimum price principle is introduced, legal protection is introduced through the state procurement control commission, and the public works concession itself is a contract to regulate the legal relationship of which is the subject of the performance of works or design or both. But that's the point. The second concession for public service is an area of contract regulated legal relationship, the subject of which is the provision of one or more services in the general interest of a particular or a law governing a particular concession, etc. The concession for the economic use of the general and other goods, therefore we can talk about the concession for the area, is a contract for a regulated legal relationship whose subject is the use of general or other goods for which the law provides that it is good of interest for the Republic of Croatia and on the basis of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The concession provider shall be defined in a way that determines that the concession provider may be the Croatian Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the central authorities of the state administration, the competent authorities of the unit of local and regional self-government and the legal person under special rules authorised to grant the concession. And concession items are defined in 20 and 21 areas, respectively, and are introduced for the exploitation of mineral raw materials, for the use of water and public water goods, for hunting rights in national hunting sites and game growing sites, on maritime goods, on agricultural land, for certain activities within protected areas of nature, for gambling, in the field of energy, for the operation of linear and coastal maritime and river transport, for ports, for public roads, for public transport, for public transport, for sports, for sports, for cultural goods, for municipal activities, in the area of railways, for the economic use of railways and for waste management activities, and in other areas, and in particular can be allocated to distribution, assigned to forests and forest land. The principles of awarding concessions could be defined in such a way as to grant concessions under this law when implementing the procedure, concession providers are obliged to respect the principle of freedom of movement of goods, the principle of freedom of business and the principle of freedom of provision of services and the other fundamental principles of the Treaty on European Community such as the principle of competition, the principle of effectiveness, the principle of equal treatment, the principle of collected discrimination, the principle of mutual recognition, the principle of proportionality and the principle of transparency. The concession provider shall appoint an expert commission for the purpose of awarding concessions from the lines of prominent experts of law, economy and technical professions. In addition to an odd number and without direct and indirect personal interests, members of the commission may also be appointed members from the Ministry of Finance. As regards the harmonisation of this law with the acquiss of the European Community, this legal harmonisation shall be carried out in compliance with the basic principles, equal treatment, non-discrimination in competition, transparency, proportionality and mutual recognition. Often, a question has been asked what the content of the concession is and if it is seen in comparison with the European Community rules, it is a simple answer. First, the content of the concession is that it can be given in a concession, who decides and that concessions are granted and who grants them. These are basic issues related to the concession itself. The concession provider shall publish its intention by informing that it is important that the initial amount of concession fee must be the mandatory component of the decision and, of course, the decision shall be published in the "National Journal". The concession provider shall make a decision on the selection of the most favourable bidder to sign the concession agreement on a proposal from the Expert Commission for concessions, the time limit for decision-making must be appropriate, unless a different time limit for decision-making of the most favourable bidder is specified. It is then defined that in that case it is 30 days. However, the decision to annul the concession procedure is not possible to declare complaints, but to initiate an administrative dispute before the competent court. Before signing a concession contract relating to real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia, i.e. general and public goods, the concession provider is obliged to submit back the concession contract with the decision to choose the most favourable bidder on the pre-trial opinion to the State's attorney. The concession agreement requires that the subject matter of the concession, conditions and method of payment of concession fees, actions relating to obtaining the necessary powers to carry out activities in accordance with the concession agreement, the time limit in which the concessionary is obliged to start with a solution of the concession, the obligations of concessionaires in the field of environmental protection, sanctions and compensation for non-compliance with the obligations of the parties, the way in which the relationship is resolved in the event of termination of the concession before the end of the period to which the concession is granted, the way in which the disputes are settled, including arbitration if the parties have agreed to do so. The total value of the additional works awarded under the concession contract cannot exceed 50% of the value of the works awarded by the concession contract. The allocation of the additional works referred to in this Article shall not lead to the application of the elements of the existing concession contracts in such a way as to allow the award of concessions to another tenderer at the time of publication of the notification of the purpose of the concession. The duration of the concession must be determined to ensure depreciation, investment of concessionaires and a reasonable return of the invested capital. And at the end of the deadline, i.e. the entry into force of the law, is foreseen from 1 April 2009 as a deadline within which all other laws should experience certain changes if they are contrary to that law, so that this area is fully in line with the general law that we are discussing today and that the needs of all individual laws are met, so we said a 40 law that must comply with this law. This is why the Croatian Democratic Community Club sees a significant improvement in this important area of economic activity in Croatia and will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13188	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Honorable Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13189	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. The current legislative framework on concessions is not uniform but has been multiplely extended, so the concession institute requires amendments to the legislative framework in order to uniformise the practice of handling in the award of concessions, increase transparency and enable the implementation of uniform legal protection for all participants in the concession procedure. This law should create conditions for better transparency, reduce corruption space, narrow down the grey economy, and introduce a new stricter principle of public procurement and understanding of concessions. It is also not less important in the process of accession to the European Union to bring national legislation into line with the acquis of the European Union. The area of concession has so far been regulated by as many as 40 laws, regulations or regulations, so it is more than obvious why this law had to be proposed. The current wide-ranging legislative framework made it possible to conceal data, transfer responsibility from the institution to the institution, and the fact is that the complicated legislative solutions do not correspond to orderly business, thus losing huge money due to the spread of the grey economy, corruption and slow administration. In order to increase the effectiveness of the functioning of the concession system and to create conditions for more positive effects on the Croatian economy, it is necessary to institutionally edit what is defined by this draft law, so the Ministry of Finance is responsible for coordinating the concession policy in which the concession and concession policy register will be conducted. We are aware of the fact that the non-transparentity of the award of concessions has favoured corruption in all types of concessions, and in particular I stress the business of mineral raw materials in the first row of those related to construction. We all remember the numerous affairs around illegal quarryes, and we also remember that the state inspectorate in 2006 after 466 inspections carried out found that more than 60% of the cases of mineral raw materials were exploited illegally, which is more than 2.3 million cubic metres of raw materials worth more than 80 million kuna. In the last three years, the total value of illegally exploited mineral raw materials has exceeded half a billion kuna, and 95% of that amount refers to a technical building stone, sand or gravel. It's a treasure that's gone forever. The state and its citizens didn't get a dime out of it. Individuals and certain powers have become even richer at the expense of all of us. Therefore, increasing efficiency and achieving greater economic impacts that will be achieved through increased transparency of the concession system and strengthening efficiency in the process of monitoring and collecting revenue is one of the priorities of this law and our priority tasks. This law defines the types of concessions more precisely so they are shared in concessions for public works, public service concessions and concessions for the economic use of the general or other goods. It's thought of forests, water and ore. For the award of concessions for public works, the law calls for a specific application of the provisions of the Public Procurement Act which will create conditions for concessions to be taken away from local powers whose business is often based on non-transparent conditions. The basic principles and elements which determine the procedure of awarding concessions for public services and concessions for the economic use of general or other goods shall be laid down by the provisions of specific sectoral laws, with a clear respect for the principles and provisions of the Law on concessions. The specific laws will be able to settle two issues in the power of the application of this law and this issue of the content of the concession and of the question of who decides to grant the concession and who actually grants it. Article 10(3) states that the Ministry of Finance may propose the appointment of its representative in the expert commission. At the HSS Club, we believe that the said ministry should necessarily appoint one member as a professional commission and thus be referred to all concession processes through its representative, and we believe that it is necessary to know which persons are and to whom concessions are granted, because things should finally be set up so that both persons with a name and a last name should be allowed to hide behind certain institutions and never be sanctioned for dishonest acts. The proposal for a law does not specify whether the concession provider must make a decision in accordance with the opinion of the expert commission. We believe that this should be more precisely defined. The concession register is an electronic record of all concession contracts awarded in the Republic of Croatia. The register is a good and necessary method of systematic records because as the experience shows before the register is established, and in order to make systematic records of concessions, the Ministry of Finance has taken more than two years to draw up a register to list and collect all contracts that the state has given the right to exploit national wealth, public goods, infrastructure and provide different services of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia. So far, it has been a space for data protection, corruption, theft of national wealth, and the introduction of systematic records will surely reduce the number of attempts at such access and increase budget revenues from which all citizens of the Republic of Croatia should benefit clearly. The Croatian Peasants' Club supports that the concession procedure is transparent, that all interested participants of the tender have equal treatment without individual stretches of the like, and that any action that gives an unfair, unfavourable advantage to any of the interested persons is adequately sanctioned with appropriate penalties which will also psychologically block unhonorable moves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13190	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13191	Mr. Vice President, State Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club will support the proposed concession law. The SDP agrees that this concession law increases transparency of the concession system. We even conclude that if the law is strictly implemented, an even match will be made possible. The proposed solutions will also allow quality control in the realisation of concession contracts and, of course, a far better quality way of collecting funds for concession contracts. The SDP Club also considers that the built-in provisions of the Public Procurement Act in the award procedure for public works concessions are a quality solution offered in this law. The SDP also agrees with the solution to institutionalise the concession policy coordination body and be the Ministry of Finance. We estimate that in such a way, the Ministry of Finance will manage the concession register in a quality way, and that it will also unite the policies of concessions far more well, and the policies that concession donors will bring. We estimate as a SDP club that we might need to develop some articles of this law so that in the second reading we have an even better quality law ahead of us. The SDP Club estimates that Article 3 is clearly indicated that concession providers are the Croatian Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the central state bodies of the administration, the competent authorities of the units of local and regional self-government and the legal person with special regulations. But we appreciate that a better quality law would be if in several teaching articles we try to define who is at which point making a decision on concessions and awarding concessions and that it is not subject to a special contract as explained and indicated, because we estimate that only with a few articles could solve this problem and that it would then be a better solution in the law. The SDP Club also considers that Article 4 indicates 19 areas where the concession can be granted. We agree here with the IDS club that one of the major problems is tourism land and therefore we think that we have enough time to try to install the concept of what is tourist land until the second reading. It is evident that part of the building land that was in the building areas of the hotel is neither agricultural nor touristic, that it is building land and that once we have to break down the doubt whether the hotel owners who bought the shares of power will now, under privileged conditions, buy that building land. And it is evident that this should be resolved outside of the Law on concessions, that it is building land for development, but tourist land in terms of camps, in terms of areas along the sea and lakes and rivers can be solved by the Law on concessions. And I think that the legislator, the competent ministry, could propose another solution to the government and that we could in some way put an end to the story about tourist land, the conversion that remained unsettled in the part and the building land, but also land that is bordered, I would say, touching maritime or water goods and thus solving the concession rights of companies to use such land, and that in some way we do this effort and modifying Article 4, by supplementing Article 4, we solve this issue which has not been resolved since the first day of conversion. The SDP Club also considers that Article 5 is the day of exemption from the application of the Law on concessions relating to, I would say, our regulations or regulations which are under the regulations of secrecy are probably in the domain of the defence of the country and will not apply this law, so that we do not talk about those international agreements, international organisations to which this law will not apply. But the SDP club believes that Article 9 has no place in this law and we suggest that the promoter delete Article 9. Therefore, if we already define Article 5 of those situations in which we will not apply the law, where we apply it, and we call for transparency, then the secrecy of the data should not be. It is simply the use of both public works and public areas, services and it is evident that transparency and the public must be complete. I think that time of transition from the '90s to the day that we had, I'd say a series of contract clauses when we simply, if you remember both telecommunications and INA privatized, so some concepts of the contract remain secret, I don't think we should build it up anymore, and at least through legal solutions. Therefore, all our efforts to announce that this text of the law will be transparent, that in future we will have transparent relations, that we will have procedures transparent with one Article 9 which is poorly defined, only in principle indicated, we will again raise doubts, recommendations, and that I mean we do not need or simply if we should do something, then better resolve it by exemption from the law, and in some ways we will not apply the concession and then there is no secrecy, but there is no application of concession. Therefore, the SDP club suggests that Article 9 be re-examined and Article 9 ostensibly omitted. Also, perhaps suggestions in Article 22. We regulate the award of additional works to concessionaries, which will be carried out, I would say by the basis of the Public Procurement Act, but remains always what is fundamental, whether it is possible to do all this and with a value of up to 50% above agreed. Is that a quality solution? Is this covering a series of gaps in the decision-making process for awarding concessions? And when it comes to concessions, it should probably be much lower, so the SDP club suggests that in Article 22, the value in point 3, meaning up to 50%, maybe adjusted to less, maybe adjusted to less than 25%, because the simple concession process has to be of quality. There will be policies to be supervision of the Ministry of Finance, all of which points to us that the big difference should not be, and the number 50 is too big. And of course, when we talk about Article 42 of the entry into force of this law, we want to point out that we agree that it takes a lot of time to have all those accompanying acts, other laws that relate to the domain of concessions harmonised and that it is normal to expect that before April 1st of next year, such a law would hardly come into force. But a clear suggestion, that in the second reading in the explanation, the proposer makes it very clear what laws are, is at this point we don't have them listed, we're just talking about a large number and we're getting the dynamics of harmonisation by that deadline. Why? To truly be sure as legislators that, within that time limit, all existing acts that will regulate the issue of concessions and then try to assess whether the deadline is 01. 04th and real or maybe he's also ambitious. Therefore, the SDP club suggests that in the second reading in the text of the reasoning, it clearly lists all the texts of the law, decisions and sublaws that must be harmonised before the law enters into force and then realistically assess whether it is 01. 04. 2009 is a real deadline for the adoption of a new law. So once again, the quality text, the good text, and I would say the intentions, we want to achieve with this law, the quality solutions, and then the suggestion that we might also make these efforts to address some of the recommendations that we have made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13192	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Honorable Representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13193	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable state secretary, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The existing legislative framework which regulates the area of concessions has been determined by the Law on concessions, I would say from 1992 and a series of other specific laws and sublaws containing different rules for concessions, which is reflected in the indifference of the procedure in the award of concessions and proper protection for all participants in the concession procedure. In particular, the existing Law on concessions does not determine the concept and types of concessions, which are provided for by the directives of the legal property of the European Community, such as the concession for the provision of public services and the concession for the provision of public works. It already determines concessions in relation to the economic exploitation of natural resources or the construction and management of buildings and facilities that are of interest to the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, the concept of concessions itself is not sufficiently defined in relation to other legal terms, and the way in which concessionaries are awarded and selected is subject to the diversity of the prescribed rules laid down by specific laws. Although the majority of the special laws provide legal protection in the second instance, as well as professional protection against the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia, it does not delay the execution of the award decision. In light of the current negative experience in implementing the concession system, the new law aims to increase transparency and ensure equal market competition with uniform legal protection, as well as to strengthen efficiency in the process of monitoring and collecting revenues. In this respect, as is common in the countries of the European Union, the Ministry of Finance is designated as the body responsible for coordinating concession policies in the Republic of Croatia, which implies all measures and activities aimed at establishing and maintaining an effective concession system and the establishment and management of the concession register. The new Law on concessions defines three types of concessions and these concessions for public works, public service concessions and concessions for the economic use of the general or other goods. The basic principles and elements governing the award of these concessions are laid down as the procedures for the award of a particular type of concession are regulated by specific laws with respect to the principles and provisions of the Law on concessions. Legal protection is uniquely determined through the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for all types of concessions and will apply to specific laws and regulations. The law insists on the obligations of the concessionor and the duties of confiscation of all legal actions in order to ensure the enforcement of the provisions of the concession contract, thus achieving greater efficiency in the collection of revenue from concession fees as well as the execution of all other obligations set out in the concession contract. This legislative proposal also harmonizes national legislation with the acquis of the European Union and the legal acts of the Council of Europe, not only in the definition of concessions of services and works but also in the creation of legal conditions to allow for the maximum public award of concessions, in order to enable non-discrimination and equality in the competition for concessions and also to increase the effectiveness of awarding concessions and its implementation. For all things, I support the adoption of a new Law on concessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13194	Thank you. It is up to Commissioner Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13195	Thank you. Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a concession law and this proposal for a law on public procurement that we are about to discuss here and which is on the agenda is one of the fundamental laws on how to actually see whether a country is really fighting corruption. This should be anti-corruption laws because everything we write, what we say, what we verbalize how this is done is best seen whether we have serious will through these two laws, through the Law on Public Procurement and the Law on concessions. This law, of course, was to be adapted to the European Directive 2004 on public procurement in which the exploitation of natural resources, as well as public procurement, was to be awarded according to public procurement rules or by public competition. Is that so? All these good solutions, all of these solutions that are absolutely in agreement with this 2004 European Directive, fall into the water with this article, which Slavko Linić spoke of on behalf of the SDP club, when we say and postulate the sentence in this article, which bears the name of the secrecy of the data. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. And for what, please? Isn't the income from concessions the income of the state budget? Isn't that public income? Isn't that the revenue in the budget that the public has the right to know about? Why is this especially us here at the SDP club apostrophe? In fact, there is no doubt and this should indeed be commended that over the last three years, 1.53 billion kuna has been collected from the concessions, and it is, it is, to be commended and confirmed, an increase of 150% of the revenues collected from the concessions and it is indeed commendable. So, it was better to charge, but the question is, why haven't there been an increase in concession fees for years, prices, because this actually shows how we protect our national wealth, how much we care about it, whether it's for sale, whether it's for sale. Because if the concession is that for a large number of years for a low concession fee, it's better than to give someone away because there are no other obligations as the owner who would have on such natural resources. So it is better to enjoy the benefits of the first privileged concession that was given anyway, but here we hope that how much we will end it, but the question of these fees is still raised. And why have these prices not increased in recent years? Especially since our citizens are all experiencing energy shock together, energy shock. Here, the morning has reunited blue diesel and diesel. Therefore, the question arises, in addition to this good and enhanced payment control, why the amounts of concession fees have not been adjusted in a timely manner, primarily for the extraction of domestic oil, natural gas from the Adriatic coast and the exploitation of other domestic energy raw materials, because in the national budget then, much higher funds could be accumulated and we could use them for structural support. And again I ask the question why would you hide that revenue from the state budget from concessions. The question also arises whether we have a serious will then to implement such a proposal for a concession law when, before 15 days ago, the minister declared the official secret exactly the information on the question of a journalist who is our biggest concessionaires and what these concession fees are, and not on the basis of the existing law, because the law itself did not prevent it, but under the law or law, it was only an excuse to pass the concession register and then, in that register, as a sublegal document of some kind of law, the government itself, that is, the government itself finds itself invited nothing to declare it secret or precisely because of that. INA’s extraction of domestic oil satisfies about 25% of our domestic needs. However, despite the unrealistically low prices of fuel sold by INA, the same thing as oil and those oil derivatives that we get or which cost and which are purchased on the international market, and here they have already crossed the price of $120 per barrel. So instead of the increased revenues of the state budget, who has the profit achieved? It's got the INA itself, and here we see what's going on and how the roads lead. So when they had such concessions where they were absolutely owned by the state and the INA and those concessionaries who were pulling out our natural gas. We know that big field, the Marica area, it was still kind of logical while it was all state-owned. But there's no reason or justification, especially for the future if we're bound by concession contracts. So the same question arises not only here with these energys which has been most worrying us lately but is the question of what is and how do we protect our remaining natural resources or our non-renewable resources like forests, ports? So now I'm just gonna mention it on this occasion. We pass one law, then a couple of parallel laws that relativize it all. This is an example of primary, primary concessions at ports that were eventually established for social significance in order for workers who were once employed in these social companies to become shareholders to become co-owners. However, not only because of business but above all the generally known facts about how small shareholders most often sold their shares, so here you now have in the amendments to the law that took place a year and a half ago on maritime, maritime ports and maritime good, so that and those primary concessions, the primary concessions that later on, which, when they changed owners, therefore, this as a sort of right carries that possibility suddenly. It's not, so they can be strangers. Here I am, and today you don't know who the real owner of the Zadar port is right now. That's the fact that happened to the Zadar port. Therefore, here is a bill of law if and given what has happened so far, it has been self-initiatively declared a secret in no way, so this whole law does not benefit unless there is an end to Article 9 of the secrecy of the data, because the public has the right to know who it is, who received the concession, which area, which, at the end of the day, and which, in the end, is precisely that the others who claim to receive the concession of preparation so that they can participate in some future competition for the use of these natural resources. So here I repeat the whole, the good law will not make any sense if this provision of Article 9 survives because I repeat the revenues that are thus incomes, public revenues, the revenues of the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13196	Thank you. We have one replica. Dear Representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13197	It may not be unclear for a colleague to ask rhetorically who owns the port of Zadar. You know very well who owns that Zadar port. The owners are people bound, unfortunately, I must say that with the ruling party. Let's remember, Mr. Jarnjak, let's not waste time, just to remind you that the Zadar-Galženica 200 million kuna road leading right to that port has jumped to 600 million kuna. And then when the state gave those 600 million kunas to build it, then suddenly the port changed its owner. And the minister spoke for 3 months as a minister of transport, of maritime transport and of what he did not know who owned that port or who bought it, and they bought it as the public buzzes, and in Zadar everyone knows that his personal friends. And let's not pretend we don't know. Croatia is a relatively small country. Four and a half million people and everything is well-known who is behind such transactions. Unfortunately, Brussels also knows that, and therefore we have some problems. But Brussels is completely irrelevant. The citizens of the Republic of Croatia are important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13198	Thank you. Let's go, let's move on with the debate. Dear Representative Ivan Vukic. He's gone. I'm sorry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13199	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I welcome the adoption of this law. I welcome it also because it goes into two readings and that the remarks and representatives and clubs, the ones that are justified, those that are not politicised as just before this replica will surely be accepted by the proponent and, until the second reading, try to install in the final draft of the law. It is known that the current Croatian legislative framework in the award of concessions is regulated by 20 laws. Likewise, with 20 sublegislative acts and perhaps more that the management of concessions and those of concession providers and concessionaires, the legislative framework created problems in the management of the concessions provider as well. The legislative framework is from 1992 and it is certainly good that the new law is now on the agenda. The concessionaries' provisions were prescribed in different ways. Problems in managing and awarding concessions. Problems in the appeal procedure that excluded the application of the concession regardless of complaints. The previous ones also said the problems that the concessionaries had to manage... I would also point out the problems in concessions on state land that concessionaries had as hunting companies, and also fishing companies, problems whose authority if the concession on one lake or on a river was won by a hunting society, so whether the concession to a fishing society or someone who managed waters was a conflict of the legislative framework. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this law it regulates and I really think this is one of the better laws that we've brought here. The new law is certainly commendable. A legislative framework for transparency is being established in the concession process. Also in the process of appeal, in the procedure of collection. It is also good to introduce a concession register, that the Ministry of Finance will, as competent for this activity, at any time know who the concession is awarded to or whether the grantor or the recipient of the concession fulfils his obligations under the contract. The award of concessions, concessions is introduced for public works, for public services. Also, the concession for the use of general goods regulated and the good part giving of concessions and the Public Procurement Act. I'd like to say a few words maybe about an article that might not be clear enough for me. Therefore, Article 4 which refers to the subject matter of the concession, paragraph 1. He says the concession can be awarded for hunting rights in national hunting sites and game breeding sites. I wonder if it's just national hunting grounds? Why not for county hunting grounds, because county hunting sites are also well on state land. Maybe I don't get it, so here's when you take the word, you can explain it a little bit. Furthermore, in the same Article 4 of the concession can be awarded on forests and forest, the concession cannot be granted on forests and forest land. This little concession can't be awarded on forest land is unclear whether it means that the concession provider can't award concessions on forest land, for example for the ski course, for the hunting grounds. I think maybe the article is necessary either for the construction of sports fields, cableways or the like. It is therefore a concession on forest land owned by the State. I believe this will certainly be clarified by the second reading, and I personally support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13200	Thank you. Dear Representative Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13201	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Everything with this bill would be fine, everything would be fine if there was no famous article 9. He is obviously so important to the legislator that he has included him in a special chapter called the secrecy of the data, and that chapter in the law meets only that one article, Article 9. What does Article 9 say? In order to comply with the obligations laid down in this Act, the provisions on the confidentiality of data as governed by the provisions governing the confidentiality of data, plural shall apply accordingly. The regulations they regulate mean more than one of them. As far as I know, we have the Law on the Secrecy of Information, and that is one regulation, and this article does not refer to that law, but to some regulations, without knowing who they are. So obviously some sublegal acts are the same rules, so now some kind of sublegal act, so maybe it's just passed, and based on this law, it can prescribe what's secret. If there's a law in which there shouldn't be confidentiality provisions, then it's this law, if it even exists. And now I imagine we put a provision like this as a norm in every legal proposal. Nothing else would be known in Croatia, nor could it become known. This is the standard described in this way, written completely vaguely and broadly. It's absolutely unimaginable to enter any law, especially the concession law. Now, why is it important that she doesn't come? When it comes to concessions and the use of mineral raw materials, which is the subject area of this law, then we have to take care of, say, 60% of mineral raw materials when it comes to gravel and sand used illegally by inspectorates. That's what you do through concessions. He's looking for a concession to build a pond. Then he gets a concession for the pond, and in order to make a pond he has to dig up that gravel to even get a pond. And then in the process of actually building a pond for which he got concession he pulls out gravel, so he illegally sells it and doesn't pay taxes for that gravel to anyone, and so over concessions he actually robs the country's mining wealth. Why this creepy 60 percent data? Is it too little of an inspector, or is it looking through your fingers, or is it actually legal, legal to allow someone to generate extra profits, because you give them a concession for one, and then you look at how he exploits that concession. Another important area why this article must not remain inside is oil. That's what we're talking about here. You see, INA has a concession for oil extraction as a mining wealth that is of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia, it writes in the Constitution and pays a fee from 2.6 to 3.5 dollars per barrel to the state. Exploitation of this INA oil costs $30 per barrel, and that same oil that is the country's mineral wealth, it's the property of the citizens of this country, yours, mine, of all citizens. It sells the citizens of this country $145 per barrel as if it were Kuwaiti oil, and that's where profits are made, so an extra profit of at least $100 per barrel. Now how much INA exhausts you, how much it pulls those oil out. Seven million ballers a year. It covers a quarter of the needs of the Republic of Croatia. Seven million barrels, so the difference is one hundred dollars per barrel, that's 700 million dollars, that's three billion kuna a year. And that 3.5 billion kuna a year, we don't know where they end up. First of all, we don't know what kind of government policy it is now that for such a shamelessly low price that hasn't changed since the time of Yugoslavia gives INI the concession to draw the country's mineral wealth, to make that extra profit, and then the citizens pay it out of their pocket. So look, if the price were a concessional difference, then a liter of that gasoline could be cheaper in Croatia and the citizens would feel it in their pocket. But it's obviously not in the interest of this government. Well, of course it's not in their best interest because then it takes both VAT on that oil and on that gas, so that's what Shuker's offering the budget. The worst part is now we're reading in the paper that those INA shares are going to be given to MOLU, in exchange for some MOL shares. It is, but it must, if it draws oil somewhere else, it is not Croatian oil, it is not the mineral wealth of Croatia. And when those shares are replaced, the citizens of Croatia will have nothing of it. But if we give them shares of INA, we give them that concession right, that for $2.50 a barrel they take out our oil and then they sell it to us at $145. And now for all of this, I couldn't tell you everything if this law of yours was worth it, because it would all be a secret. And since it's a concession and how much oil it draws and how much it sells. And now we're going to declare it a secret and then somebody's going to make 3.5 billion kuna a year without knowing what and why. And no one can say anything about it because it'll all be a secret. So our first job is to get this out, this article... First, not to be a secret, and then when it's no longer a secret, when it can be spoken of publicly, we can also ask a public question why INA and MOL provide 3.5 billion kuna extra profits on the burden of the citizens of this country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We must get answers to these questions as responsible parliamentarians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13202	Thank you. Dear Representative Goran Beus Richembergh, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13203	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, the area governed by this Act is quite broad, in technical terms, it is actually concessions, but when you look at what they are all for, or approve of concessions, then it is a very broad area, the management of public goods, cultural goods, especially transport infrastructure, then works in construction, and what is particularly important, by the availability, i.e. by the management of mineral raw materials. Unfortunately, it's a major area of chaos so far, and I'd dare say it's illegal. Some examples mentioned by fellow Stazic can be named without any problems, I will also present them later, from which one who is in charge, which is already the Ministry of Finance does not do his job properly or does not do it at all in this area of surveillance and protection of public interests. Generally speaking, I welcome the efforts to regulate this area, to introduce clear and transparent procedures into the concession system, to establish records, to introduce control and control mechanisms, as the area of concessions is a potential area of major corruption. On the other hand, it is an area of conflict of interest. It is good that Article 10 defines that a member of the competent commission cannot be a person of any kind of personal interest and thus should be treated by the state administration and all ministries and without that article. And not that what happened to us a few days ago when we got the information in public and confirmed that in a commission that decides on the amount of compensation paid to the owners of the ponds because of the birds, there is a man who owns one of the largest farms, or so on. The black-milk zone. And that's why I'm gonna make it up to myself for what his birds eat a year. Furthermore, this law is necessary because existing practice is totally unacceptable, especially in the mineral raw materials management zone, so, gravel, clay, sand, stone. There are numerous cases that show that there are cats and mice playing with the state. Here's an example, on the application of the city's capital of Velika Gorica, a large gravel or exploitation field in my city, police shut down and plambered twice, establishing that there were no necessary permits and documents. Both times the intervention from the Government and, according to the Office for Economy, the Office of the State Administration of the Economy in Zagreb County is open, the drive is allowed to continue its work on the basis of some sort of mining permit and this is a very broad term and in fact is not known who oversees the whole process. Whether this can only be done with a mining permit or whether it is necessary to have a fully regulated concession procedure and to fulfil all the conditions. The seine that this is about, for two years, has been bound, so the deadline for the state inspection in which it has to carry out an environmental impact study has expired. Of course he doesn't. The example of illegal gravel in Zagreb County is at least 30 in Zagreb's entire ring. I remind you, illegal gravel is a cancer wound for the environment because the crater itself that creates is a cavern in the environment. Believe it or not, the recovery of illegal gravel costs more than the gravel that was extracted from it. These pebbles, by order of certain inspections, are filled with garbage, construction waste and in the case of whistles, and since it is a water protection area, all these toxins are dissolved, washed into water layers. Furthermore, we have reported one such gravel man coming out of the gauge of the exploitation field and not only coming out of the gauge as far as the economic profit he's making, but directly endangers the city's wastewater purifier. A criminal application has also been filed recently because the state's attorney's office has accepted our proposal. Nothing's going on, they're still doing whatever they want. It is known that the exploitation field is restricted by borders and that the provision, therefore, is in the contract or as it is already called a document allowing for concessions or mining permits, determines the way in which the space from which the exploitation is to be taken care of. The logic is that in the last years of using such a deadline you must begin to resuscitate. This is not done or has such effective control. As for the articles of this proposed law that have already been discussed and I join the appeal to delete Article 9. He's simply a space for a great abuse. The Minister of Finance often uses certain legal provisions on the confidentiality of information to deny the public the information required. Let's remember how he responded to the information about what football players paid for, who didn't pay the transfer tax. It's said, it's tax secrets. Whatever you're asking, and it has to do with the tax, it's actually packed into a tax secret. Today, tomorrow when the public is really interested in knowing who concession holders are, or users, how much they pay for that exploitation at all. They'll say, we're sorry, according to Article 9. There's nothing we can tell you about the concession law. It's a place of abuse. Delete that article and we'll be much quieter. As regards Article 23, which lays down the principles, i.e. the procedure for determining the level of concession fees, I point to one trap here, because such a defined Article 23 states, among other things, that concession fees will be made, that the concession fees for the income of the state and budget are units of the regional, regional and local self-government. This means that all concessions are both income and each other's and third's budgets. That's what it says here. Now, says the ratio of the distribution of income will be determined by special regulations, and a special regulation cannot be passed unless the Ministry of Finance has given you consent. What does that mean? That in the provision of your document that you are working as a unit of local and regional self-government you cannot determine the ratio if the Ministry of Finance has not given you consent. Guess what kind of relationship the Ministry of Finance will distribute. Whether in favour of local and regional self-government or in favour of the state. So these days we are witnessing right in the Croatian Parliament a whole set of laws that are actually introducing centralization into many areas. Let's see what we've done by amending the Income Tax Act. So in the middle of the year, we started introducing elements that threaten regional and local budgets. In this way, we continue this process of centralization so that the state controls more and more, and increasingly leaves less to local self-government. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13204	Thank you. And distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13205	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. It seems at first sight that the proposal for this law introduces order in the area of award of concessions. However, when promoted as closely as colleagues have debated today, it is seen that there are many doubts about this bill which, in addition to the Public Procurement Act, should actually form the basis for anti-corruption action and all anti-corruption laws, the law in the Republic of Croatia. Citizens justifiably expect us to have a good law, a good bill and a debate of the Law on the award of concessions, but here I will also make some concerns, and some examples that have occurred in the recent past. Therefore, under the designation PV, there is also a field of so-called ‘Psavina’ in Brod-Posavina County. Calcite, one mineral ore that is excellent with its quality and soiling composition calcium, so for alkalizing soil, but also for producing livestock food. However, from that field in the municipality of Pokkallje, Brod-Posavina County, for years, this stone and the scattered county roads were exported, as well as the Slavonski Brod-Zupanja highway, and no one paid any concession fee and the state was damaged by about 500 million kuna. He bit a donkey wolf. We hope that this new bill will bring about some improvement, introduce order in the award of concessions, that there will be an improvement in the efficiency of the concession system, but here, do not lie the devil, in point 9, the secrecy of the data. The secrecy of the data that actually puts in place casts doubt on the sincere intentions of the legislator of this law. In fact, the article which speaks, I think that the 5th, which speaks about the legal remedy after the award of the concession, is about the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia, but that the possible launch of the administrative dispute does not delay the execution of the decision on the award of the concession. The dispute that arises afterwards, including compensation for damages, is settled by courts of general jurisdiction of the municipal and county courts. I wonder if even then the provision of Article 9 will apply, and what if the court removes that mark if it can be downloaded and we can come to the fact that it was wrong to choose concessionaires, which is a pity and who will compensate for the damages to those who have fallen into the concession procedure. Clearly, this is a proposal for a law on concessions for public works, for public services and for the economic use of general or other goods, and later on in the text of this proposal, we see that it is also agricultural land. They also say in their reasoning in Article 1 that these concessions can be granted to domestic and foreign economic operators. Thus, full freedom of liberalisation of concessions and over agricultural land. What will it mean for us in Slavonia, I can only assume. In Article 37, too, what I was talking about concerns, Article 37 of point 5e is said in the event of an annual withdrawal of the plan from the presented medium-term three-year concession plan, the assessment of the annual fee for each concession is discussed. I wonder if it's a change of plans or if it's something else. So this is what someone has asked the question, it seems that Ms. Honorable Representative Antičević Marinvoic, has not changed the level of concession for years by the competent authorities of the Croatian state. And what I'm saying puts me in doubt, and I don't get it, so this is the ratio between the compensation, between the budget of the state and the budget of the district and local self-government. I won't speak on purpose regionally, because we don't actually have a region other than statistical ones, so this is a funny name for regionals, right, that Article 23. I would also say a little blurry article 22, in which no one has mentioned here, and says that the concession provider may, in accordance with the provisions of the regulations, grant the concessionary the right to carry out additional jobs, works which are not listed in the concession contract, in the amount of 50% of the amount of the concession. 50% of the value of the concession. So the extra papers can be arranged with the concessionaire. Is it not a fairly large amount of 50% and is it not once again one basis for a variety of ways to go around what we were talking about, so that this law is considered to be the basis of an anti-corruption action, one action in terms of conflict of interest if this Article 22 continues to stand. Clearly, the bill is an improvement compared to what was before, it is clear that it is also that the centralisation and roles of the Ministry of Finance are being made, and especially in relation to the distribution between the state budget and the budget of the regional and local self-government, but since I believe that this is progress compared to earlier, I think it is acceptable, with some addition of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13206	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary Zdravko Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13207	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here in the end as the closing word let me express my personal and from my colleagues the pleasure of today's debate. In particular, we have heard some very constructive and constructive suggestions, suggestions and comments that we will take into account and believe and install in the proposal of the Law on concessions. Well, I'd just like to look at some of those points briefly. We started with tourist land in any case our intention was not to deliberately abandon tourist land and we can accept that comment and suggestion in any case. We know ourselves, and I think that we are all aware that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is very clear in its economic policy regarding the tourism activity sector as one of us can say strategic but generally very important economic activities. As for the commentary that the Ministry of Finance not only can but that it should appoint its representative to the commission, we also respect that comment, in any case the intention of why we may have made it a little more relative is a clean situation of administrative capacity that in the Ministry of Finance we have people enough but never enough again for such a number of concessions. But I say it one more time, we take that into account. As for the SDP's remarks on who grants concessions to be further defined, we also accept and we will take this into consideration. As for the final article of the draft plan law, the law that we are planning to pass, regulations and activities, I can say that we will deliver a hodogram from which the Ministry of Finance has already drawn up and from which we will see precisely and clearly what our timetable is until that 1.4th entry into force of this law. Also, as far as hunting and hunting grounds are concerned, it can be done on county property in any case. As for the forest, this article in Article 4 which we have put into effect this one exemption for forests, i.e. not applying to grant concessions for forests, should, in any case, distinguish the concepts of concessions from the service itself in the forest. So we're going to take that comment into account, but I don't think it's that controversial. And what I have to say here in the end, I'm sorry to say personally that I haven't reacted before, because this article 9 has obviously brought a lot of confusion and perhaps in one way I would say not fully understanding what we wanted. In any event, in any event, such secrecy shall not apply to any cover-up of any information or details of concession contracts. I have to say here that you know yourself and we mentioned in the debate several times and the Register of concessions at which the Ministry of Finance has intensely already, we can say two and more years running and that Register of concessions, you will see when it is published how new and actually give and show, in fact, it is actually a clear signal that it was made in a transparent and open way. So, in any case, as regards the observations on the clause or article 9 on secrecy, this was part of the harmonisation or, in fact, it was a alignment with the European Union directives on the same matter as it says, so the secrecy of data set out in some other regulations, so what we said to the plural, is not just a law on the confidentiality of data, it's a law on public procurement and some of the other legal acts. However, we can accept that we might consider it and perhaps define it in more detail. But I would once again refer to this very secrecy and observation of the distinguished representative who said that chaos and lawlessness are working in this sector or in the activity of concessions. I don't even think that I should replicate it, that the distinguished representative Antičević-Marinović herself said and commended the achievements precisely in terms of collecting revenue from concessions that have indeed recorded a significant growth in the past four years, and that is just one of the indicators that says that this system is still well under control. And this new law puts it in maximum control exactly as I said in the opening statement, so first of all, the creation of a transparent framework and system that will open space for other and legal and sublegal acts, but all in the direction that the concession system is fully regulated, and on the other hand to get maximum positive effects both on the revenue of the budget we talked about. However, I would also refer to the introduction, the IDS Club mentioned economic growth or general economic impact, the creation of a transparent framework and a system that has positive effects on both the state budget and the economy. I think we'll all support it anyway. And finally, the latest comment by the esteemed representative Grubisic on the compensation. That's what Mrs. Anticevic-Marinović mentioned. So this new law opens up the same possibility as so-called. the subsequent and negotiation, i.e. this article which you mentioned about the fees to be delivered. Each plan will contain a proposal or their projection for that day of the year, however, the possibility of re-negotiation to re-audit the price. Here, I thank you again anyway. I repeat once again, about this Article 9, I must once again say that, of course, to the Government and the Ministry of Finance, in no way was there any intention of prescribing any secrecy, everything will, of course, be transparent and accessible to you both to the MPs, of course to the public. All concession revenues are very clearly seen as a item of the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13208	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13209	12, Proposal for a concession law, first reading, P.Z. No. 129. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the following conclusions. Firstly, the proposal for a concession law is adopted. Secondly, all comments, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get on with it. Let's vote on the proposal for a conclusion. The result? The bill was passed by a majority vote with 102 votes in favour, 4 abstentions and 1 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13210	We are going to the next item - Final proposal of the Budget Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 115 The proposer of the law is the Government. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, European Integration, Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance Zdravko Maric will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13211	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. So before you is the Final Proposal of the Budget Act. I'd say here's a few things about that law. The Budget Act itself regulates the area of public finances and sets out the basic preconditions needed primarily for ensuring fiscal discipline, quality management of public funds stemming from strategic planning and macroeconomic stability. Currently, the existing and applicable law of 2003 we can say and give it certainly not only a passing but a very satisfactory assessment, because at the moment he obtained his results and effects so that he served as one basic instrument of setting and fiscal and other actually discipline. However, in the meantime and in fact by developing our system of public finances, but in general, economic growth and development of Croatia, of course, shows the need for further updates and further upgrading of this existing Budget Law. I would also point out that the amendments, i.e. this new Budget Law, are part of the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia to join the European Union, which provides for an amendment to this Budget Act. Among other things, it requires that clauses or provisions and articles of multiannual planning be incorporated, the transfer of non-executive commitments in the following year, greater flexibility in the implementation of the budget, and also that restrictions on the borrowing of units of local and regional and regional self-government do not apply to projects co-financed by the European Union funds. Let me, ladies and gentlemen, briefly present to you what newspapers this new law or bill of law is making in relation to the current one. Under 1st is therefore the introduction of strategic planning and the development of a three-year government programme strategy to directly affect the location of funds within the budget. I must say here that the European Commission's report on the accession or progress of the Republic of Croatia in 2007 also points out in part of the economic criteria that there is certainly room for progress in this area and that this link between strategic and budgetary planning can and should be strengthened. The Croatian Parliament, or representative body at local level, also adopts a budget for one financial year and projections for the following two. In addition, the Croatian Parliament, or the representative body, at local level, brings the budget to a higher level of economic classification, or level of so-called sub-groups or level 3 compared to current level 4 subsections. The projections would be adopted at level 2 of the economic classification. Let me only make two remarks here. So this adoption of the budget to so-called. A higher level, at the sub-group level, is one of the key mechanisms that will give the ministries and other state bodies certain flexibility in the implementation of the budget, as they are the ones responsible for implementing their programmes, but in line with the adopted budget. However, it should also be said that the current level of reporting in the half-year and annual report on the implementation of the budget will be maintained or maintained so that, above all, you Parliamentarians and the Croatian public would not be denied any information. What was under discussion at individual committees before this plenary session, I can say that there were just a few questions about this so-called. A higher level. I have to say here that's one very technical term from our calculation plan, so budgetary terminology, so that third level or sub-group level. The paper also, which, in this new, or final draft of the Budget Act, is the inclusion of guarantees and consent on units of local and regional self-government, that in municipal societies and other legal entities owned by local units is within the scope of the possible borrowing of that unit of local, regional self-government, as well as the ex-ante consent of the finance minister to units of local and regional self-government which wish to provide guarantees, i.e. the consent of companies owned. This is one of the topics that I am sure will also be one of the main ones in today's debate, so in any case, I would like to say that, in parallel with this, we should pay attention to the fact that in this proposal for a law, the final draft of the Budget Act, we have also installed provisions on borrowing in relation to the public private partnership model. And finally, let me conclude, ladies and gentlemen, that is to say that this law, that is, the Final Proposal of the Budget Act, fully supports two basic rules of financial management, so-called "the final draft of the Budget Act". a golden rule which says that borrowing and borrowing is allowed to finance investments and business is financed from business revenue. And secondly, this is a rule of sustainable investment by which borrowing must not cross the line above which debt service becomes difficult. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13212	Thank you. Committees on legislation and European integration, finance, the state budget. I'm opening a debate. IDS representative club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13213	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State. Here is the concession law, just before we heard the secretary of state, everything will be installed, all remarks by the representatives in this new law, but not by the remarks on tourist land, meaning land that did not enter the core capital of privatised companies under Article 47. So someone in this country is still going to hunt in a blur, but what are you gonna do? The Istrians would say that the world was created for furbes, meaning cunning, not fair and naive. But let us now release the Law on concessions and let me look back with a few words on this Law on the budget of P.Z.E. No. 115. This law means you need to follow in two ways. First, as the government observes it when it talks about the control of the borrowing of local self-government, which I agree can generally end up through the collection of services on the back of citizens, I don't know through higher water tariffs, for communals, for the transport of garbage, for parking, etc., then this measure aims to control inflation movements, but secondly, if this form of borrowing is stopped through commercial companies, and I will talk about it later, we will return to the fact that the government's borrowing will approve only those "like local self-government" and that local self-government will thus lose a good part of its autonomy. Local self-government today has 16% of the fiscal capacity, the country with the remaining 84%, but this does not clearly include the potential of municipal enterprises, whether it is local self-government, whether state, such as one INA, one HEP, one HT, one Croatian insurance, which I know Istrian water supply from Buzet or Pula, Velika Gorica etc. This law, we may even dare say I would also call the Law on the City of Zagreb. The budget of the City of Zagreb is about 7 billion kuna. Today, local self-government could borrow up to 20% of its fiscal capacity and utility companies were excluded. But bypassing the rules through various Holdings now gives me the impression that they will pay all units of local self-government and it is certainly not good, it is certainly neither fair nor fair. For example. In 2007, Zagreb Holding increased its long-term liabilities by 130%. Clearly, it is a violation of the law, but why should everyone today pay for it, not just those who give up such an act. Holding started in 2007 with a billion 976 million kuna long-term liabilities, watch out, and by the end of 2007, they had already grown to 4 billion 547 million kuna. In this, only bonds amount to 2.2 billion kuna. Thirdly, so these models of public private partnership that are increasingly common, I would dare say that everything is just not clean bills as much as someone doesn't want to hear it. If I wasn't to say that this is now turning into a subversive, I would almost dare say behavior. However, the essence of this law is in the following. The minister will have such discretionary powers, that it is right to ask himself whether our Minister Shuker will also abuse those powers. Whether to allow borrowing only to local self-government from HDZ, means their cities, municipalities, or whether they will allow others like those units, and let us not forget that this year we are entering a de facto election year when it comes to local elections. I also think that by now when it comes to debt, such a single possibility has not yet been exploited or won any Istrian city. It means he's taking one loan. I dare say, 560 we have a cca unit of local self-government in Croatia and I dare say that these individuals should not be hostages, let's say the Ministry of Finance, either the City of Zagreb. That it was, for example. This law in force, 560 units of local self-government could jointly be charged with 498 million kuna. By forming, let's say, the company's debt to Zagreb is 3.6 billion kuna. This means 7 times what 560 units of local self-government will be in charge of next 2009. Why? Well, because this law needs to be followed in parallel with the budget law. In this law, 560 units of local self-government can be owed not up to 20% as this Budget Law speaks, but only 2.3% means this gross social product as the Law on the implementation of this budget speaks. That 2.3% for 2008 is 498 million, from the budget and not from the gross social product, that is 498 million kuna and for 2009 it will be 570 million kuna. What's the point, this 2.3% limit needs to be changed urgently and must be significantly higher. I ask myself a word about what it means in this legislative proposal and this famous article of 89 that speaks about public private partnership with it if the cities, the counties don't know Varazdinska how someone says they went bankrupt, I suppose that shouldn't punish the entire Republic of Croatia, especially what this famous article on page 90 of page 36. It is literally said here that the legal person in the majority direct or indirect ownership of units of local and regional self-government, that is the county and institution of which is the founder of units of local and regional self-government can only be in charge of investment with the consent of the majority owner or founder, meaning city, municipality or county. The second subparagraph of paragraph 1 of this Article shall be replaced by the following: Now I'm asking myself if, for example, an Istrian water line from Buzet, it doesn't matter whether it's from Rijeka or Zagreb or another city. So, the owners of these pipelines are cities and municipalities. Whether they can freely be in charge of business banks as was the case always until this year or until the entry into force of this law. It appears that they will need to be asked if this Article 90(2) is literally applied. I repeat, the majority owner or founder shall be obliged before giving consent referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article to result in the consent of the Minister of Finance. If that's the case, then we're all in local self-government in one big mess. If that's the case with Croatia I'd say they're far deeper than I don't know why our gross social product doesn't grow at a rate of 5.5% last year than it was 4 or 4.5%. It is far more serious than whether inflation will be 6% or 7%. It seems that if this is literally possible in this way to interpret that it burns our nails and that Croatia may for the first time, and this law says that we are in huge problems when it comes to carrying out our credit obligations. I'd love to be wrong, but I'm afraid I'm not far from the truth. On the other hand, it was never during old Austria, either during the Kingdom of Yugoslavia or the SFRY, nor for any minister to Minister Shuker, that for example one Istrian, Rijeka, pulsed, Ossetian plumbing had to seek the consent of the minister to be in charge and could, for example, go into such an investment. That's never happened, and now it seems exactly what I'm talking about is coming. And that's why I think other people aren't just gonna start talking about autonomy. Clearly, it is not any separatism, but that everyone manages his own way. What's the point of this law? Croatia is in charge of the country, we today have nearly 35 billion euros in external debt, which is over $50 billion. By the end of the term of office, the foreign debt will certainly rise to nearly 50 billion euros or 75 billion dollars. The question arises who will return it, we clearly know who will return it. The people will bring it all back, but will the people do it? As far as the other side of this law is concerned, I want to refer to these penalties again. They are draconian but in Croatia it just seems to be becoming normal and finally in such laws I see what Mr. Cardinal Bozanić calls a subjective mentality. I don't know, the European Union is asking for Croatia's deficit to be reduced to 3%. We say that we will be far better, so we will reduce it below what there is at this point in Italy, France, etc., the responsibility of the general state is not so much and so much but we will clearly reduce it etc. Finally, according to my court, this law is dangerous, it is harmful, it may be unnecessary, although it may change the court if someone from the Ministry of Justice would explain to me what it means or what, exactly what this article 90 is talking about whether a water pipeline from Buzet, Rijeka, Osijek and so on. the power, without the consent of the Minister of Finance, to borrow and thus to move into certain investments. If that is not possible then the Priory should be against this law and this law should be rejected.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13214	Thank you. A few corrections of incorrect allegations. Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13215	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I guess my colleague, not understanding what this is about, said that the European Union is asking us to make the state deficit 3%. This is not what the European Union is asking for, it is one of the preconditions for joining the euro area, but another thing is that we really want to reduce the deficit because at the time the deficit was six and a few percent that we witnessed in the takeover of power in 2003, at the end of the takeover of power, we knew that these debts had actually burdened both the Croatian economy and local self-government, and it was simply not good for the future. As for the government's debt, it reduces its share. Those who increase it are citizens, banks and firms who are in debt to be able to act economically. So the state is even reducing its share. So you're speaking incorrectly. You need to distinguish the structure of the debt.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13216	Second correction, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13217	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Cain. So I just want to make this right so this law doesn't make us into a big mess, but we'll be in big and deep trouble. But the gable is a small, smaller, smaller thing than these big and deep problems. [[I said it means we'll be in a big mess.]] This is about the further centralisation of Croatia, where it is simple for both the prime minister and the finance minister to be the one to determine who can be and how to be in charge. It is only a question of who approves of them, given that I do not believe that the foreign debt of the state has been reduced in a narrow sense but has on the contrary increased.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13218	Mr. Representative Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13219	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, fellow State Secretary, Honorable Parliamentary MPs and MPs, ladies and gentlemen. Here is the draft budget law, and as already said in the introduction, this Budget Law came into force in 2003. Certainly, over the course of the time of further development of society development, the sustainable system of governance of these public finances also requires an institutional framework which, in addition to ensuring fiscal discipline itself, will also focus on ensuring a strategic allotment of funds and more efficient provision of public services. We can immediately conclude here that the development of a medium-term or multi-annual budgetary framework and approach from, as stated from the bottom to the bottom of this budget planning is basic institutional solutions and tools to strengthen strategic allotment, resources from one side. And the current law makes it impossible for the provisions it prescribes to adopt that budget for one financial year. We know that the state budget is being prepared for one plus two more years, but it is being passed for only one financial year, which certainly affects the situation where the multiannual evaluations of the prepared year are, as a rule, not a starting point of the budget preparation process. The preparation of the budget shall not take into account, to the greatest extent, the projections of revenue and receipts, expenditure and expenditure allocated to programmes under the multiannual framework of the previous year. It has also been concluded that there is a lack of flexibility in managing the budgets of the competent ministries and other state administration bodies both in the part of the planning and implementation of the budget. If we remember the time when we were faced with the great unsettled commitments of the budget users then it is and it is evident that such a system could have worked but today retaining such a system with the same tendency to develop budget planning according to the programmes has also led to the ineffectiveness of the entire system itself. Certainly, the acquisition of the EU candidate country's status continued to prepare for its own membership and the national programme of the Republic of Croatia in 2007 provided for and replaced the amendment and addition of the Budget Law, and in order to more effectively implement the legal property of the European Union in national legislation. Moreover, the need for this adoption is also linked to negotiations with the European Union, in particular Chapter 22 of the regional policy, where the possibility of multiannual planning is sought, the transfer of funds for capital projects from one financial year to another and greater flexibility in the implementation of the budget itself. The government also adopted a strategy to improve and modernise the process in the State Treasury system for the period 2007 to 2011, which provides for measures to modernise budgetary processes including the multiannual budgetary framework and introduce greater flexibility in preparing and implementing the state budget. In 2008, the state also adopted a strategy for reforming the state administration for the period 2008 to 2011, which envisions the introduction of a method of strategic planning and defining the government's strategic priorities. In any event, the applicable law lays down and adopts, the obligation to adopt a large number of implementing rules. And the adoption of those parts of the regulation was not possible because of the vague and mutually uncompliant provisions in the law itself. The relevant law lays down the definition of internal audit, which stipulates that budgetary users are obliged to set up internal audit in both national and local environments and that this is the obligation of the Head of Budgetary and largely both state and local authorities. However, this internal audit is part of a system, internal financial control which is regulated through the Internal Financial Control System Act and this law in a different way approaches the role and purpose of internal audit. Three issues that need to be settled by the proposed law. This is the area of planned budgeting and budgeting for one year and projections for the following two, as well as budgeting at the level of the state and units of local, local self-government and regional. Two, the area of budget management, state and local self-government units and the borrowing and guaranteeing of what has already been the case before, as well as the area of budgetary relations in the sector itself. Here, there is also a particular theme mentioned here is the position of the medium-term budgetary framework, which actually connects the priorities of the Government and the budget within the state level of consumption, and stresses certain concessions between mutually competitive objectives. The medium-term budgetary framework consists of macroeconomic projections of income and expenditure of deficits and debt for the medium term, strategic plans that set government policies, approaches from top to bottom, impact measurement systems that set targets, and a budget that gives a review of government spending plans for next year and represents the first year of the medium-term framework. I would particularly like to point out here that the budget documents explain carefully the estimates of the budget items and the multiannual evaluations related to the multiannual estimates of the previous year. It is seen that the number of capital projects is increasing year by year. Such a multi-annual framework will enable the monitoring of projects over a longer period of time, on the other hand giving one dose of transparency, as it kind of lighting and entering political decisions on budgets. Certainly, the need to position party planning in the medium-term budgetary framework is a very pronounced topic, and precisely to ensure the sustainability of budgetary policies and the planned changes thereof. It is a process that is repeated annually and aimed at reducing inequality between what is available and what the budget itself is looking for. It is clear that the role of the Ministry of Finance is changing over the course of this year in relation to the one which was 1990s and is certain that it will continue from its leading role in eloquence, redistribution of the budget to the incentives of the ministry and the various other authorities of the state administration to decide on this allocation of allocations. It has already been mentioned here that the flexibility of the ministry, which is based on the draft of this law, is such that the adoption of projections is adopted on a second level and the budget on a third level. However, the obligation of the competent authorities to submit half-yearly and annual reports remains on the implementation of the budget at the existing fourth level of the organisation and classification. Of course, the consequences of the adoption of this law are primarily linked to the consistent application of the budgetary principles of legal norms and procedures for how the adoption and implementation of the financial plans themselves are made, and certainly with the reporting of the submission of budgetary supervision, with the measures of responsibility of both leaders and other responsible persons, and the scope of the entities themselves in the proposal for this new law has not been changed. It shall also be determined in its parts by other legal persons outside of the budget users and by the way that financial plans, the management of the funds themselves, the borrowing of guarantees, the making and submission of reports and the implementation of budgetary supervision, which shall be included in the general budget, in the light of the sources of financing. Indeed, this new law also aims at increasing the effectiveness and transparency of the budget in line with the European Union guidelines and subliming this forward is the fact that this new bill introduces an obligation to monitor income and receipts, as well as expenditure on funding sources, to draw up strategic plans for competent ministries at the level of the division of the organisational classification. What I personally consider very important is the creation of a strategy of government programmes for three years and its adoption by the Government. Budgeting for one financial year and projection for the next two by the Croatian Parliament or by the representative body. What is new also, the adoption of a half-yearly report on the implementation of the budget by the Croatian Parliament no later than October 30th of the current year, the adoption of the annual report no later than the current one, until July 15th of the current year. This is certainly what prompts and believes here today's greatest attention, which is to include guarantees and consent that units of local and regional, i.e. regional self-government give to a legal person in the majority of direct or indirect ownership as the scope of possible own debt, and the ex ante consent of the ministry, i.e. the Minister of Finance for units of local and regional self-government who wishes to grant a guarantee, i.e. the consent of a legal person who is in his majority direct or indirect ownership... publication of the adopted half-year report on the implementation of the budget in the “National Journals” etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Certainly, the proposal for this law gave the possibility to transfer dedicated revenues from one fiscal year to another, and that part of the bill I consider also important is a large part of the capital investment is related for a period of more than or longer than one year. I dare say even more than one four-year term, and this is certainly how better it is done, and I can finally say that the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the adoption of this law by emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13220	Thank you. HNS representative club, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13221	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the honourable representatives of the government. In front of us is the bill of law that counterpart Cain called at one point in the Law on the City of Zagreb. I would go one step further that is the bill on preventing the functioning of local self-government and regional and local development due to opportunities in the City of Zagreb and Zagreb Holding. That's what you might call it. It seems simple that it is brought, i.e. it only proposes to end the borrowing of Zagreb Holding. And not just that. There's a hidden intention here that I'm directly warning you about. This law destroys the catching pulling institute in Croatia as a regular law based on banking services. About that later. It is clear that the state must regulate and establish a system that will prevent excessive borrowing and units of local and regional self-government. There are some, some rules of the game must exist and the Budget Act is indeed the right place for these rules to be played and established. Now it's a question of how. It's primarily a political question that we understand each other. The question of setting limits on the assessment of the country's overall economic situation. However, this is an unconstitutional law and it is likely to be brought down by a constitutional suit very easily by whoever will in this section concerning the borrowing of companies in the dominant ownership of units of local regional self-government. Why? Well, I'll remind you. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia Article 3 lays down the integrity of ownership as it is established as one of the highest values of the constitutional order and the basis for interpretation of the Constitution. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia says entrepreneurship and market freedom are the cornerstone of the economic structure of the Republic of Croatia, the state provides all entrepreneurs with the same legal position on the market. The state promotes economic progress and the social well-being of citizens and is concerned about the economic development of all its regions, the rights acquired by investing capital cannot be reduced by law or other legal act. There is a Law on the Protection of Competition, which states in Article 4 paragraph 1 of the Explicite: "This Law applies to legal persons whose founders are members of a share or shares of a state, i.e. a unit of local or regional (regional) self-government.". Trade companies in the Republic of Croatia, regardless of who they own in which proportion and which species are not functioning, are not in anything according to the Budget Law but under the Company Act and according to a whole series of laws establishing the financial operations of companies and tax obligations. This proposal directly endangers business freedom, directly endangers the survival of a whole series of legal entities, i.e. companies owned by local and regional self-government, and I will explain how. First of all, it is actually trying to establish a protectorate, i.e. direct control of what is not budgetary resources between units of local and regional self-government and commercial society. True, part of companies owned by units of local, regional self-government, therefore, municipal enterprises, to speak Croatian, part of their incomes are made through capital transfers from urban and local, municipal and regional budgets. This is true because they perform certain public functions such as maintenance of public green areas, maintenance of local roads, maintenance of cemeteries etc. But these companies were on the market of local self-government units, regional self-governments were forced to place those companies on the market in all those jobs that were once municipal activities and could be directly negotiated and now they no longer have to go to the competition. And who builds roads, who builds water, who builds gas pipelines, why do we act crazy? This law could only be written by someone who doesn't have a day's work in a company. Furthermore, what are the original revenues of utility companies? So it's good to provide services to the citizens? Is the water given for free? The drain is done for free? Gas is distributed for free? What are we talking about? You buy garbage for free? That's the original income. Where are they in this context, why are they not covered by a total awake, or total mass, on which the percentage of the debt will be calculated? We're acting crazy. What about companies that do not carry out municipal activities but are directly on the market. May I remind you that gas distribution is no longer a communal activity long ago. So we have companies that are 49% private property and 51% regional or local self-government. Not only do they no longer have any exclusive right but they have to go to a concession competition. Well, here we are just talking about the concession law. And when the concession is given to them, what do we do? To punish them so they can't even take overnight duty. So do you at the Ministry of Finance know how a utility company works and what a conjuncture is in municipal activities. So do you know what happens in January, February and March every year? Well, it's a time when there's a public procurement system when there's no big work. Which is because of weather opportunities or not opportunities, which is because of other technical and procedural developments. Well, you've made this bill the most normal overnight or weekly debt to cover liquidity for paying salaries to people in utility companies. So where did you get the right of these companies to put you in such an unfavourable position on the market? As far as cash pulling is concerned, a fantastic system in which different actors can participate. Where the day-to-day liquidity for these or those market reasons is bridged, in fact, within a group that has agreed between themselves on the so-called ‘so-called’. overnight or short-term loans and all within the total budget they have. This cancels it out. You practically can't take a lipe from a business bank at a time when you only need that money because you know you have a job coming at you for five or ten days. And on the one hand, we have legally committed all the companies to the moment when they set up a business invoice, when the payment deadline is up, they book all of it in their expenses, and then you tell them you can't borrow five lips to bridge until they charge their services. In that sense, this is a very dangerous law, this is a law that is unfair, it is a law which, for one boot, I will say, is not steaks because the city of Zagreb is a little more than steak, it tries to kill an entire cow and in fact makes local and regional development impossible. This discrepancy between 20% of these laws and 2.3% of the budget law is a top hypocrisy. At this point, the 2.3% limit has already been breached by all those in charge. Calculate the debts of Požeko-Slavon County and the city of Zagreb. At that time, the key in the lock won't be able to give anyone any consent either for the guarantee or for the task of a single June. Why are we doing this? So if 128 units of local and regional self-government are over-indebted by some criteria of the Ministry of Finance, or by the law of established restrictions, why are we punishing these 450? From what will we finance local development, construction of plumbing, construction of gas pipelines? Well, at this point, if the company is already in mixed ownership, the gas distributor, we're not even allowing it to borrow from the bank at this time to finance further connections and the gas highway network. And we said that this is no longer a municipal activity, that this must no longer be financed by the unit of local and regional self-government. So let's make a deal. This is another one in a series of proposals to go to the forced centralisation of Croatia. I'll say it again, let it be heard a hundred times if it's necessary. It is scandalous in this House to pass laws that enter into force 1.7 have a direct effect on the budgets of local and regional self-government as has happened with the amendments and additions to the Income Tax Act. That's not how you do it anywhere. 1.1. is an intermediate point for such things. In the middle of the business year, cities and municipalities are changing budgets. That's illegal. You can't do that. When all the development programs were adopted, all the investment programs, so what are we doing? How do we play with Croatia's fate? It's neither folk behavior nor responsibility. HNS won't support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13222	Thank you. Without banging here, I'd like that. On behalf of the promoter, esteemed Zdravko Maric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13223	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Here, I would like to, i.e. just a brief response to the beginning of the debate, the distinguished representative on behalf of the HNS Club touched among other things and the notion of "cash pulling" in the draft budget law, Article 62, money management. It stands and writes exactly how and how money is managed, hence surplus funds in accounts. I think it's very clear from that article that there are no restrictions, either for the head of the office, or for the minister, of course at the state level. This is everything else we talk about and talk about, so on guarantees, about giving consent and including them in the 20% total limit, I'd say that's still, and here I'd like to stress in any case that this is about long-term commitments, so for long-term debt and long-term commitment, and I need to react there immediately. So, both the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Croatia is certainly familiar with the Company Act and we are familiar with business business, but I also have to say one thing. Therefore, if a company owned by a local and regional self-government unit cannot bear its obligations and it becomes a burden to units of local and regional self-government, it becomes a matter of budget, budget law, budget law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13224	Thank you. We have an announcement. 12th session of the Committee on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament will be held today, on Tuesday 8 July 2008 at 15:00 at the Janko Draskovic Hall 202, 2nd floor. President, the esteemed Zvonimir Mršić. Well, he says there's another one, and then there's another one. The 12th session of the Committee on Economy will be held today, Tuesday 8 July at 14 am at the Eugen Quaternika Hall 233 and that is the president, Dr Dragan Kovacevic. Thank you very much. You've received these notices. We're moving on with the club debate. On behalf of the HSS Club, the esteemed Josip Friscic, vice president of the House. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13225	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs at the Croatian Parliament. Surely this is one of the laws, and this debate will also serve us all to look at one side, I would say, and the inventory of what is happening in the process and the domain of the citizens' resources because we are constantly talking budget, budget, budget. These are citizens' money and we manage the citizens' money through the budget, in which way we deal with it and when certain processes, individual periods or mandates are completed, which is then placed on each other and how justice, which is done by documents, which is financially and politically. And now that we're talking about the budget, then we certainly have to do it first and I want to look into where we are today. The ones we've been dealing with, we're doing a budget, then we know it's been fundamentally liquid for that year. That projection for the next two, as a rule, was the fulfillment of the form because neither was it specifically monitored, nor was it particularly controlled, nor was it any obligation to plan next year to stick to it. Another thing that is certainly important and significant, it was a matter of borrowing because the moment the options in the percentage budget were exhausted and the obtaining consent, it then shifted to the way companies were founded and then it started all over again. Thirdly, what is also important and important to talk about, it is partly said here today, and I believe there will be a lot of debate, it is a matter of getting guarantees. Because as it happened to us as citizens that in one period over a few years financial institutions or bankers lightly approved loans, it was important that the bailiffs, they worked in state-owned companies. Equally, the achievement of credit in companies is one complex process, unless it is a general or state guarantee or a guarantee of regional or local self-government then it goes much faster because it is known that citizens are behind it, that no one will bankrupt the municipality, city or county that needs water, gas or roads, schools or kindergartens and that already someone will find solutions to settle debts. Under these guarantees certainly it is important and important and therefore, I was a seven-year mayor, sitting here mayors, commissioners, beat as soon as possible and as high-quality guarantee as possible, the state was the best. So it would be good and convenient to see and the participation of the state in paying off such commitments, because many of the moment when they brought a guarantee from the Ministry of Finance actually forgot about the obligations, already someone will pay for it, we build schools, kindergartens or something else, and someone will pay for it 'cause surely whoever built it won't. That's what I think of the findings. These are my visions where we are today. And now that this law and in what direction does it establish relations? First of all, I think it is necessary and necessary to bring budget planning into line with our programmes and action plans in a given space and area, because it is impossible to build schools, kindergartens, roads, everything, pipelines, what we are planning, and there it needs to be harmonised, but consciousness in reality and I am going back to what I said at the beginning, in responsibility for multi-annual planning, I think that's good. I think it's a good idea that this level or the level of planning to let go of the fact that we here in the House have to adopt plans on the fourth level, and then when it comes to execution, realisation, then those working on it are telling us that we can't pay the transport bill, even though in the position of not knowing the information we have space, but we can't transfer it from one position to another because such a level of planning and without rebalancing it doesn't work. And that's why it's good to give that opportunity, more operationality, but behind every such expression and look, I look at the greater responsibility of those who are responsible for spending non-accountable funds than the resources of citizens who are one way or another coming into the budget. And then what this law is now laying down now, I don't think it's working out well enough, that's Article 68. I say the setting is good, but it needs to be done clearly, predict where, when, and for what, these are write-offs, delays, and round-the-clock payments. There will be problems very soon because it is envisaged that at the state level both at local and regional level and it is certain that those who are dealing with the collection of income are very well aware if they can't charge once, then let's go to the calculation, but what is it now, and what motives and estimates to give to one person on meals, you are looking for the other one once. This must be an exception to me. Because if it turns into a rule, then we only apply the rule to certain structures, then we'll get into that sphere that we often talk about very quickly, that's who makes it convenient for someone not to find a more complex and less difficult word for it. Article 89 of the Public Private Partnership must have been a year and a half ago and two years ago we actually started talking about it in Croatia. Now it is introduced into legal solutions in the budget with clear volumes as much as for which purposes, but surely in this we also see what deviations are and how someone approaches the knowledge of this task, because these are also duties. If someone made a school or kindergarten, they agreed to pay him off for 25 years through a service, then it's a 25-year-old debt, so we don't run away after 25 years on that contract, who lives, who dies, he owns that facility. And surely it's borrowing now for all those who will come tomorrow. It is certain that this is one new domain, one new area that will need to be followed especially by other regulations because it can and will happen again to us what we have heard these days that in one unit of regional self-government one says at the age of 25 is 800 million, and the leader says neither the kuna has any debt. Well, now someone has to clear it up, whether or not it does. When I talk to the mayors or mayors who have had to sign the proof that 25 years will pay for a service they say, we do not have anything to do but we just have to be well written and know to sign that we are in compliance, because it is certain that no one will close schools or kindergartens and prevent children from using that facility, or the one who built it as a private partner, or there to organize and run a private school or other similar activity. We believe that the proposed law with the solutions that are here today, but also with the clarifications on the issue I have asked, can be a good step towards strengthening responsibility in the management and use of taxpayers' funds, and is also in line with the regulation that we all say, and we must accept what is necessary and necessary and what we do continuously and therefore support the adoption of such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13226	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Honorable representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13227	Dear Vice President, dear ministers, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. This law has a short name, and that's the Budget Act. We at the SDP club think that this law should be added to that point or added to the "i" bond and also to the centralisation of the state, for example, or the Budget and Political Redistribution Act or the Budget and Political Recital Act. Because this law is essentially good all the way to page 35, or chapter "Lowing and Guarantee to a Local and Regional Regional Self-Government Unit". From this article, everything that is well written before is derrogated, but everything that we are good at in this assembly, and it refers to local self-government. This law shows absolute mistrust to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in local self-government. This law says we don't need the mayor's direct election next year. The best thing to do next year is to pick the Assistant Minister of Finance directly. Because everything the mayor, the mayor and the mayor need to do will have to be sent to the finance minister for consent. So what are the citizens going to choose directly? Even if the Labour Relations Act passes in local self-government, where the government will determine and pay in local self-government. We don't need the mayor either. There's enough ficus in the mayor's office. What will the mayor decide, or representative body? Or we're tired of having a representative body and a representative body president and a secretary of the mayor who's gonna send anything he does to the Minister of Finance's consent. And the finance minister probably won't deal with state finances anymore, but he'll be Minister of Regional and Local Finance, because he won't have time for another job, except to do what he says in Article 87, 88, 89, 90. Until today, we had the Budget Law, which every year, along with the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget, abolished articles that either derrogated articles relating to long-term planning. We have never once applied, for example, the planning of working relationships for three years, which so far has been foreseen by the Budget Law. And now, as strategic planning, we praise it as a major advance of this law. Well, we've had it so far, colleagues and colleagues, but we weren't ready to apply it. And OK, that's consistent with European legislation and we can say that. But I am convinced, and I assure you that Articles 86, 87, 878, 89, 90, 91, 92 are not in line with the European acquis. Nowhere in Europe has such a degree of control, control and decision-making in place of units of local self-government as this law provides. Today in the Croatian Parliament, the president of the European Parliament's Committee and its key line is that for the country to progress and develop, there must be different levels of responsibility between state, local and regional authorities. He repeated it three times now at a meeting we held with him. There's no such thing here. There is no minister's responsibility here, but there is absolute control of the minister of what is done in local self-government with finance. If in the past someone has acted and worked against the law, it should end with criminal charges, the court should prosecute him and condemn him, if he did indeed commit crimes. But we can't because of the irresponsible individuals that he has set up a system of control for both the government and the judiciary and the State Audit, we now put the entire local self-government in the yoke as we put it through this law. And so far, units of local self-government, those who had all the characteristics and capabilities could not be charged because there was the first restriction of the Law on the implementation of the state budget on the total amount of possible borrowing of local self-government units, and then the government's political discretion on whom it will and who will not give consent. Today we move on, not only the local self-government unit, but all the companies and institutions owned by the local self-government units, they can't do anything without the consent of the finance minister. So why do we need the Company Act? We need to change the Company Act and say that the Company Act does not apply to companies owned by units of local self-government. Let's change the Law on Institutions, so let's say that this Law on Institutions does not apply to institutions set up by the local self-government unit, because the director of an institution that is the founder of local self-government has nothing to do with the director of an institution which, for example, is the founder of a state or private founder of an institution. The director of a company to which he is the founder of local self-government units has nothing to do with any other director, and in particular not with the director of a state-owned public undertaking, because ultimately the director of a company to which the founder of a local self-government unit has to give his report to the Assembly if the company is limited liability, if the company is also a shareholder. And that report goes to the headship and that report to the city or county parliament. When did we discuss a report on the work of a state-owned company owned by the Republic of Croatia? When was the public discussion? When was that available to the public? But they can be in debt without consent. They can do their duty as all other companies can. Trade companies owned by units of local self-government will now have to ask for all practical questions by the finance minister. And I don't care so much about them, I take care of what the Minister of Finance does to us. He will have to work 36 hours a day to sign or refuse consent to the borrowing units of local self-government. And that's step one. It would be okay, it wouldn't be okay, but okay, let's just say we have to ask for consent there so that some municipal enterprise that has a budget of 2 million wants to borrow to buy a "Rolga", that's that street cleaning machine. It costs about 350, 400 thousand kuna and now you spend the whole process and comes to the Minister of Finance that he simply gives consent. But why should Rolga enter the capacity of borrowing units of local self-government? Why does every loan, every financial lying, every consent enter into the borrowing capacity of local self-government units? Where are we going with this? The city of Vienna has over 100 ownership companies, the management of the city of Vienna's property with 35% is holding the full budget of the city of Vienna and thus ensuring the city's functioning, because in this situation every ten kuna is still going into local budgets, and the first nine are going to the central budget, half of which stays in the City of Zagreb, with five, six municipalities, cities and counties. So how someone thinks about being able to develop these municipalities and these cities and realize a capital project. We are here talking about entering a total debt capacity of 20%, so you know some utility companies or some companies owned by local self-government units have more total revenues than the budget of local self-government units in which they own. So what can this company buy, that would be within 20% and that would be capacity? You will be able to buy some cities and municipalities will be able to buy one truck, i.e. utility companies, a garbage truck, and the next two, three years will be nice at home to sit and drink coffee, because they won't be able to do anything else. The other thing is with those who expect transfers from the state budget. This law creates an absolute dependence of local self-government on the government. And it doesn't matter to you at all, it won't matter if this law stays. How well do you do, how much trust did you get from the citizens, but how are you with the government? This is what we have the situation and recently the government or the corrected power in one county has been removed, because it is said that money from the state budget cannot be obtained for as long as SDP is in the constituent part of that county government. Well, under this law, we don't need choices. Let simply the prime minister or finance minister name a similar person who will implement only and exclusively what the government says, understands the government's consent and over. We don't need local budgets either, let's all go to the state budget and redistribute everything from the state budget. Not according to competitions, but according to political criteria. They're completely mixed pots with this law. I would like to see this table of harmonisation with European legislation, which is precisely what articles of the European acquis or the European Charter of Local Self-Government, for example those articles of 86 have been harmonised further. It would be good to see if these articles are consistent with the law, with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which among other things says that units of local self-government should have sufficient resources to fulfil the functions and duties entrusted to them by law. One option to meet citizens' expectations is to start companies, which by law you can set up and that these companies or these companies then operate on the market, because every company owned by local self-government units, this someone forgets, has no privileged status. It acts completely evenly on the market with all other companies established in Croatia. But obviously they won't be able to do it anymore, because someone is limiting the normal financial flow within that company. And of course, it's all about getting back together, and we're going to link to the government, and it's going to matter what the government tells us, and it's going to be important so what the government is able to approve of us. For SDP, the first part of the law is acceptable. For the SDP absolutely unacceptable, anti-European, anti-democratic, against the second step of decentralisation, the second part of the law. We suggest that he withdraws as such, or it would be best, it's possible to correct, we suggest he goes to another reading, if anything. But it certainly isn't good to bring in an emergency procedure, no matter what P.Z.E. is. we numerous other laws of P.Z.E. We bring in two readings. This law has not passed consultations with the association of cities, the association of municipalities and the community of counties, to which we are bound by the European Charter that we recently ratified in this House. What did we ratify the charter if we didn't apply it? I repeat, a few days ago I was saying the same thing, and we are harmonising the laws when we bring them into line with the law on the European Union, and then we do not implement them. Because the European Charter has been adopted in this House. To comply with the European acquis and become the legal property of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament. Both the government and the Croatian Parliament must act on it. We therefore propose that this law be withdrawn or that, in the section relating to local self-government, it is fully adjusted in accordance with the acquis of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13228	On behalf of the Proposer. Okay, first we have an application for two corrections. Dear Representative Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13229	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I think that Mršić here pointed out that the institution whose founder is essentially whose town they can't do anything other than the ministry, or the finance minister. I mean, that's definitely not true. In fact, the truth is that they can do what they've been doing and so far, actually what allows them to do is the Law on trade societies, but they can't borrow more than they can serve because when they create that problem, then it's not just their problem anymore, then it's a problem that's being decided by someone else and actually forced on someone else. That's how I get it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13230	Thank you very much. The application of the esteemed representative Davor Huška rectification of the allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13231	Thank you, Mr. President. So I would like to correct the incorrect allegations of fellow MPs and Mayor Mršić that in case the mayor and the city cannot decide on credit duties or guarantees, the mayor will sit as a ficus in the office. If it's the only job the mayor has to worry about how to secure credit funds for the city, for the companies he's the founder of, for the institutions he's the founder of the city, then it's really clear. The mayor has much better things to do, much more important work than taking care of credit duties, and if Col. Mršić is going to sit as a ficus after this law in his office, I don't think the other mayors are going to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13232	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Shucker, the Honorable Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13233	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, sitting here listening to Mr. Mr. Lobster's argument, he just doesn't believe it. Article 105 of the Law of 2003 shall be concluded by the Head of Chiefship on the basis of the budget adopted, with the prior opinion of the Minister and Government of the Republic of Croatia. What's a change in the existing law and what's characterized by SDP and HNS as a blow to local self-government, a blow to democracy that I don't know what's not being said here. We want to prevent it, they will not make it public because of the Croatian public. We want to prevent companies with core capital from being set up and owed several dozen million kunas, which later falls as a commitment to the local budget. Look at your debates when it was the Požega case, that's exactly what you were saying. On the one hand, you press charges to the Constitutional Court that the state will compensate for damages in Pozega, and when the state wants to legislate, then you object. So, Mr. Lobster, in the 2003 Budget Law, everything is regulated by what you've been saying. The only thing that has been added is that companies whose cities and municipalities give guarantees enter the quota but not those companies that are solvable, which are good. ... Well, wait a minute. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You haven't asked, but you've reversed what the law determines. Mr. Thinman, I sat politely and listened to you. If you can let me say it, then obviously you're nervous because you missed the debate. But it is illogical to ban the borrowing of companies that are solvable and which can be credited to any business bank without a problem. This is illogical and no one wants to do so but we want to prevent companies with a core capital of 20 thousand kuna from being set up and are therefore in debt with several million or tens of millions of kuna, it is logical that the return of that loan will fall on the burden of units of local self-government. And that's what he wants to stop. Also, I'd like to remind you of something Mr. Mr. Lobster, as you here have so generously spoken, and your previous HNS officers, in 2003, the mayors and mayors wanted to take out a loan and do something. However, the Law on the implementation of the state budget has simply banned the coalition government. Look, you'll see. Well, you can't say that in 2003 the mayors and the mayors didn't want to do anything. For the sake of the Croatian public, I want to say here. Nothing new in this law is except that we want to prevent the establishment of a company with a basic capital and a debt invariably so that it will ultimately fall on the citizens' account. In order to clarify this article, we will propose an amendment to this article that exactly the Law on the implementation of the State Budget will define which companies can and cannot be in charge. So that will be decided by this High Parliament. The other thing is, you can't say that someone makes political decisions or doesn't make decisions. Let's tell me these four and a half years as long as I'm a minister or as much as this government that city has been banned from borrowing. Not one. ... No city has been banned from borrowing. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But look. ... No one will say, and you did not mean that EU funds do not enter the debt limit, that the public private partnership is regulated by a special law. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Tell me now, I'll tell you if I don't have the right to propose, but I'm rhetorically asking you a question about the Varazdin County case. According to budgetary surveillance, borrowing has definitely been done through what is allowed for guidance. And now you have a case of Požega-Slavon County where your rhetoric is quite different. Someone had to deliver but retroactive reports. However, if it were such a provision in the law then it could not have happened. So, no company in the city of Zagreb, the city of Rijeka and the town of Koprivnica, the town of Velika Gorica, the city of Split, any one who normally operates, has normal income, works infrastructure in the area of the city, etc. they will not be banned from borrowing but it is illogical because this company can obtain credit according to all the criteria in the money market. But we're going to prevent the borrowing and the breach of the borrowing of those companies that simply can't do it. Second of all, you mentioned companies owned by the state. You can't chase pears and apples. INA, if it wants to be in charge, doesn't need a state guarantee. Croatian highways can be borrowed on their own and can receive state guarantees to obtain a favourable loan. The state guarantees only Croatian shipbuilding, and that is precisely why it is known. Therefore, I think this Budget Law brings far better and better quality things. But I say clean because of all of us who are here no matter what political options we are from, it's not good to say what we simply say, forgive me for saying, it's not true. Nothing changes here that you passed in law while you were in power in 2003. I was quoting Article 105(2) to you, the only thing adding one sentence is to prevent malfeasance, so I can't be in debt to companies that aren't in a position to do anything, and that's what's only changing and what's only being added. However, you wanted under cover to avoid any control of the borrowing of units of local self-government then they invented here simply because it does not say in this law but you were talking about some fifteen things. I repeat the companies that are Solvency, which can get a loan from a business bank for sure they won't be in this quota. And it's neither anti-European nor what you've already called this law, it's a law that's been on the trail of what this government has been doing for the past four years, which is to introduce order into public finances. We also want the local self-government units on the way. A lot of people have done that before. They should be congratulated on that. Yeah, and they're in charge too. Yes, and they think of their future because you will soon see the Law on Public Private Partnership. That law creates obligations over the next 25 years. And if you don't have good control, if you don't have a good calculation of what that means for a single unit of local self-government in the next 25 years, then we, like the government and the parliamentary representatives, act irresponsiblely. And you know why? Well, because we've given someone the right to assign a single unit of local self-government above what its citizens and its residents will be able to pay for the next 25 years. That's the meaning of this law. That's the meaning of this law. Nothing else. And it's not good, Mr. Lobster, with all due respect and you as mayor and representative to say something out of this pay phone, something that just doesn't stand. It just doesn't stand. All provisions regarding the gradual borrowing of a year, all provisions on annuity-based borrowing are the same as in the law that you passed in 2003. The only thing added was this for companies. Because look, it's illogical, I'm sorry there's no Mr. Beus here, let's say the City of Velika started a company, bought 50 buses, so he'd rent those 50 buses to Zet. And now tell me who would repay the loan to that company? That was the purpose. And that's how we talk to RBD. No one can say that's not true. That's how it was negotiated with the RBD. Is it normal to start such a company and create obligations for citizens with a question they want to come back or not? It's another thing, Mr. Thinman. I was the mayor. Since the SDP-HNS coalition, I have inherited a utility company in bankruptcy. And I know how hard the city is. Therefore, all those who advocate order in the state, who advocate order in public finances, will raise hands for this law. Because that's exactly what this law requires. Don't ask for any restrictions. And be assured and read it a little better. I think many of our fellow mayors, not reading the law, have uncritically started criticizing the law. I say there will be an amendment to the government that will clearly clarify what may be unclear, which is what companies can borrow without entering into the city's borrowing quota and which they do not. And I repeat, for the sake of the Croatian public for four and a half years, we have been doing order in the public finances of the state. This is just help. Helping the mayors and mayors seduce the order of their own. After all, they are part of a consolidated state balance sheet. And they make up about 0.1% of the deficits as you saw in the budget rebalance proposal. Therefore, dear Mr. Mršić, read the old law, read the new one, and you will see that 99.9% of your debate does not stand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13234	Thank you very much. The time of the hearing has expired according to the Rules of Procedure. But that's why we have two applications to correct the allegations. First of all, the Honorable Representative, Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13235	Mr. Minister, I didn't talk about what's not in the law, but you were talking about it. So the law does not say anywhere that companies that have 20 thousand kunas will not be able to borrow the underlying capital but says that all companies and institutions that are, which are...... I listened to you, be kind Minister, I listened to you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So all local self-government units-owned companies and public institutions will be able to rise, compete with the minister's consent, and this enters into the capacity of the local self-government task force. So when one company is in charge, no one else in that city will be able to be in charge. And the difference between guarantees and consent. Credits held by local self-government units shall not be returned by local self-government units unless they have provided guarantees. And if they've given consent, then they return as well as any other company that operates on this market. It is therefore necessary to read the law of the one you propose in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13236	Correct the allegations. Dear Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13237	Thank you very much. Here's what I'd do to correct an incorrect quote. A colleague, Mršić, has already partially corrected it. Mr. Minister said that companies that are solvable. I asked for the word "solvency," in article 90, I couldn't find that word anywhere. Rather, it says that a legal person in the majority, direct or indirect ownership of units of local and regional self-government means that all companies leave under this provision up to 20% of the debt. So it's incorrect that Mr. Ministers in this law says that they are, it's an incorrect quote only if you have some information that we don't have but we're discussing under this law that is, which is currently ahead of us. And how illogically this tells us that a commercial company, for example, in Koprivnica, has 200 million kunas of traffic, almost as identical as the budget of the town of Koprivnica. So if he's in charge of some investment, the town of Koprivnica won't be able to accomplish any more of his duties. That is why we think this is unfair and therefore Mršić, and all the other SDP MPs do not support these decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13238	Representatives, ministers, you have the plates, you have the ability to report. It's on behalf of the HSLS Club, HSU's esteemed representative, Ivan Chehok. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13239	Dear Mr. Vice President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues as it usually happens in us and in Parliament and in society, here's the Budget Law has become the Law on Political Account. I think it is the budget itself enough to say that it is very exact and should be mathematically precise norms that need to be determined first and foremost in this legislature and which should then be followed. You know, on the one hand, we keep telling me that Croatia is over-indebted. How much external debt is too high. It's already a bit of a threat to our financial survival. Well, of course, for the economic substance of this country. We keep saying that it is a high debt of the central state, that there are also high debts from other public institutions, institutions of our economy, citizens. We talk about it all the time. We all agree no matter who rules and rules the state? So what political option? Left, right, central. We keep talking about spending more than we make. That our spending party is much bigger than our income. That it is finally necessary to strike a balance between these two sides. That it takes that balance somehow to please finally. But then when we try to introduce more order not only with this law, but also otherwise I'm saying it as the head of one unit of local self-government, then we come across a whole series of internal resistances, external resistances, petty provocations, obstacles, obstacles, issues. If you want both subjective and objective difficulties, the shortcomings we face and I think that the very intensity of the ministry and the government to finally introduce more order in the process of natural adaptation and acceptance of legal gain should come upon our support and I am glad that the SDP club agrees with this article, namely these standards relating to units of local self-government. It is absolutely certain that we should finally establish more financial order, that we need more financial supervision, that we must finally know how much and how much this country's fiscal breath has totaled, regardless of whether it is a central state, ministry, government or local self-government units. We're all actually public bodies or bodies with public authority. So it doesn't matter whether it's going to be in the primary sense to refer to the minister and the state or whether it's going to refer to mayors, mayors or county. I can say from my experience, like all my colleagues, we've done everything we can. In 2003, we were prevented and Mr. Secretary was absolutely right. So we needed the Ministry of Finance's opinion. It was also quite a bit to say political decisions or decisions that smelled at least we could say political closeness. Then the units of local self-government began to wail, pick up leasing, operating leasing, different other ways just to avoid getting the previous guarantee or the ministry's opinion. When we saw that, and with all this, external debt is growing, our borrowing is growing, and we don't have enough administrative capacity or financial capacity, not to mention fiscal ones of local self-government. Here is suddenly the saving formula of a public private partnership that you can imagine today, those who have advocated a public private partnership say there is no debt in a public private partnership. It's a rites rent. It's not a debt. It's not a neck. It's a neck. So, we're not going to give 25 years, we're going to pay the loan but we're going to have to pay the rent for 25 years, but we're going to have to give the same money, or we're even going to have to in the JPP if we didn't get that model right, we're going to have to give more. I accept that. I repeat again, we're in a country that's centralized. Units of local and regional self-government were all over the place, and perhaps the current minister as former mayor appeared at his own time when he was mayor of how to avoid those opinions. I'll tell you that we did the same thing, that the bank gave us credit guarantees in Varazdin just for the headship's conclusion. She didn't even ask us to give a formal guarantee. Yeah, we've been going around, you should say it out loud. Not just us, but others. It wasn't illegal. It was just past the law as it usually happens. Today, we have the urge to at least try to monitor, establish and monitor the debt of all bodies with public authority as part of stronger financial supervision, law enforcement, final determination and fiscal and financial capacity. And I totally agree with that. All bodies with public authority actually create public debt. Whether it will be created by credit arrangements, through night minuses, cash pullings, public private partnerships, Leasings that have also been taken by companies, and as soon as it is a public body, it is a public debt that, if God does not give up, he will not be able to, credit or something else, pay off the burden of citizens because they are actually public. So, I think the intensity itself is good. What is not good, Mr. Minister, is the fact that you prescribe that we can borrow at a local level 20% of the budget revenue achieved. This includes all public companies or companies owned by local self-government units. But at the same time, you don't count that if we accept that logic, then the revenues of these companies should also be made to the local self-government, city and budget unit itself. Therefore, if, for example, the city has a budget, I will say a single table, and the local self-government unit has, that is, a company owned by local self-government units has 50, then these revenues should also be included in the total borrowing ratio, so that 20% would not only be compared to the budget, but 20% would actually be some financial force, or financial capacity as a whole. Because it really happens that certain companies will have maybe the same annual turnover or annual funding at budget level and some unit of local self-government. So, if you're already prescribing that it's 20%, then we're going to at least part of the income maybe exactly what Agent Beus was talking about, maybe just those who are referring to paying for these public purposes, or what they're leading to, draining, gas and all the other charges that citizens pay in the price of municipal service, at least that we can factor that in the total amount to which these 20% are thus determined. It's certainly the first thing that I think we all need to think about together and I don't think it's going to be against this intensity that the government has proposed here. And secondly, what you said, but I think it is necessary, then, to determine, perhaps, today, to give a particular formulation at least approximate it is quite certain that the Minister of Finance should not be a person who will approve each individual guarantee when it comes to companies. If a company is a company like you said is a insolvency, if a company subsidises its obligations, if a company according to certain criteria may need to take some credit or take perhaps the last 6 months of an account. If the company's okay, so if it's solvent, then I think it's enough to guarantee the local self-government unit itself that you don't need to send that guarantee to the local self-government units before you send it to the minister's consent. Mr. Minister, you'll be overcrowded, nor do you need such over-indulgence, nor do you need units of local self-government, it will be as up-to-date as your ministry is, I can confirm that this is a very up-to-date ministry, but it's going to be filled up by that excessive normivity, it doesn't make sense if, in most cases, the company in the majority of its ownership is in order to settle all its obligations back maybe a year and 6 months, if it's still so effective, then I think we can introduce certain criteria by which guarantees will only be given at the level of the local self-government unit. And what I would particularly like to emphasise, because unfortunately I have in front of my eyes, and even in front of all the citizens of the Varazdin County, one threatening financial disaster, the public private partnership, Mr. Minister, should not simply include the annual amounts of what the public partner will have to pay with the basis of the rent or whatever it is called. It is necessary to include the total amount that the public partner in this case will have to pay the city, municipality or county to maintain the total building facilities. Because you today have one threatening disaster in Varazdin County not only because it was in debt there and above the guidelines of 900 million kuna, but because there are contracts for a public private partnership that were made about this way, they are not public and yet no one really knows what it says, I hope that now the new government, the county government, will publish it. It was concluded there that a public partner, a private partner, maintains facilities of only 30% to 40%, and a public partner of 25 and 30 years, respectively, of the other 60%. Which means that the county will not only pay 900 million kuna what the total amount of the financial arrangement for JPP is, but the county will pay by counting the maintenance of the facilities a billion and something and there is a collapse. Therefore, if you prescribe an obligation not to enter a public private partnership above a certain ratio, include not only meals to be paid for the buildings but also total maintenance of the facilities because the unit of local self-government will not be able to repay those wars. That's about to cut short and explain to the citizens as vividly as when you want to build a house, you know that you're in charge of credit for the next 20 years. And you say my house is worth as much as I'm gonna pay the construction company and as much as it's gonna cost me interest. And you don't count on that house for the next 25 or 30 years to cost you and what you keep. Therefore, your total amount that you will have for the facility is not only the amount of the construction company and interest, but the amount actually that you will have to invest in the house. Therefore, there is a great danger and, in my opinion, it should be better arranged. In short, the HSLS and HSU Club together with these two, in these two amendments or these two requests that we put here, which I see that one minister has already accepted but it would be good to formulate it together with this other one that if there is this obligation that, of course, the revenues of certain companies will enter into the calculation ratio this law will accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13240	Thank you very much. Correction of the alleged representative Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13241	So I would correct my colleague, Chehok, that is repeatedly repeating, so the loans raised by a company owned by local self-government units unless a guarantee is given to a local self-government unit and this is no longer given to the burden of citizens, but this company returns that loan from business if it cannot return it then goes into bankruptcy and it is charged out of bankruptcy. Therefore, do not create here a fame that anything that units local, or companies, raises to the burden of citizens. This company owned units of local self-government operate as all other companies and no longer lend loans as they did in Požega County or as they did in some other areas. See if they have insurance charges. After all, companies today are raising classical mortgage loans to an investment they are carrying out. Therefore, loans by the company fall not on the burden of citizens but on the burden of the business that has raised the loan.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13242	On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Shucker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13243	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, so here I will illustrate to you the example of one of our great works why consent has been said. Four consents have been issued for four different societies of the facility, however you wish. Now look, when you only look at the task of this work without these consents, then his duty is 12.6%. And when you look at these consents, then his duty is 26%. But why do we point out consent? Look, it says consent to the public and fire department for the purchase of fire trucks. It is evident that the public fire force will not be able to repay the loan, but will return from the city budget, will return from the city budget. Upgrade the floor at the hospital facility. It is evident that the hospital will not be able to do so and the city when it has given consent means in a certain way it has taken over in the future. You also have two consents in utility companies where it is evident that these utility companies will be able to repay those loans. And that's not a question, and that's what I said about the government amendment explaining this article that regulates, it's not on our mind to limit the borrowing of a municipal company that carries the development of a city and can fully repay its loans. Well, no one, it would have to be completely out of their minds to suggest such a thing. Therefore, we will propose an amendment to this article to clarify that correctly. So, and what you've been saying, Mr. Gric, yes, community society, but you also have an institution like road administrations and some other institutions that when they end up in bankruptcy for their obligations corresponds to the unit of local self-government. So that's something that wants to be regulated by this law. Maybe the interpretation in the law itself wasn't quite the neatest but here, I said here for the first time when I spoke and now I've told you what the urgency was. On the example of a big city, I said there's a lot of things to hide behind consent. It's precisely on the trail of what Mr. Chehok was saying that he once resorted to legal exhibition to do what was not, in principle, but was different and eventually came down to the same thing. And that is the meaning of this provision of this law, and if we had discussed it in such a way, perhaps we would have come to a common conclusion today that this article should look like. Not just because of a little change, we attacked the law as if it had changed in that law, I don't know what, and the law hasn't changed anything, Mr. Gristle. The only thing that changes is these companies and institutions where local self-government units create obligations that may not be able to return tomorrow. It's another thing. Look, it doesn't matter when you give a guarantee, the company might be doing well today, tomorrow because of the bad political decisions it can stand, but it's not defined here, and frankly speaking, I was saddened to see some fellow mayors step up. I thought this provision was in their favor. They will allow certain pressures that force them to do some things that will cause the city to function tomorrow, not to. Or he wants to put himself in a position that cities and municipalities can be debted without any control. Tomorrow, when the power of the city councils is much smaller, or let's say again, look at Mr. Grić's discussion of the SDP club as regards Požega-Slavon County. She's diametrically opposed to what you were saying here today. In fact, the SDP club demands that the government of the Republic of Croatia make all the taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia miss one unit of local self-government at the docks. It's looking for the SDP club, if you're on track, then you should be the first to support this law, that's your interpretation here, so you're supporting your fellow mayor who's asking the state to compensate him for some imaginary 300 million kuna. Are we gonna have X cases like this tomorrow? This is just a law that limits no one. We want to have a clear situation as far as the Croatian state is concerned, as we know how many Croatian companies are in charge, how many Croatian banks are in charge, how many Croatian citizens are in charge, how much the Croatian state is in charge, we want the citizens of Croatia publicly and transparently to have in one place an indication of how many units of local self-government are in charge. Nothing else. So, the provision of the article, I agree in this part that maybe some things are clumsyly defined, but we will, by amendment, make it clear that this does not apply to all businesses but only to institutions and those companies that are founded with 20,000 core capital, and not to those companies that are doing very well, and that is the only change regarding the borrowing of local self-government units. But when we talk about a political racket. You know what? When someone in the 2003 parliamentary elections gives you a ban on borrowing, and then the opposition political party at the state level of HDZ holds almost 70% of local self-government units, then there was no talk of a political racket. Then I was mayor, I had a 35 million project, and I was about to kneel before Minister Church to allow me to be in debt, so he wouldn't allow it to rebalance the budget in the 10th month, and then it was clear how you could get credit and finance the project in the last two months when the construction season was practically on this. Then it wasn't anti-European, then it wasn't an attack on local self-government units, then it wasn't an inability for local leaders to prepare for parliamentary elections, but look. If people in local self-government work, that's your best indicator. At that time 70% of HDZ were mayors, mayors, mayors, and we, despite the ban on borrowing, won these elections, so don't hide, want to achieve something else, don't hide behind it. I repeat, this definitely introduces order into and finance units of local self-government, we will correct, we will make it clearer by amendment to formulate the provision of this article regarding corporate borrowing, and nothing has changed in that article that was not, and that is what was so earnestly supported and when your party proposed it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13244	Stand side by side and settle it, and the correction of the quote, representative Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13245	So, I'd beg, I'm correcting an incorrect quote, talking about consent again, and then saying "guarantee." This law does not speak of guarantees or "j", it speaks of consents that now no longer have to be given only by the representative body of the local self-government units, but must be given by the minister himself. ... I've been listening, but Minister, the problem is that you ministers don't need to hear me say what I'm saying, and you're saying what I said. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, I'm very clear about companies that are longer loans because banks give them credit because they have their own business and their own assets. I wasn't talking about institutions. ... Well, then tell me we're not discussing the law, we're discussing the amendment. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Not on your past, but, Vice President, give me a minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13246	Okay, so you fixed the quote, I see, but you didn't make any arrangements, so I suggest we move on with the club debate. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13247	Here, now Chehok will get bail. ... Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't know what to say here anymore. Namely, after this, I would say three-part discussions between Mr. Minister, colleagues Mršić and the Czechos don't really know where we are because the amendments were promised, and I was really tantamount to this, not just like Mršić, I'm talking about that there are, given articles 86 to 92 that there really are restrictions on local self-government, I'm not going to speak intentionally regionally because there is no such thing as local self-government in the possibility of availability, investment, etc. I understand Mr. Minister's intention, given that he is the Minister of Finance and that the external debt of the Republic of Croatia, if we count the internal amount of more than 40 billion euros, is to introduce one financial discipline, although I think it would be much better to introduce financial discipline within the state of Croatia in order for this financial discipline to come in those 60 days in order to be somewhat rather towards Europe and other countries. As much as we can assure ourselves of our well-meaning, as much as I believe in the well-meaning of Mr. Minister and any amendment that will be delivered to us on the benches, yet with the official of local self-government, there is a feeling of saying one restriction in action. Furthermore, in addition to that restriction, there is also doubt that I should say distribution or granting consent, they would say that, even though I say Mr. Minister assures us and acts very sincerely in that so far, that until now who has been denied consent in this country, it is clear that such assurance should be put on paper in the amendment so that it can indeed be sure of his good intentions that I believe he has and that he brings them to us here today. If we were to transfer these articles of the law to reality, then, for example, We could never, for example, in the Caglin municipality carry out a measure of agricultural land costing 10 million kuna, and the Caglin municipality has a revenue of 2.5 million kuna and no loan and guarantee it can do so. Slavonski Brod, not Osijek but Slavonski Brod, someone mentioned Osijek, thinks to build open and closed pools whose price is about 40 million kuna and thinks to raise credit for the project. Since the total income of the town of Slavonski Brod is around 130 million, 140 million kuna, simply if 20% is the amount that can be obtained, for which consent can be obtained, then simply the town of Slavonski Brod cannot get consent and already has certain credit responsibilities from earlier due to some other projects. Ship-Posavia County as already said here, as an institution has twice as much budget as, pardon boat hospital, county hospital in Slavonski Brod has twice as much budget as the County of Brod-Posavina. Therefore, I think that it would really be the burying of the ministry with all these possible grantings of consent or proposal, on the government's proposal and on the consent of the ministry or the consent of the government, so I don't know how this is defined here, with the consent of the Government, and on the proposal of the Minister of Finance and so on for all commercial companies in the state of Croatia. I really think that would be excessive for the valuable assistants of the finance minister and himself, but this proposal by Mr. Chehok, which speaks of the possibilities when the Solvency Society, so those who are companies for which there are no problems and as Mršić says who can pawn not only, have the property of whether, permanent property, I think that with here I can not tell the arrangements to find a better solution than whether this part of the law for which the HDSSB, therefore of the 35 pages, has no intention of supporting. Up to 35 pages as Mr. Mršić said yes, from 35 pages of no, because it really limits local self-government in the day-to-day development. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13248	Thank you very much. We don't have an update on the quote. This has exhausted the club debate. We continue at 15.00 hours in order Lesar, Denona, Kulušić etc. an individual debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13249	We'll continue the afternoon session and the individual debate. The first is the distinguished representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13250	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. After reading this law, the first grade and thought of this law were an excellent bill, and we finally get something well written from one area. In particular, because of Article 23(3) which obliges the Government of the Republic of Croatia or the Ministry and other state bodies to adopt strategic plans for three-year periods which necessarily contain vision, strategic objectives, way of meeting objectives, results assessment measures and a system of monitoring of results. I think for the first time in one of the laws it is mentioned that some plan must also contain measures or criteria for assessing results. In this regard, European representatives are a little bit warning us that in a large number of our documents, especially strategies, action plans and plans, we do not have criteria to assess or qualify results. And I welcome this provision, and I believe that, say, the Ministry of Finance will soon print a book, because it's a ministry that likes to print books especially on finance and budgets, when one such book will print these strategic plans. And that's good. However, I immediately made one mistake, so in my mind I tried to apply the provisions of this law, from state to local self-government, so I went from top to bottom and came up with a lot of problems. First, I was worried that in the explanation or description of the situation, but also in the introduction, and even when the minister was here, Minister Schuker, no one mentioned that no consultation or consultation with local and regional self-government was carried out on this bill. And they had to, the government had to do it because the European Charter of Local Self-Government obliges even the Croatian Constitution. However, since the part of the Constitution that speaks of the powers of the local and its funding is rarely read, I thought that at least the European Charter was a document to which someone in this executive authority held and that those consultations had been conducted. We heard today they didn't. So how can we pass the Budget Law that regulates and budgets of municipalities, cities and counties without anyone talking to them about it at all? It's pretty unserious. Secondly, I wondered why this law is now and in such content. Namely, any restrictive law that clearly lays down some rules of the game has some kind of instruction, some kind of background experience or why or because of which some state is limiting. I'd say this law is based on Baseb's lesson. This lesson, Bazeba. Baseba means Bandic-Zec-Bagaric. There was the finance minister indirectly and admitted when he referred to cases where excessive responsibilities occurred, and this particular county and that firm and Zagreb Holding cited as certain arguments. So this is Baseba's lesson, and now it's a little clearer for you. But would it not be better for Croatia to pass a special Law on the budget of the City of Zagreb and its Holding, but rather for the sake of Zagreb of a single county, we bring 300 and some units of local self-government that did not violate the existing laws, which did not enter into debt that they could not repay, which did not issue bonds without cover or debt or cashier's records, or the mundane bonds that could not be serviced. The second thing I see very problematic is the article of the 33rd Law, which obliges local budget users to adopt development plans, so the county, municipalities, the city must adopt a development programme plan. When does the county budget have to be over? At the end of the year for next year. When does he have to bring in the supply plan? Before he goes to a public competition. In fact, this law is also linked to the Law on Public Procurement and Anti-Corruption Measures that we have recently adopted. Is it possible for the county to adopt a budget, a plan, a health development plan in the county of X and a public procurement plan in that institution and implement it during the financial year? It's not. That is what this law refers to and obliges. And that's good, I got nothing against it. But the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the competent ministries prevent this law from being respected, preventing the county from respecting the laws. Why? For example, the Regulation on how to calculate the amount of aid for balancing for decentralised functions for 2008. The government brought in May 2nd this year. And as the county could, hospital X in the county of X adopt a plan of development programmes, a public procurement plan, call for a tender and have the funds secured in the county budget, a item of decentralised function for health, when a decision on minimum financial standards for health was made on 2 May this year. And without a government regulation and these decisions of plan size in the budget are a matter of telephone directory, divination, whispering, forecasts, and not of exact amounts. Because after the regulation and decision, the exact amounts are only known. So if the Ministry of Finance will tolerate behavior like these ministries have done before, and the government is late with the regulation, they will not be able to implement local self-government in this law. He'll be in violation of the law, not his own guilt. Furthermore, Article 40, gentlemen, in Article 40, you have the word "headship president" in this article. The law enters into force on 1.1 next year. The elections are held in May and there is no more headship or headship president after that. In Article 64, you have the word "headship" and you use the term "head" and "head" several times. Since this law will apply only for 4 and a half months and the Executive Authority will enter into force 1.1, the term of the executive authority in local self-government. Today it's head office, tomorrow it'll be mayor, mayor or mayor of the municipality. Article 68 speaks of the Government's decision to write down under a partial or complete write-off of the claim made by the Government on the basis of a proposal from the Minister of Finance. I wonder if you may not think of a good, necessary, useful for the purpose of preventing the abuse of this, that there is a government's obligation here to make any decision in which someone is forgiven by claims in whole or in part, must be informed by the Parliament or at least by the Committee on Finance and Budget, at least because it is about the positions of the claim that have been made in the budget as well. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area. 90, regardless of whether it was consent or guarantees of local self-government towards companies or institutions that go into debt, it is not normal, it is not fair, it is not correct to take 20% of the local self-government budget, and not the funds, i.e. the revenues of these companies and institutions that they make. And if the Minister announced the government's amendment to an explanation to which Article 90 would apply, it is not too late to come with an amendment that speaks to 20% of the revenues in which the budget of local and regional self-government is accounted, but also a financial plan of the institution, i.e. the undertakings for which the guarantee is granted or to which the debt is agreed. Then it would be approximately fair, because the total funds guarantee that a return will be secured, not only the County of the County Roads Administration, because the county administration has its revenues, not just the county budget for the hospital, because the hospital also has its revenues. Therefore, try and fix it, because indeed for the next two, three years no one will be able to benefit, no guarantees, no consent, because in advance the large debtors have spent a prescribed quota where duties can be issued to local self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13251	Thank you. Dear Representative Ante Kulušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13252	Mr. Vice President, State Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The Budget Law regulates one of the most important areas of public finances. Organized public finances and the budget system are an important element of the country's economic stability. The characteristics of the regulated system are, among other things, simplicity and clarity In the draft Budget Law, firstly defined and defined budgetary principles. In short, these principles lay the basis for further development throughout the law. That is exactly what makes this law simple and applicable, although it regulates any simple subject. That's how it is, for example. directly through the principles established that state money is used to finance expenditure, functions and programmes in accordance with the budget and that the Heads of Authorities are responsible for this. It is also defined that the draft laws, regulations and other rules must contain an assessment of the fiscal impact in order to know how much this costs before they are adopted and whether we can afford it as a state. It is extremely important for us in the Assembly to introduce programming plans. Under this proposal, the government will have to adopt a three-year programme strategy. This strategy will formally define what we have seen from the government's work so far, and these are the main strategic areas of government action with the objectives set, the ways in which they are met and the measures to be followed, whether the programmes have achieved their objectives or not, and how successfully the objectives have been achieved. This new Budget Law also sets before us in the Assembly challenges in terms of change in the way we think and look at the budget. We should be interested not only in the inputs, but in the results. A three-year view and orientation of the programmes and the success of their implementation, proposals and new law and will allow us to do so. There are many more elements of sound financial management, which are set up by this law, and I will highlight another possibility, an important option that is given especially for capital projects. It's something that's been bothering everyone in practice. In cases where the project is planned in one year and not in the next year, and due to objective circumstances, it is not possible to implement it in the year in which it is planned, a new budget should be put in place for its implementation next year. The new law allows for the transfer of the project in the following year and this is not only important for the European Union projects, but also for our projects. I still have to look back at the inscriptions and speak on the subject of borrowing units of local and regional regional self-government. Local units are part of the general state system. The system is being monitored as a whole, and the stability of local units is an important element of the stability of the entire state. This restriction introduces what should be sought by local units, borrowing to the level of their ability to repay these debts. Finally, I would like to point out that it is important for all of us from this law, which is the basis of public finances, to see that it lays down rules governing the system on the principle of good governance. Just because this bill makes it, I support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13253	Thank you. Dear Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13254	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. And I will repeat as part of my colleagues that the Croatian Parliament has fully ratified the European Charter of Local Self-Government and so accepted some European standards and obligations regarding relations with the units of local and regional, regional self-government, when it comes to legislation and I really don't understand why we have this law in such an emergency procedure, without two readings and without even consulting cities, associations of cities, county and county associations, which directly violates the European Charter of Local Self-Government. I don't think complete information claims that such changes will lead to a drastic restriction on the borrowing of cities, because for example, Rijeka and Zagreb, in all responsibilities that will cover the new law, do not cross 20% last year, does not inform the objective public, since the legal limit that says that the new borrowing of all local units in the year must not exceed 2.3% of their total income. Let me remind you, that provision limits the new borrowing of 560 units of local self-government to 498 million kuna. And the new proposal to enter into this limit is also agreeing with companies, not just guarantees, to fully stop the potential of borrowing for new development projects. In fact, the development of local self-government units is halted. Of course, this is the problem, because they are being opened up to the possibility that this creates a new possibility of political corruption and favouring units in which HDZ wants to achieve some kind of benefit to itself. Budget 2008 e.g. has shown what decentralisation means. Let us remember the hall in Zadar, which is built by means of a budget item for coastal development, e.g. in Rijeka, at the same time as the swimming pool complex where 400 metres of new shores are literally built, no funds from that item could be used. Now and in this new way, we will have a new form of centralisation, and in doing so we will violate the European Charter of Regional Self-Government, because you will remember right there the observation of the inability to develop regional local self-government. And today, Mr. Secretary said that no one will prohibit borrowing. But he doesn't even have to ban it. It is sufficient to make it difficult to give consent because Article 90 does not set a deadline within which the ministry must decide on a request for consent. We waited in Rijeka for a year and a half. Which means a year and a half to realize a project like the Rijeka swimming pool complex, I don't think I should explain it to you specifically. We can therefore see that the government continues with the process of centralising the state and limiting the development of local units and this certainly does not constitute a harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the acquiss of the European Union, which is why we have this law in an emergency procedure. In addition, I point out once again that the main criticisms of the European Commission were the lack of local and regional self-government and poor decentralisation. That's not what the SDP says, the European Commission says. Therefore, I can point out once again that this law, as well as the laws that we have recently adopted on the financing of units of local and regional self-government, is once again not sufficient to take account of the status of large cities and cities of county headquarters where access would surely have to be different than offered in these solutions. We therefore believe that the adoption of the law in the text proposed has the effect of preventing the further borrowing of units of local self-government and legal persons in a way that prevents the development of units of local self-government. Therefore, we do not consider that the proposal should definitely accept the proposed amendments to the provisions on the inclusion of the general mandates of the units of local self-government, the provision on the obligation to comply with the previous consent of the Minister of Finance to grant guarantees and consent and should be deleted and more scope should be proposed for the large cities and cities of the headquarters of the counties for the task and for the public private partnership. This is the only way we will allow the smooth development of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13255	Thank you. We have one correction, Honorable Representative Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13256	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will correct the false allegations of a respected representative who said that through this law the development of cities and municipalities is halted. That's incorrect. The development of cities, municipalities, units of regional regional and local self-government is not exclusively carried out through the lending and giving of guarantees or consent but through the overall measures of state, regional, county and urban policies, through urban and ine budgets, and this finding certainly does not stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13257	Thank you. Let's move on with the individual debate, distinguished representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13258	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Before us is the draft budget law in line with European Union legislation. In a 2007 report on the progress of the Republic of Croatia, the European Commission noted in part of the economic criteria that the Republic of Croatia needs to improve the current weak link between strategic and budgetary planning that this law is seeking. I would stick to my debate in that part of the law which defines the obligation to include guarantees and consent which units of local self-government and the area of course give to a legal person in the majority of direct or indirect ownership and the establishment of which is the founder of the obligations of the legal person and institution in the scope of possible borrowing. These units of local and regional self-government which are obliged to result in the prior consent of the Ministry of Finance which wishes to give the local self-government unit a guarantee or consent to a legal person in their majority direct or indirect ownership and the establishment of which is the founder. Local and regional self-government units were obliged to report such guarantees to the Ministry of Finance before the legislative amendments were proposed, but apparently they did not do so, so today we have more than a hundred units of local and regional self-government that are in charge through the law of the prescribed possibilities. It was therefore necessary to prescribe these legal amendments to stricter terms of borrowing. It is now evident that cities, districts and municipalities through the borrowing of institutions and companies to which founders have tasked their residents for decades to come. In the short term, this gave positive results to them, especially on the political scene. The leaders of these units from Rijeka via Zagreb to Varazdin County showed their residents fast-tracked development, the growth of standards in these areas just by drawing funds for this accelerated development from almost illegal sources of funding, from borrowing, for example, to municipal enterprises with units of local and regional self-government. It is the leaders of the hundreds of cities, municipalities, counties that protest most against the new Budget Law proposal. In the long run, however, I believe that the units of local and regional self-government that have brought their budgets into line and the budget of their institutions and companies that are founders with real and real opportunities and applicable legal regulations have been better. In the final amendments to the Budget Law, it is actually impossible for insolvent public undertakings or utility companies to raise loans with guarantees from cities, municipalities and counties. In particular, it can be assessed that the restrictions on the borrowing of units of local and regional self-government do not apply to the funds pooling units of local and regional self-government and provide with and with funds from pre-accession funds, as well as the golden rule mentioned by the Secretary of State that borrowing is allowed to finance investments and does not mean any debt or increase of public consumption of units of local and regional self-government. It should be pointed out that, with a limitation in borrowing that is imminent due to the above-mentioned practice of the local and regional self-government units to provide guarantees to companies and institutions, it was announced by the legislator before the Government of the Republic of Croatia during the preparation of the sublaws necessary for the implementation of this law to develop additional criteria and we heard from the Minister and the amendment of the Government that will make sure that the companies that do well can be committed to the prescribed legal obligations. These additional criteria remove the assumed risk of further centralisation of local finance management and limit the development of local self-government units. Finally, it should be said that this law, as well as a whole series of other dates of entry into force of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on local and regional self-government, will mean amendments that will take place in units of local and regional self-government following direct elections for mayors, mayors, mayors and mayors, as well as the abolition of municipal, city and county heads. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13259	Thank you. We have a few replicas. First is Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13260	In your presentation, you said that a whole series of legal entities, you mentioned the explicit institutions and public companies, or units of local and regional self-government, there was illegal borrowing. First of all, illegal borrowing has several elements. It's one that banks themselves have to take care of. So they can't break the law. And the other is if there are such cases, I remind you that by law you must report any such case to the State Attorney's Office or the State's Attorney's Office and, in any case, it is mandatory to file a criminal report. I would like to remind you that one single eclectic example in this regard is the mayor of the Požega-Slavon County of the Croatian Democratic Community, Mr Bagaric. And I will now correct you or give you a chance to comment. As far as the Varazdin County is concerned, I will only remind you that at the Varazdin County Assembly where your councilors with the HSS and HSLS have overthrown the mayor and the chieftainment proposal was to call USKOK and the State Attorney's Office and you, your council members voted against that conclusion because you refused to establish the legality of the Varazdin County case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13261	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13262	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, I'm talking about the fact that 120 units of local and regional self-government are in charge of more than the law is allowed. In charge of more than the law is allowed. So all those units of local self-government knowingly or not, they broke the law. The second fact is that the former mayor, Mr. Cacic, has zero kuna debts, and about a billion kuna commitments per public-private partnership. We heard what this would lead to in the perspective of is the Varazdin County and would not be happy in the skin or cities and municipalities that had to enter with the mayor and the county authorities in these public private partnership contracts. When you mention the launch of some disputes against Mr. Bagaric, former mayor of Požega-Slavon County, I can say that just the messengers in the Assembly of the County Požega County have raised their hands to launch all judicial activities towards the former mayor. It's all done. The mayor was here after that and here in the Parliament. They're not any legal conjectures pulled towards him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13263	Thank you. Dear Representative Beus, you've lifted the plate. There's nothing in the Rules of Procedure anymore. The next replica is Commissioner Biljana Borzana. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13264	Thank you, Mr. President. I've got a replica of the presentation of my fellow MPs. If I understood you correctly, you said that, that local units have owed generations for decades, right? So I'll remind you, don't think I'm justifying any debt beyond measure, but the state is, the debt of the state is 84 billion kuna, and the unit of local self-government is 1.6 billion. So I wonder who owed generations or decades in advance.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13265	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13266	... I will try to answer to an esteemed colleague that we know well how many foreign reserves and even our country's reserves are, and we know how many reserves such as the Varazdin County, the city of Zagreb, or some other units that were ruthlessly in debt and certainly applied from a public-private partnership to citizens of 15, 20 and 25 years who will be returned. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] [[Intruder: Microphone!]] The question is who will be mayor, who will be in power? Citizens pay back the debts that were created.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13267	Thank you. And we have a replica of Honorable Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13268	Thank you very much. In his presentation, counterpart Huška first tried to justify the adoption of this law by capitulating the system. If 120 and several cities are in debt against the law or have bigger, bigger debts than existing laws should be, then I don't think it can sell the adoption of a new law by not applying the past laws and asking the question why no one has responded in these cases. And another thing. You said that today the minister announced that, generously, certain companies that are solvable, which are doing well, will still be in charge. I think it's this little weird approach, and I think the whole story today is about this law and it's up to me to say that it's not supposed to go into this part of what's going on with the debts of local units because, I've already cited one example, let's say in Koprivnica, the municipal company has 200 million kuna incomes as well as the city budget and it's illogical that the investments they're doing and that they can finance and that the city doesn't give a guarantee and they'll never pay those wars if it's a municipal enterprise that gets into trouble, that it's going to get into that, that whole sum. And I don't think the minister should be considering it and giving some opportunity to be in charge, but it should simply be removed from the law. Here's my suggestion.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13269	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13270	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In this second part, I fully agree with you, and I, in that sense, have understood Mr. Minister. It means that the amendment will be given the legal option, the amendment that enters into the law, the duties of healthy, liquid companies that are the founders of the local, regional self-government unit without additional consent in the Ministry of Finance. And the very reason behind this law also includes the creation of additional criteria that will be prescribed by sublegal acts where the possibility of borrowing will be given to those who truly meet certain conditions and have real need for borrowing. I would like to point out again that projects that are related to pre-accession funds are excluded here, which are extremely important to us in cities, municipalities and counties. This does not enter our debt quota and I reiterate the golden rule of debt for investments, non-financing of public spending and public spending debts. The collapse of the system has been prevented in time and I believe that these 120 units of local and regional self-government until they come out of this bonus that is now under the existing criteria will certainly not get the possibility of borrowing, the consent of the ministry. And this will enable us to healthy local self-government units who have not broken the law in this way to enter into some new projects and new responsibilities all in accordance with the law that is before us today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13271	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate, distinguished representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13272	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The current system of budget and budgetary relations in the public sector has been established by the 2003 Budget Act, and this legal framework has enabled the achievement of many initial objectives set in the area of the state budget, and in particular with regard to the establishment of fiscal discipline. Because the establishment of fiscal discipline was one of the most important tasks in that period. As changes in the circumstances of constants, existing laws in the meantime have become a certain brake in budgetary planning where the development of the multiannual budgetary framework and approach from the top to the bottom have become the basic institutional solutions and tools to strengthen the strategic resource-location. At the same time, the existing law has also become a certain brake in budgetary planning and because today, as the fundamental objectives of fiscal policy, they impose on strengthening and maintaining fiscal discipline. The lack of the existing Budget Law is also a fact that it does not clearly determine the intended incomes and receipts, the competence to collect and monitor as well as the issue of transfers achieved, and the neutral assigned revenue and receipts from one fiscal year to the other. Therefore, in order to make the implementation of the acquis of the European Union more effective, the Republic of Croatia has provided for the amendment and addition of the Budget Law to the National Programme for Accession of the European Union. The new Budget Act brings with it many benefits, and it sets out in particular the types of income and receipts, the competences for their collection and monitoring as well as the ways and opportunities for their spending. And that consolidated revenues and receipts in one account ultimately allow for a more rational management of budgets and commitments. This new Budget Law also seeks to establish a medium-term budgetary framework. The positive side of this Budget Law proposal is that the law is aimed at increasing the efficiency and transparency of the budget in line with European Union guidelines, and excludes standardisation of terminology and provides for improvements in the information and information system, budget and budget users in planning and implementing and reporting and accounting. In today's debate, we have heard a number of negative assessments of this Budget Law, which have been made with a certain dose and dissatisfaction, and even bitterness, calling it inappropriately this law, a law on some kind of political racket, or declaring even this law unconstitutional. Given that, in the assessment of the acceptability and value of this law, it is necessary to avoid a subjective approach, of course, that I will support the draft of this budget law without fear of being unconstitutional, as it seems to me both pretentious and apprehensive to the status of the constitution of this law, and that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia did not have a chance to declare the constitutionality of this law at all. I will therefore vote in favour of the draft budget law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13273	Thank you. Not even the border, she even finished the debate when you called. I'll tolerate you this time, next time I won't. Here you go, replica Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13274	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Constitution or the unconstitutional nature of the law determines only and exclusively the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. Be assured that the Constitutional Court will very soon have the opportunity to decide on this, as the Club of HNS Representatives will submit a request for an assessment of constitutionality. To talk about a public private partnership in this way, to actually criminalise something that has already been passed a whole series of regulations and in cases where the whole business has been run by the State Bridges Institute is simply inappropriate and I cannot understand that no one from the Ministry of Finance finds fit to get up and say: “People, the Public Private Partnership Act may already be on the agenda tomorrow. How can you talk about it as some kind of criminal category." So you're actually making people think of something that is an integral part of the legal system of the Republic of Croatia as a criminal act. As long as it leads! This is a legislative body. We can't vote on ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13275	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the distinguished representative Gordan Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13276	Thank you very much. It is understandable that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia only determines the constitutional court, and I am more surprised by the finding that my colleague Beus dares to say that the law is unconstitutional, and that the Constitutional Court's decision that says he will surely declare it unconstitutional. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13277	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Dear representative of Vesna Buterin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13278	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, state secretary with associates, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. The current Budget Law, whose primary objective was to establish fiscal discipline, came into force on 1 July 2003. The need for the adoption of a new Budget Law is significantly linked to negotiations with the European Union where the negotiations under Chapter 22 are held. – Regional policy and coordination of structural instruments requires the possibility of multi-annual planning, transfer of funds for capital projects from one financial year to another, greater flexibility in budget implementation, etc. It is important to stress that the new Budget Law makes it clearer to determine the types of income and receipts of competences for their monitoring and collection, and the way and the possibility of their spending. This law aims to increase the efficiency and transparency of the budget in line with European Union guidelines. The draft law concerns three main areas, the area of planning, drawing up and budgeting for one year and projections for the next two years, and the implementation of the budget at the level of the state and units of local and regional self-government. Next, to the area of budgetary management, state and local and regional units, i.e. regional self-government and public debt, as well as the borrowing and granting of guarantees. The provisions of the Budget Law also seek to establish a medium-term budgetary framework linking the priorities of the Government and the budget in the context of the level of consumption, stresses the concessions made between the mutually competitive objectives of the Government, linking the budget with adopted policies, strategies, programmes, laws and improving the results of the programme by increasing transparency, accountability of funding predictability. This law introduces certain obligations that I will make only some, since there are many. These are primarily income and income monitoring and expenditure and by source of funding. Then, the development of strategic plans for the relevant ministries and other state bodies, the creation of a strategy of government programmes for three years and its adoption by the Government, the inclusion of guarantees and consent provided by the local and regional self-government units to the legal person in majority ownership, and the units within the scope of the possible responsibility of local and regional self-government units, and the ex ante consent of the finance minister to units of local, regional or regional self-government which wish to provide a guarantee to the legal person in the majority ownership of that unit. The current way of granting consent, i.e. guarantees for the task of commercial and municipal companies, has led to the cover-up of the local unit's additional duties. In fact, the borrowings of utility companies can create additional financial risks, destabilise local budgets and increase non-tax burden on citizens such as increases, e.g. the price of municipal fees and contributions, as well as various kinds of water charges as we have recently had the example of obviously, therefore, in the city of Zagreb. In a large number of cases of borrowing through utility companies have become a means of bypassing existing government budget constraints since these responsibilities have so far failed to qualify units of local and regional, or regional self-government. Since a large number of municipal companies do not realise incomes which would be able to service their obligations and responsibilities, it often comes to the situation that commitments must be recovered either from the budget of units of local and regional self-government, thereby disrupting the business of those units or increasing the price of services offered by municipal companies to citizens. I therefore consider this law to be of high quality because, with everything I have stated, it will introduce further transparency and accountability and order in the duties and operations of units of local and regional self-government. And that is why I am ultimately giving full support to this draft budget law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13279	Thank you. Dear representative Nevenka Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13280	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, respected representatives of the Ministry of Finance, colleagues and colleagues. The development of an efficient and sustainable system of governance of public finances requires and an institutional framework which, in addition to ensuring fiscal discipline, will also focus on ensuring strategic asset allocations and more efficient provision of public services. Although the current law is drawn up on the modern principles of programming planning, accounting in line with international accounting standards and measures to ensure macroeconomic stability is lacking in practical implementation of part of the provisions, as well as in clearer and more specific rules of relations, rights and accountability between state and local institutions and functions in the budget system. I'll just count some. This is a valid law that prevents access from the top to bottom, then lack of flexibility in the management of the budget, ministries and other bodies of the state administration that narrows down, or restricts the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to introduce a system based on success and to increase public management responsibilities, and then does not comply with the financial regulations of the European Union particularly in the part of the management of irregularities and fraud. Then, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a series of documents, which are strategies for improving the modernisation of the process in the state treasury system, and then a strategy for reforming the state administration where strategic planning is being introduced and the European Union has, meanwhile, pointed to a weak link between strategic and budgetary planning, i.e. a better connection between one and the other. Therefore, this draft budget regulates exactly what is not well done or not implemented so far and sets out the basic preconditions necessary for ensuring financial discipline, but for quality management of public funds resulting from strategic planning and also for macroeconomic stability. The need for adoption is therefore linked to the negotiations in Chapter 22. Regional policy and coordination of structural instruments. Therefore, as regards these negotiations, the law needs to be ensured, the possibility of multi-annual planning, the transfer of unimplemented projects in the following year, greater flexibility in budget implementation, and that the limitation for the borrowing of units of local and regional self-government does not apply to projects co-financed by the European Union funds. The new draft law in relation to the current one means the introduction of strategic planning and the development of a three-year strategy of the Government's programmes to directly affect the allocation of funds within the budget. And the aim of this measure is to strengthen, therefore, the link between strategic and budgetary planning. The second news is that the Croatian Parliament, i.e. the representative body of the units of local and regional self-government, brings a budget for one financial year as well as projections for the following two. The next news is that the Croatian Parliament, i.e. the representative body of the unit of local and regional self-government, brings the budget to a higher level of economic classification, i.e. the level of the sub-group compared to the previous one, means the level of section. This is precisely the adoption of the higher-level budget as one of the key mechanisms for which the ministries and other state bodies will give the required flexibility in the implementation of the budget. Because they are also responsible for implementing their programmes and are in line with the budget. The next news is keeping an existing detailed level of reporting, half-yearly and annually, and that's good because it's a standard that has been achieved and that I can't and that we have to keep. The next news is the inclusion of guarantees and consent that units of local and regional self-government give to municipal societies and other legal entities owned by local units but in scope, this is a very good provision, within the scope of possible borrowing and local and regional self-government units. It's not limited in one good way, it's not denied for no reason. I will support this law in the first row because it fully supports two basic rules of financial management, but the Golden Rule mentioned here means borrowing allowed only to finance investments, business will be financed from business revenue, but also a rule of sustainable investment by which borrowing must not cross the line over which debt service becomes difficult. That's what I don't understand, with one part of the mayor, this provision is just protecting mayors from new attacks and new responsibilities. I may mention briefly only the experience of the Zadar County, which, with the help of the European Commission delegation in Zagreb, built a second generation of development strategic plans and this plan for the period 2002 to 2006, and from 2006 to 2010. The coordination of these documents with sources of funds, i.e. with budgets, means both the county and the state and the EU funds and other sources have ensured quality implementation and implementation of the strategic objectives outlined, measures and activities and allowed us to be much closer to the realization of the drawn vision. That's exactly what I expect from this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13281	Thank you. Dear Representative Biljana Borzana. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13282	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, I'm sorry there's no minister here anymore. I would like to say to his exposure that my soul would hurt at any other opportunity which he regrets is not coming to the understanding of mayors, mayors, mayors who are not members of the HDZ because, therefore, they do not understand what the ministry has designed, but at this point I am pleased that this cry from the local level has affected the minister's presentation today that there will be some amendments to this law. But we haven't seen these amendments, I can't talk about them, so I'm going to look back at what we've been getting as agents in materials, and that's a bill with an explanation. In his presentation, the minister tried to banish the changes that will happen in the law as if it were some kind of minimal change, but I would say that it is a key change that will certainly make problems and prevent some of the development projects from being realised in local self-government units. This is actually a law that shows in the clearest possible way how much this government is really willing to decentralisation Croatia. On the one hand, the government's mouth is full of decentralisation, and then when it comes to being able to do something concrete, it shows a drastic centralization. Absolutely, as I have already said to my colleagues in the replica, I am in favour of curbing, or controlling each borrowing, and also of that, a clear unit of local self-government, but economists and bankers unanimously agree that cities and municipalities are wherever and where better they have credit ratings from the state, which means that cities, municipalities and counties are wiser to finance than the state. So I honestly find it funny that a government that's obviously less capable of smarting up and putting under control those who do it better than she does. I would quite understand that the thing is the other way around, that cities and municipalities, or ruling in local self-government units are acting like drunken billionaires, and the government is doing everything without a mistake, and then at some point deciding to slap a handful of tables and say it's enough, but at a time when the country's debt is 84 billion kuna and nobody can convince me with any reserve that exists that it's a negligible amount or it's not worrying, and the local self-government unit is 1.6 billion kuna, so less than 2%, I find any government intervention ridiculous. At the same time, the government does not impose any restrictions on its duties, so it is absolutely double criteria. That's part of the problem. The second part of the problem lies in the fact that the bill makes it quite unclear how the minister will make decisions except that it says it will be decided within 40 days of the submission of the valid application. Now I wonder what a valid request is. As taught by experience so far, I don't think I'm exaggerating when I say that those demands coming from cities, municipalities where HDZ is in power, will be approved almost before they're sent, and where HDZ isn't in power, every point and point will be looked at and any trickery will be done to stop the implementation of the projects. Such logic does not today hide with the desire to break the spirit of voters who do not vote for HDZ. But I think, or I'm sure the local elections will show that voters in these cities know very well why they won't vote for HDZ and they won't do it at any cost. This logic could have a certain counterproductive effect for HDZ because it could result in the demotivation of HDZ voters in environments where the party is not in power because these people could simply become tired that the hostages of such a policy, i.e. the government's maternal relationship with units, or cities and municipalities in which they still live well. The material that we've received on many occasions also mentions in various contexts the notion of undermining the government's efforts, and I wonder what about undermining local self-government units just to breathe normally and to stop the government from blowing their necks. It has already been mentioned here, it is completely unacceptable that the government is passing this law without consulting the association of cities and happiness, so there is the Internet, so we can find out something useful there, or what the government has been discussing and what it has concluded. I think a government that should function in a way that works in the citizens' interest should ask those who live the problem. Finally, I wonder if there is an honest and real concern of the Government about the borrowing of a local self-government unit, which I fully doubt, why did not the minister resort instead of approval to some other solution, such as the introduction of a credit register of borrowing companies owned by cities and municipalities or, say, the establishment of a body that would monitor and prevent uncontrollable growth of responsibilities? I think, unfortunately, the answer is quite clear, because it would simply be a step further in decentralisation and democratisation of Croatia, and obviously this government is absolutely not responding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13283	Thank you. We have corrections to an incorrect quote. He is the first respected representative of Kreso Filipovic. Here you go. Is it my fault? No, no, sorry. Matkovic, the esteemed.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13284	Dear Mr. Vice President, I think this distinguished colleague Borzan has said so many of these things that man doesn't know where he'd actually start, which confirms that she doesn't really understand this bill. I mean, talking about this government actually giving only to those who are HDZ, I think, so it's absolutely, it's deplaced colleagues of the Borzan. I mean, who's the one this government prevented from borrowing? ... I told you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's one thing, and the other... Just a moment, dear fellow Members, let me finish, and then you can move on as the one who directs the course of this session allows you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I also think about saying that this is a question that actually prevents those who do good work, so it's also deplaced, so this law is actually just going to make it impossible for those who are in debt beyond what they can't continue to serve, so it has to be clear to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13285	Thank you. And distinguished representative Susana Bilić Vardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13286	Dear Vice-President, I would like to correct the incorrect allegation of a distinguished colleague who spoke several times in her debate about the Macedonian relationship between the Croatian Democratic Community and the government towards the units of local self-government in which the opposition is in power, that they will be banned from credit. If that were the case, Zagreb and Varazdin would not be the most in charge units in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13287	Thank you. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Dear Representative Kreso Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13288	Dear Mr. Vice President, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. Here I am, right at the beginning of this debate, going on and on about how I was impressed by Mr. Czecho's debate, which I would say that in some way everything in this debate was put into place and that he was talking about political cynicism. I think we could have noticed earlier in this debate how much political cynicism there is, so different and double criteria apply when it comes to me, then it's okay, and when it comes to someone else, it's not okay. I don't think that's correct or fair in this debate. I would also like to stress that Mr. Schucker and Mr. Maric, the Secretary of State, have really impressed me with their arguments and that certain doubts have been removed immediately in the beginning of the debate on this law, where I think we will ultimately fully support all the clubs of this law. This law can be said to be one of the most important legal proposals for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, meaning for the entire economy and our country as a whole. As with this law, as with many cases so far, our legislation is in line with the acquis of the European Union, but this is not a crucial and fundamental reason why this law is being passed. As the budget is the most important programming and financial document of each country which clearly reflects the strategic definition of the current policy, the development programmes and the objectives that these programmes want to achieve are defined by both fiscal and economic policy of the next period. It should also be pointed out that the Budget Law is also the fundamental and most important regulation governing the area of public finances and sets out the basic preconditions necessary for the preservation of fiscal discipline, for the quality of public funds management and for the macroeconomic stability which, fortunately, our beautiful state has managed to achieve and preserve by the end of 2007. Personally, I am sincerely convinced by estimating the results achieved in the previous period, that the macroeconomic stability achieved in the previous period will also be maintained in the next period, so that we do not talk about all those macroeconomic indicators that I hope will be fully preserved. I'm going to skip one part of this debate because there's really a lot of things being said here today, but I think it's very important to mention a few facts that I'm not here to date, at least in the discussions that have been, I could hear. And this is the fact that the true order, although the law, which was a valid budget law which was really a prerequisite and a basis for the introduction of fiscal discipline, is that fiscal discipline in the area of public finances was not introduced until 2005 when a system of state Treasury was introduced, which represents the most effective mechanism of quality public finances management. I would also like to stress that the same year, so in 2005, as a second important fact, has started to work intensively on establishing an internal control and audit system for budgetary users, and the point on these issues has been put forward by the adoption of the Law on the Internal Financial Control System in the public sector of 2006. And the third thing we never want to admit to ourselves is that the quality of the work of inspection services has been significantly raised mainly by the tax administration. So all of these facts that I was talking about, the three of these basics and the main facts contributed to it, or they resulted in us establishing a stable financial and fiscal discipline in the public sector, we created a meaning and assumption for its improvement. We have contributed to the savings of budgetary users and budgets at all levels, better quality and more efficient management of public funds and strengthening fiscal capacity, which is very important, as the rule of law has covered a large part of the gray market with its system. I wouldn't mention here any more in detail what this law adopts and regulates. I think that when it comes to local self-government units, I'm as surprised as my colleague who just said that certain mayors are objecting to the fact that they're somehow being controlled. For me, it is a clean establishment of debt control and order control in the general public finances, and I think the ministry should go in that direction, and those doubts that existed will be removed as announced by the finance minister. I'm going to mention only two elements of the most important thing that I think brings to mind the new Budget Law. Thus, strategic planning is being introduced in the development and development of a three-year strategy of government programmes. The budget will be adopted at a higher level of economic qualification, which is a good mechanism for greater freedom when managing the budget, means users of the budget, i.e. ministries and other state bodies. Since I am truly convinced that this law will contribute to the improvement of the public finances system in the Republic of Croatia, I will personally fully support this law. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13289	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Biljana Borzana.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13290	Dear fellow MP, you've already mentioned here several times, it's not about anyone being afraid if it's under the law that something terrible is about to happen to him right now. It's just that I see that even colleagues in HDZ don't know it, that we are, I'm going to tell you a concrete example. The local and state elections that took place at the 11th month, HDZ went to the daily newspaper with an ad to motivate its voters to vote for HDZ and local and state, as the only way for local self-government units to make good progress is for HDZ to be local in power. So understand this justifiable fear of us living in cities where HDZ is not in power.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13291	Thank you. ... You called too late. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please don't throw it out of the bench. Calm down. Let's move on with the debate. Dear Representative Gordan Maras. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue on this wheel. Dear Representative Davor Bernardić. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue on this wheel. Does the lawmaker's representative want to take the floor? Yeah. Dear Zdravko Maric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13292	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs. So here we had in the morning we could say so, bile debate and exclusive and the only emphasis was on borrowing units of local and regional self-government, i.e. legal persons and associations therefore owned by them. I am glad that at least this afternoon's debate has been a little bit more touched by the segments of the Budget Law for which we at the Ministry of Finance, in fact, and in the Government, of course, believe that they are extremely important and relevant. The esteemed representative Lesar touched it that way, and the other MPs also mentioned themselves about multi-annual planning and strategic planning. We think it's an extraordinary newspaper and an upgrade to the existing system. I said in the opening speech that the existing Budget Law was created in more than a satisfactory way to fulfill its basic postulates and actually its intention when it was introduced. However, today we are looking and need in any case to continue the development and quality management of public finances and this modeality. As for the higher level of classification that we have heard at the same time during the afternoon debate, I must honestly say that we in the Ministry of Finance were, in fact, in part, prepared to be there by parliamentary critics. I am very pleased that parliamentary representatives and clubs have recognised that this higher level of classification in budgeting gives one greater flexibility to budgeting users, and in any case does not reduce information, openness and transparency of the state budget. Is what we have highlighted and what you have also well noticed, therefore the reporting system remains on the same so-called. Level four. I'm sorry there's no Ms. MP who left, I'd just end up saying about these numbers we've heard. So, as far as the total debt of local and regional self-government units is concerned, in any case, I am glad to read the publication issued by the Ministry of Finance monthly, on a regular basis, but I must tell you inside, the debt of local and regional self-government units of these billions and 600, which stands only 53 largest units of local and regional self-government. When we add up everyone else, that debt goes up to 3.9 billion kuna. This should also be added to the guarantees and liabilities issued under the 4.3 billion guarantees and plus in this entire bill, it should certainly be said that they are also more than 5 billion kunas. Of course, 20% of those coverages still need to count definitely outstanding liabilities. Anyway, I'd like to thank you eventually. Minister Shuker also said, in fact, about our thinking and our views regarding the financing and borrowing of units of local and regional self-government, so that this law and the bill of law are in any case aimed at further introducing order, transparency, and in no case is aimed at limiting and stopping development, developing projects of individual units of local and regional self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13293	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Goran Beus Richemberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13294	The Honorable Mr. Secretary of State said, describing the method of balancing the calculation of the debt units of local self-government, that both guarantees and consent are involved. I'm correcting that assumption, because that is certainly what all employees of local self-government units who bought a refrigerator or some other household supplies are entering into this method. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13295	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13296	We are going to the final draft budget law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 115. The debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the Government submitted amendments in accordance with Article 166. Rules of Procedure. The amendments tabled must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present. Who's in favour of having a debate on the government's amendments? Please, let's get on with it. Let's vote. The result? This proposal to discuss the government amendment 102 votes in favour, 14 abstentions and 8 against. I would ask the applicant's representative to further explain the government's amendment. The Government's amendments to Article 12 are the first amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13297	Therefore, the following principle of transparency shows that it is necessary to establish that the "National Journal" or in the official report of the unit of local, regional or regional self-government should publish projections as well as changes and additions to projections.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13298	Thank you. I'm opening an amendment debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting the amendment by raising my hands. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. This amendment was first accepted unanimously by 136 votes. ... I read what I see up there. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please, 136 votes in. Next, what is it? Oppose and abstention? One against but it seems to me that there was more. Two against. No abstentions. The first amendment of the government was accepted. Amendment 2 of the Government to Article 39
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13299	Therefore, Article 39(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013 is replaced by the following: The final draft budget law is prescribed that the Croatian Parliament or the representative body shall adopt a budget at the level of the group of economic classification for the following financial year and projections at the level of the group of economic classification for the next two financial years by the end of the current year, within a time limit allowing for the implementation of the budget from 1 January of the following year for which the budget is to be adopted. It is therefore necessary to establish that, in addition to the amendments and additions to the budget implemented under the budgetary procedure, the amendments and the addition of the projection are implemented in accordance with the procedure for the adoption of the projections.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13300	Thank you. I'm opening a debate on the second amendment. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? This amendment was accepted, I think three were against, 132 for, 3 against and 2 abstentions. You didn't see Mr. Lesar there. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13301	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I suggest that I explain 3, 4, 5 and 6 because they're closely connected, they're tied to each other so I suggest that I explain these four amendments together if you agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13302	So the explanation for all fours, three, four, five and six.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13303	Therefore, the amendments and additions to Article 90 make it more clear which units are actually local, under which the terms of the unit of local self-government can be committed and also the majority of legal persons in the majority of direct or indirect ownership of the units of local or regional self-government are irrefutable for the purpose of further development and raising the quality of services they provide. And I think that, these four amendments are on the trail of the debate that was being held in this House. This is for a clearer explanation which companies can borrow without entering the unit of local self-government quota and also that companies cannot, or institutions that enter the borrowing quota of local self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13304	Thank you. I'm opening a debate on these four amendments. Representative Mr. Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13305	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This is bad law. This is a dangerous law. This law will cause huge damage to local self-government. The local self-government has never been as marginalized as it is today, especially as it will be. But what is the essence of this law is that we will destroy the municipal companies with these legal solutions. I know you're from some of these utility companies, holding companies, public-private partnerships and so on sucking out money and it should be put to rest, but it should also be noticed that the minister's influence was never as strong as it would be under this law. Indeed, as someone here said: "There is no need for the mayor or mayor to choose directly anymore. It would be enough to choose a minister." The only problem is that the minister of citizens does not choose but is chosen by the prime minister who gets the mandate by the citizens. This law, I'm sure won't last much, maybe a year. It will reduce economic activity in this country but what is far worse decisions will also be made in future by discretion as decisions on borrowing or I don't know how to issue guarantees or now and this determination of someone's financial capacity will be determined up in some ministry. But what I want to say to public companies is that they're the backbone of a city. And I'd almost dare mention that it's better to paralyze local self-government than public enterprises. I know there's a lot of nepotism in these public enterprises, maybe something else. Money is no longer estranged in ministries, cities, but at these levels, but what is essential is that, without loans, you or such entities cannot exist. I will indeed vote against this law and I think that nothing fundamentally changes with these amendments except that we will face the problem of local self-government very quickly.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13306	Thank you. Government amendments can be discussed by clubs. On behalf of the SDP Club, I don't know if it's on behalf of Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13307	Yeah. The SDP Club, although these are improved solutions compared to the original text of the law, cannot accept these amendments that you have spoken of. We can't accept for a few reasons. First of all, these are amendments that certainly differ from what this law carries and that's P.Z.E. These amendments are not in the spirit and in line with the legislation and acquis of the European Union. These amendments are contrary to the European Charter of Local Self-Government. These amendments, and hence the law, are contrary to the Croatian Constitution. The amendment to Article 78 has given rise to consent and guarantees. To write here that guarantees are included in capacity then it would be acceptable to do so, but to say that consents are included in the borrowing capacity directly affects the reduction of capacity and the possibility of borrowing units of local self-government, and it is not clear from the law whether this will be applied retroactively to the existing situation or only to what will be raised in the future, loans raised. As regards Amendment 4 to Article 90, I think there are additional problems here, because the market position of emerging companies is being hampered in an indirect way, i.e. again, businesses and institutions are being put into the same basket, and those institutions that are therefore the unit of local self-government are being established. The problem here is that there is complete discrimination against the institution that was founded by the local self-government units. Of all other institutions whose units of local self-government are not the founder, including state institutions. Therefore, the debt of state institutions does not enter into the borrowing capacity of the Republic of Croatia as well as the borrowing of companies owned by the loss-making state does not enter the debt capacity or the debt deficit of the Republic of Croatia. We believe that this amendment and the Budget Law have a harsh impact on the independence and autonomy of local self-government. This is one law that goes towards centralization of this country. It also goes towards political discretion to transfer funds from the state budget and not to allow local self-government to manage its own development. For example, the fact that new assets must be created out of debt has simply not been respected. So they don't go into consumption, they don't go into liquidity, they just go into new assets, and if from nothing else it's a guarantee that they can get those loans back. On the other hand, this is simply a prerequisite for development because local self-government units are not in an equal position in Croatia today. Some have generous support from the state budget. Unfortunately, some units of local self-government cannot in any way obtain support for their development projects. For these reasons, the SDP Club cannot support these amendments and since it was not ready to bring these amendments and the law into line with the European Charter of Local Self-Government and the legal property of the European Union on local self-government, we will not be able to support the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13308	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. ... On behalf of the club? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And when you called, I didn't see. And here you are, Mr. Richembergh, on behalf of the HNS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13309	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Croatian People's Party Club does not, of course, support either this approach to changing the basic proposal or the spirit of this law. We respect the proposal's natural intensities for some negative processes in borrowing and over-indebted local self-government to be put under control. We certainly do not support this attempt to limit the development of all and to create an atmosphere in which only similar ones will be able to develop and lend loans to those who have development projects but do not belong to the majority of the ruling coalition in Croatia will then be looked at in all possible ways to prevent further development and borrowing. After all, the minister in the debate here in this Croatian Parliament said clearly and loudly that thanks to this proposal by Velika Gorica until he is the minister won't get 50 new buses. Thank you very much. Wait, no, no. Wait a minute. I beg you, I beg you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13310	These amendments, the 4 amendments are in the government's debate is debate. I can only discuss clubs. On behalf of the Government, which has spoken of the amendments, I therefore conclude the debate and put to the vote Amendment 3. Government. Who is for this amendment please raise your hand. Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. The result? 3rd Amendment to Article 87 The government was accepted with 81 votes for, 47 against and one abstention. I shall vote on Amendment 4 to Article 90. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. This amendment 4 has been accepted with 81 votes for, 43 against and 5 abstentions. We vote on Amendment 5 to Article 124. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. This amendment 5 to Article 124 was adopted by 81 votes to 46 against and 2 abstentions. I Amendment 6 to Article 125. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? This amendment was accepted with 81 votes for, 46 against and 2 abstentions. And we're going to the seventh amendment to article 115. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13311	This amendment adopts... from the European Commission to comply with the law in the internal financial control system in the public sector for the reasons that many units of local self-government have disobeyed this provision. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13312	Thank you. I am opening a debate on Amendment 7 on Article 115. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. The 7th amendment was accepted by 120 votes to, 7 against and 3 abstentions. I 8 of the Government's amendment to Article 116.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13313	Same explanation as for 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13314	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I shall vote on Amendment 8 to Article 116. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. Amendment 8 was accepted with 125 votes in favour, 5 against and one abstention. Thank you. We are moving to the amendments of the Legislative Committee. We have an amendment to Article 12.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13315	Mr. President, if I may, the government accepts all amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13316	Thank you very much. They become an integral part of the proposal. Therefore, first on Article 12, and so on all the amendments submitted by the Committee on Legislatives from 1 to the final 18 of the amendments to Article 133 were adopted. I am voting on the final draft budget law. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This law was adopted with 81 votes for, 1 abstention and 50 against along with accepted amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13317	We move to the seventh item of the agenda - Criminal Procedure Act, first reading of P.Z.E. No. 116. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply to Articles 144 to 150. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Law. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Tatjana Vučetic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13318	Honored Vice President, esteemed MPs and MPs. You have before you a proposal for a new Code of Criminal Procedure. In recent years, a number of research has been carried out to prepare a full reform of the Croatian criminal proceedings in professional associations of criminal proceedings bodies, scientific institutions and individual efforts, together with a simultaneous analysis of acts by the Council of Europe and legal sources of the rules of criminal proceedings in the European Union. The research carried out has shown that the possibilities for further partial reforms of the Criminal Procedure Act are very limited, almost exhausted, that the system at a normative level is a percentage of interference to achieve greater efficiency and better protection of rights and freedoms, too long duration of criminal proceedings, and in some components legal arrangements requires optimal alignment with the rules of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and Decisions provided for in European countries. Therefore, in the third month of 2007 the Government of the Republic of Croatia established and adopted the principles for the creation of a new Criminal Procedure Act, based on which this proposal was drawn up. As a key reform of the criminal proceedings, it can be singled out: the reform of the previous procedure, the consistent separation of the data collection function for the service carried out by the State's lawyer from the decision-making process which is the right and duty of the judge. So it's a court case, and it's a prosecutor's investigation. The introduction of a criminal investigator as a body acting at the request of a state attorney. The introduction of a judge's investigation as a new body in the decision-making process instead of the current cumulation of the research and decision-making function in one person, the person of the investigating judge. The introduction of new forms of accelerated treatment, the resolution of easier cases by calming down, the agreement, the short-term prosecution with adequate damages to the victim, the simplification of the conduct of preparations for the debate, the extension of the scope of the parties' penalty agreements and the reform of the shortened procedure, as well as the improvement of the procedural rules governing effective action measures such as measures to ensure the presence and measures of the procedural discipline, the reform of the rules on certain procedural units and certain procedural actions. The very system of proposals differs from the current Criminal Procedure Act. The law on criminal proceedings has three parts, and proposal five. The key differences between the Criminal Procedure Act and the proposal in a systematic manner are that the proposal deploys provisions in a regular and shortened procedure, while this is regulated in one section by the Criminal Procedure Act as the course of the procedure. The proposal provides for key news in the previous procedure. The provisions on the previous procedure are classified as criminal prosecution, investigation, evidence, prosecution. Criminal persecution, investigation and prosecution regulate a new course of the dynamics of the process, and evidence of the structure and conduct of the individual action. It's the core of a new arrangement of the entire criminal procedure. The concept and content of the new provisions on investigation and prosecution are, and the provisions are regulated according to the models of contemporary acoustic procedures. There's less news in the provisions in the debate. In the current Criminal Procedure Act, this is the main debate and in the provisions on legal medicines. In the proposal, an extraordinary legal remedy, the extraordinary mitigation of penalties, has been left out. This reduces the number of exceptional legal medicines. The proposal regulates the regular procedure as a general, common rules which are subsidized if there is no specific rule. The shortened procedure under which the rules are expected to lead most of the criminal proceedings is regulated as a simplified procedure. Special so-called the wrong of criminal proceedings, the proposal shall determine at the heart of the current Criminal Procedure Act and the proposal shall also contain transitional and final provisions. Now I would like to introduce you in short lines to the changes, or to the most significant news on the heads of the proposal. The second person's head shall be governed by the jurisdiction of the courts. The actual jurisdiction will be governed by a special law. This would, according to the current state of law, be the Law on Courts. Chapter 4 contains general provisions on the rights and duties of a State lawyer. These rights are regulated in accordance with the new procedural position of the State's attorney. The motion abolishes the court's investigation and there's no more investigative judge. The state's attorney is the subject who's leading the investigation. According to the new proposal, during the criminal proceedings, a neutral entity deciding on rights is establishing a balance between the opposing parties, the state lawyer and the defendant and, where necessary, regulating their relations. In the previous procedure, there is primarily the judge of the investigation and later the second body of the court. In the previous procedure, he decides but no longer investigates. The judge in the previous procedure becomes a guarantee of the protection of rights and freedom. So the third in a two-party conflict. The fifth chapter regulates the rights of the victim and the damages. These provisions for the first time introduce a victim among participants of special rights proceedings into Croatian law. The victim has been defined in terms, taking into account the notional determination in international sources and foreign legislation. The victim has a special right because a criminal offence is a violation of the law, not just because it was partially damaged. The proposal introduces quite certain duties of the body of criminal proceedings in dealing with the victim. Head sixth in the title contains a novelty. He explicitly points out the defendants as the main subject of the criminal proceedings. In this chapter, the catalogue of the defendant's rights in criminal proceedings is systematically exposed. Those provisions shall, in the interest of importance, set out a provision providing for all cases in which the defendant must have a defender. It is significantly more specifically arranged to monitor the communication of the defendants and defenders. Chapter 9 regulates measures to ensure the presence and other precautionary measures. And because of the human rights procedure, these provisions have special importance. In this part of the proposal, significant news has been introduced in relation to the current Criminal Procedure Act, three of which are extremely significant. Detention as a first and short-term security measure imposed by a state lawyer replacing detention under the current Criminal Procedure Act. An appeal to the state's attorney's decision is decided by the judge of the investigation. Another important news has to do with the conduct of the arrests. The proposal regulates that the arrester surrenders himself to a particularly authorised police officer, a detention officer responsible for the arrester and detainee. The officer is responsible for the legality of the arrest and the regularity of handling the arrestee and the detainee, so the person deprived of liberty at the time until she is not in the court-supervised investigative prison. The detention supervisor is not involved in the investigation of a criminal offence. The third news is an investigative prison, which may take longer time before a court ruling. It is a substantive detention under the current Criminal Procedure Act. Head twelfth. The most important news in this chapter is the provisions governing delivery. This introduces a new approach to the delivery of witnesses and experts primarily carried out by parties if the Registrar of the Court fails and the defendant's delivery for court hearings is taken over by the Registrar of the Court. The removal of the problem of unwarranted absence of invited persons who significantly burden the effectiveness of the criminal proceedings shall be achieved through consistent application of procedural penalties for insubordination, the division of the burden of ensuring the presence of witnesses between the court and the party in which the court shall only assist the individual party with the possible application of procedural rules to ensure the presence of its witnesses and the transfer of administrative calls of persons and to ensure their presence before the judge to the administrative staff of the court under the supervision of the Registrar. Effective delivery is a key factor in the regular conduct of the criminal proceedings and delivery must be a promotion rather than a slowing component of the criminal proceedings. The 16th head's in charge of the prosecution. The news that introduces the proposal in this chapter of the law is that all the reconnaissances of the state's attorney can be carried out alone or ordered by the police. Under the current Code of Criminal Procedure, the State's Attorney could only take on a law specifically prescribed by means of a reconnaissance. The proposal in the provisions of this chapter provides for significant news. A State lawyer may require a judge to take specific evidence actions prior to the start of the proceedings. In addition, under the legal conditions laid down, the order to take a special evidence action may also be issued by a public lawyer. Chapter 17 refers to the investigation. These are provisions on a new state-of-the-art investigation, which is crucial as part of the reform of criminal procedural legislation. The news is that an investigation can also be carried out against an unknown perpetrator. The familiarity with the current Criminal Procedure Act has been reduced. The main news of the proposal is that the investigation is conducted by a state attorney alone or entrusted with a warrant to conduct the actions of the investigator or police. The suspect doesn't have a legal remedy against the warrant. The investigator is the new subject of Croatian criminal proceedings. It's a person who, under legal authority, takes actions under the orders of a state attorney. The judge of the investigation is also a new entity in the Croatian criminal proceedings. It shall decide on the whole of the complex and mutually conditional relations of the participants of the proceedings. The judge in particular decides on procedures in the freedoms and rights of citizens. In addition, the judge of the investigation shall carry out an evidence hearing in the law of the intended cases. The evidence hearing is a new institution of the Croatian criminal proceedings aimed at not predicating the evidence to be used in the debate. A special place in view of the importance has a provision that determines and regulates content and lessons in rights. It is a novelty in the Croatian criminal procedure. This provision not only provides for certain content of the lesson on rights but also of the time in which it must be delivered to the defendant during the course of the proceedings. Heads of the eighteenth are rules on evidence. The proposal regulates evidence actions by taking over as the starting point of the provisions of the current Law on criminal proceedings on investigative actions. Those provisions have been amended and the provisions on new evidence actions have been added. An important innovation has been introduced in the search. An emergency search of the person and means of transport under specific conditions shall be carried out on the basis of a national legal order. The search warranted by the state's attorney is subject to a subsequent court order. Important news has been entered into the defendant's investigation evidence store. It's the only evidence store that provides for the defendant's active personal involvement. It is also an action of great importance for defence but also for proof. A significant novelty is the introduction of partial immunity of witnesses if it is in the interest of criminal proceedings. This sought to ensure the acquisition of statements in a situation of proof of necessity according to the principle of proportionality. Such a provision was not known by the current Criminal Procedure Act. And it can be very important in the procedures for serious crimes. The provisions on the eyewitness have introduced new developments with the reconstruction which in the current Criminal Procedure Act was the type of eyewitnesses added to the experiment. The catalogue of evidence stores has been expanded with three new actions; proof of video, correct and electronic evidence. Evidence works have also been arranged for actions which were special reconnaissances in the current Criminal Procedure Act. Chapter 19 refers to the charge. This part of the proceedings is arranged in a new way with the most important features: the mandatory examination of each indictment, the admission of the guilty, the possibility of agreeing on sanctions, the general powers of the court to dismiss the indictment or to return it to correction and addition and the possibility of a state attorney to withdraw the indictment. The proceedings before the defendant's council were arranged in detail. The accused council is investigating the indictment at a contradictory hearing and it is important that it takes care of the evidence base of the indictment. So the notification of evidence, the delay of notification, the withdrawal of illegal evidence that has been missed in the previous proceedings. The debate is arranged in chapter 21. In the proposal, there is no provision on the inquisition maximum according to which the court may provide evidence which has not been proposed by the parties or from which the executions have failed, although this is not explicitly prohibited. This emphasises the party's evidence initiative and the general accumulation of the procedure. It certainly requires the parties, above all the state's attorney's increased activity in action. Chapter 23 is governed by regular legal medicines. The concept of appeal has been detained. Still introduced here, some news has been introduced. Thus, the failure of a first-degree court to comply with the order of a second-degree court is foreseen among the absolutely essential infringements of the provisions of criminal proceedings. Significant news is in the provisions governing the appeal against the solution. This primarily refers to a whole series of specific provisions on appeal against certain solutions. Chapter 24 contains provisions on exceptional legal medicines. The most important thing is the novelty of abandoning these medicinal products from the system of exceptional mitigation of penalties. The common rules of the shortened procedure are in Chapter 25 and Chapter 26, which regulates the procedures for issuing a criminal order and giving a court notice. The shortened procedure shall be governed by the proposal for criminal offences for which the jurisdiction of the Municipal Court is prescribed. It's a general provision. And the legal provision excludes certain offences from the general provision and leads to regular proceedings. The decision-making area of the state's attorney has been expanded according to the principle of opportunity. The number of forms of indictments, indictments and private lawsuits has been reduced. For offences for which a shortened investigation procedure has been prescribed, it shall in no case be mandatory. The area of application of the criminal order has been extended to criminal offences for which I prescribed a prison sentence of up to 5 years. The rights of the damages as a condition for issuing a criminal order are prescribed more precisely. It is significant that a criminal order can also be given to a legal person according to the new arrangement. The introduction of new forms of accelerated procedures in the regular and shortened procedure follows modern legislative tendencies in the most developed European countries. This aims to achieve two key objectives. The first dispensation of courts from holding discussions in cases where the situation is such that they can be terminated without discussion or with the conduct of a hearing only in giving sanctions. In addition to appropriate application practice, significant acceleration of the process can be expected, reduction of the total number of hearing hearings and long-term very significant budgetary savings. The second objective is to concentrate the court on cases in which a debate is needed because of their weight or complexity. This, in addition to appropriate practice, should significantly raise the quality of the procedure and improve the dynamics of the work in these generally complex cases. The accelerated proceedings in the ordinary criminal proceedings are the pronunciation of the rulings under the agreement of the parties, the proceedings under direct indictment, the debate on the imposition of criminal sanctions following the recognition of the accused. And the speedy procedures, the forms of proceedings in the shortened procedure are: saying the verdicts on the basis of the party's agreement, giving a sentence with a criminal order, giving a verdict with a court notice and discussing criminal sanctions after the indictee's recognition. The extended whole of accelerated procedures in the new Criminal Procedure Act could result in a reduction of the number of complete discussions by around 40%, with appropriate practice in the shortened procedure. This is very significant for the entire area of criminal trial. The procedure for compensation for damages and the exercise of other rights of unjustly convicted or unfounded arrested persons has been abandoned. This should be regulated by special law and the provisions of Chapter 30 of the present Criminal Procedure Act should apply until its adoption. I would like to point out that it provides for the selective application of certain parts of the new Criminal Procedure Act in view of significant financial resources, necessary time for education under the State's Attorney's Office and the Police Administration. The entry into force of the root changes requiring technical and organisational adjustments on 1.9.2011, while provisions contributing to the acceleration and efficiency of the procedure do not require major adjustments to apply from 1.10.2009. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13319	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13320	Ms. Secretary of State incorrectly stated that the main principles were thus declared in 2007 to which the law was drawn up. The main principles of 2007. It is simply not true that here as a minister I had the honour of in 2002 to form a working group to draft this bill and that in the end the government in the past term spent its entire mandate on this issue convincing the public that the law is not, just as it is not finished. And you're telling us now that the government adopted the principles for making this law in 2007. If what you just said is true, then I apologize to you, but that means the government lied for four years.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13321	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? Oh, no? [[Intruder: Yes.]] [[Intruder: Committee.]] I'm opening a debate. And first they're clubs. Dear representative, on behalf of the SDP Club, respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go. I guess not with this way, but we'll see.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13322	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The criminal proceedings or the Code of Criminal Procedure together with the Penal Code are one, one way that society, as one society, is, is that one state fights crime. And right now, let me say why the new Criminal Procedure Act has come into being, whose proposal we now have a chance to see and discuss. And before I say anything, it should be noted that we had a significant novel just in 2002, which in some way introduced some newspapers that were unimaginable in that older system, and in order to open up space and road to our new criminal procedure so that this transition would simply not be so sudden, perhaps even painful. To move from this old concept of the Criminal Procedure Act, which in its official procedure has an investigation and to focus on a new criminal procedure almost absolutely acute, which excludes the investigation from the formal procedure. Surely it's one, it's a revolutionary enterprise in our history of criminal procedural law. For such a thing, the smallest problem is normatively to draft a bill. The biggest problem was, I think still remained and it is not known whether anything was done on that plan to prepare the participants of the criminal proceedings for such a new kind of criminal procedure. In the meantime, are our state's attorneys, and on their own regularity, the police are already trained or well qualified for this new procedure. Professor Krapac, who was head of this task force, always said that he was not in a hurry, because the least problem was to normably draft the law, that this could be done in a few months and before, rather than that the problem was just to prepare the state's attorney's office, to prepare the police, but also other participants of criminal proceedings for this way of procedure. Especially should we forget that these are the most sensitive issues. In criminal proceedings, it is decided on man's greatest values, on his freedom, on his property, on his dignity, and therefore the first provision of every law on criminal proceedings as “our Father” begins, that these are norms which are decided on the course of action, that none of the innocent be condemned, but that none of the guilty take away the hand of justice. And it's very interesting that all procedures throughout history were more or less liberal or democratic, always trying to apostrophe that fact and the danger of innocent being convicted of being more dangerous than being released. In our legal history, we have recently witnessed that many guilty people have withdrawn the hands of justice and protected them out of time, and when this happens and it is no longer an exception, then there is a danger of innocent being convicted by some human desire for compensation and there are great dangers. And that's why this is one very, very sensitive and serious law to that more which regulates it on a whole new basis for which we were all warmly advocated that such a procedure should go and that is nothing controversial. It is not disputed to know the pure accounts by the principle of that old and ancient actor's non-practice reus absolvitur. If the prosecutor does not prove the defendant during the proceedings, the defendant shall be released. Is there anything fairer? But just for such a game, such a procedure should be uniformly armed by both the parties and the state's attorney, but the bogs and the defenses and the bogs from the very beginning. We see to the state's attorney, the state's attorney's office in general is given enormous authority. And to whom a great deal has been given, a great deal is asked, and we ask them for great responsibility for the outcome of their conduct. Imagine the disgrace investigation being conducted, it's the pre-examination procedure which is absolutely now in the hands of the state's attorney's office, and there's hardly any evidence and it's smooth to be released. What a disgrace! But then it's a clean procedure, a clean thing where we determine exactly who's responsible for what procedure and why we went to change this procedure? Because no one knew who was responding, who was responsible, and for some of the successes, they were all the first to come forward. Police who wouldn't answer for months to the state's attorney's inquiry and no one could do anything to them. If something positive were to be done, the investigation would have started faster, and the ministers themselves would have called and picked up some small points. But they were very skilled at transferring responsibility to other participants of an official procedure, or to an investigative judge or to a state attorney's office or to a court in general. But there were reverse situations when the police put up with nothing. Now, we're looking for a procedure in which to know exactly who's doing what, great powers, but the colors behind all powers follow and responsibility. Is that exactly how it was originally imagined right now, and that's why I think even though I've corrected your incorrect, as an incorrect assumption that in 2007 and changed those principles, even though I say as a minister, I've then formed a working group far away in 2002 on some principles that were not at that time controversial? But in 2007, you obviously brought new principles, because we see them in the process. First of all, we see that the judge is missing because the investigation is no longer carried out by the court, but rather by such actions as the State Secretary is carrying out by the state's attorney, or the police redistributive force on his orders. However, there is a possibility that this judge of investigation, which is designed as only a controller, is the only one that is really necessary, because that is what all systems have that has no investigation. Someone has to control what the state's attorney and police will do, because it would be as much like Professor Krapac, who is now the judge of the Constitutional Court to say, it was to chase the law alluding to the Stalinist times when no one would control it. And it's good to control, but investigatively, that is, the judge of the investigation is given here in this procedure, which relativises the whole process and again, even though we have a new structure that leads to old solutions and relativization of responsibility for the outcome of the procedure. In addition to those powers, the judge is given the opportunity to assess the evidence, the quality of the evidence already at that stage of the investigation and to enable the blocking and stopping of the proceedings at that earliest stage. So where did he come from, and he didn't even spend those pre-examinations? He therefore puts himself in the position of trial as an individual who is not even qualified to do so but only for the controller of the legality of the handling and human rights of the defendants, but also for other participants in the proceedings. And what's with the standard? How did it even get to her? It refutes the whole concept of this. And that has no solution here Europeanly, all the countries that have abolished the investigation. It's impossible in this way to complete the proceedings at the stage of the investigation except for the formal reasons, and this is not a formal reason, so we gave the judge an investigation to judge, he doesn't have that possibility. If he's assessing the quality of the evidence, what's that? It's a trial. Therefore, this provision of Article 262 should be removed if we are to have a clean procedure as intended by a clean acoustic procedure. Furthermore, I have not been personally surprised by such a solution, so which is likely to have been decided for him recently, and I did not believe in it, nor in the SDP club that it is possible for the government to agree to part of its executive forces, bodies such as police forces, regular forces put under the authority and under the rule of the judicial authorities in the broadest sense, in this particular case under the authority, i.e. the authority of the State Attorney's Office. But if the state's attorney is responsible for the outcome of the case, he's responsible for the evidence that's been obtained, when they've been obtained, in what way, those who execute them, which are police regular forces, so is it logical that these same forces, these same police, these same directors answer to someone else than the one he issued the warrant to? Well, we've had a solution like this before, and that's why there's been this kind of beating to issue a warrant and it's binding a warrant, but he's not responding to the state's attorney's office, but the state's attorney's office is also responding to a public investigation like they did and the fam is already being created, and even in our media, there's a huge power of attorney, and those who need to answer to him are not responding, but who are they responding to? They're responding to politics, they're responding to the director, they're responding to the Minister of the Interior, and it's such a good-looking thing for delicate actions. Why should this be warned? Because we've had this situation so far and that's why we're changing the law and we have a similar solution again, and that's why all the good solutions won't be used if there's a solution like this. Well, the public confused this situation in the process of those police pursuits, of the official investigation, of the trial, of the appeal proceedings. Who's responsible here anyway? Now we want to say that the same procedure is responsible for the State's Attorney's Office, if it has taken the lead on a particular person, what evidence has collected, were these legal proceedings, and then in the trial, what was the quality of this evidence? Now with this dissatisfaction, with the lack of confidence in the judiciary, absolute mistrust, that's number one, and the other, which still wants to preserve absolute ingenuity over the police forces and not give even in this segment where they don't act preventively, so they act in the fight against crime and work where there can be only one line of command, and we still leave two lines of command. It's the State's Attorney's Office or the police, but it's already in the public figure of the State's Attorney's Office as responsible, as it is for those who have been given enormous powers, and it is for him to do so, but it must be known who suits them. The main debate remains not fully conducted according to the principles of acousticity, the judge remains, so the judge remains his authority and the possibility of clearing up some situations, he says, unless clarifications are sufficiently cleared. However, according to the judge, a fair debate is intended so that the judge concentrates only on the authorisation of evidence and the way it is carried out without having any involvement in the evidence brought before him equally by both parties, i.e. State's attorney as prosecutor and defendant, that is, his defense. This way we give him some authority that he doesn't need, and that's how we esculpate, help or defuse the work of a state attorney and cloud things again. If judging by the judge, if the Board of Directors finds that there is no evidence, then let them release it. Why would it help the state's attorney's office? And one more thing, the defense doesn't have the same opportunity in this preliminary procedure, and look at a little bit, here you are calling for an Italian solution where, as soon as the State's Attorney's office starts with any kind of action, it must automatically inform the suspect of both "difensors" and "strutors", i.e. A lawyer who also becomes an investigator has every authority to collect evidence with the same bodies as the State's Attorney's office. Let us not be afraid to give and defend equal opportunities because only in such a way will we come to the material truth, only in such a way we will allow no one to be convicted, but also the fear that no one to blame will withdraw the hand of justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13323	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13324	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This Proposal for a Code of Criminal Procedure is essentially a long-prepared procedural rule in the power of criminal procedural law which, in a truly professional, comprehensive and comprehensive manner, provides answers to those questions which we have, in the present criminal and legal practice, referred to as unsatisfactory solutions or as solutions that need to be corrected in another way, and solutions relating to the next set or next set of issues, mean, first of all, the excessive duration of the criminal proceedings, then ineffective and complex treatment, and then it is not justified by the case itself, and then those issues related to the situation of participants in the criminal proceedings when it does not comply with their procedural roles. Then questions related to victims' rights which we also had the opportunity to hear criticisms are not properly regulated and, of course, the position of the state's attorney or a state lawyer who has no position or has no position that would allow effective prosecution. In this context, the proposal sets out from a truly well-founded position and that partial reforms or partial interventions in this area of criminal law, criminal procedural legislation or attempt to remove critical points, and without hitting on root changes, they cannot give responsible and asked questions or such questions, and thus not contribute to significant improvements. It should also be pointed out that this proposal, in the very approach to developing the rules of criminal proceedings, is consistently discussing accepted principles that we have had to hear about, in the previous discussions, so that the principles adopted are governed by criminal proceedings, but these principles do indeed have their own foothold in both international conventions and recommendations, hence concrete recommendations from the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers and also the views of the European Court of Human Rights. In this respect, and not only at the principle level, emphasis should be placed on solutions that go towards simplifying criminal proceedings or justice, better setting priorities in the conduct of criminal policy. This proposal extends the scope of the reduced criminal procedure, in particular the new provisions on the opportunity of prosecution. Then there are provisions on the position of the victim, the extension of the area of direct charge, the decision of the court on the actions of the authority leading the investigation and the extension of the possibility of agreeing through the admission of guilt and the substantial simplification of the publication of the verdict. However, the largest, most large and key newspapers in this bill refer to the previous procedure. A centuries-old tradition of Croatian criminal law is being interrupted, no more an investigative judge, a judicial investigation is being suspended. Therefore, those solutions have been accepted to contradict the proceedings which are more appropriate in their structure for the defendant to oppose the prosecutor, not the court or the investigating judge, while for possible violations of the rights and freedom of the defendants to be decided by the court. The state's attorney becomes the subject in charge of the investigation. The state's attorney takes over the rights and duties of collecting evidence for the indictment. I think it is very important to stress the following, so the court no longer investigates in the previous proceedings. During the criminal proceedings, he is a neutral entity that balances between the opposing parties, the State's attorney and the defendant and regulates their relations, as appropriate, with particular regard to the violation of the rights and freedom of the defendants. Therefore, the evidence-providing initiative is becoming solely party. On the one hand, the court ceases to be the opponent of the defendant, the opponent under the allegations, of course, has since the start of the proceedings been a neutral arbitration between the two sides, the state's attorney and the defendant, and, on the other hand, this new procedural position of the parties puts in the process a significantly different and more complex task both before the state's attorney and the defendant. It is quite logical that the order of the new state's attorney's investigation has made significant changes, most or most important, to the following. The investigation is conducted by the state's attorney, but also a familiar condition for the investigation of what we say, that's a professional term, the basics of doubt have been reduced. Doubts no longer need to be established, so verifiable is already sufficient and a lower degree in this sense of probability. However, the conduct of an investigation by a state attorney does not give him the right to act in the right of the suspect's freedom because such actions are always decided by the court, only exceptionally, and these exceptions are precisely worked out and laid down in the law itself, the state's attorney may do so, but these proceedings, or actions, are subject to the assessment of the court and those assessments are linked or must be made within very short deadlines that are also prescribed by law. In the opening part, we have already had the opportunity to hear news concerning the Institute of Investigators as a new subject of the Croatian criminal proceedings, so the person authorised under the law to take actions under the authority of a state attorney and, of course, the judge of the investigation in this regard also as the law has been developed, the new subject of the Croatian criminal proceedings, he decides on procedures of freedom and the rights of citizens, and implements the evidence hearing in the law of the envisaged cases. To support those legal solutions that are re-determining or developing very important criminal procedural law institutes, which refer to detention as it has been resolved so far, how this proposal will address the law in relation to the evidence hearing, the investigative prison and other institutes provided for in this proposal. After all, this really is a very important newspaper. When this law comes into force, it may well be said, nothing more or much more, or much more, in the criminal proceedings, will be the same as before, and all those who are thinking and speaking and discussing, that really institutions should be strengthened in every sense, those particularly institutions that will in particular implement this law, therefore state attorneys, but also other institutions should be strengthened and prepared in every way that they can properly implement the provisions of this law, absolutely agree with such considerations and there is absolutely no reason in this respect to apply this law in the final and not agree because such proposed amendments and complement these proposed institutes are truly quality and go towards one modern solution within the scope of the Criminal Procedure Act. Accordingly, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13325	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13326	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I expected that the proposal for this law would bring together the debate and my proposal to amend and supplement, i.e. the addition of the Criminal Procedure Act, but probably not because the Government wrote in its opinion on my proposal for the law that it would consider when writing its new proposal for the Criminal Procedure Act, but this is more appropriate to me, because I can speak twice and explain why I proposed only two brief additions to the existing law which, unfortunately, in the bill submitted by the Government to the Croatian Parliament, were not respected. But since I have proposed only two short additions to the existing law, which unfortunately in the draft law submitted by the Government to the Croatian Parliament, are not respected. But since this is the first reading, there is still time and if there is any good will, the promoters can seriously consider accepting my proposals, and I think it is in the area of Article 85 and Article 225 of this proposal that the Government has submitted. Namely... Yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] If the law is withdrawn, this must be accepted, I agree with my colleague Tomljanovic. Namely, the first provision, therefore, is Article 81 to 88, but I think it is best to talk about article 85 that regulates the matter of the record when searching the apartment, business premises or facilities used by a person suspected of committing a crime. I believe that you know what it looks like, when we say the police on a court order, and based on some application, they come in search of the apartment and they're looking for a particular case or document, or a thing. And after the search, or first, at least two neighbors have to wake up as a witness, show a warrant, perform a search and after two, three attempts and a thorough examination and the most conscientious police inspectors don't find what they're looking for. So there's no such thing as those items that are on the warrant. If the police find these items or things, the person whose apartment has been searched gets confirmation of the confiscation of these items. In that certificate it must be clearly written what has been taken away. Describe, write. But if she doesn't find these things she's come looking for, the citizen has no right to a record he has to sign. So, the record of the search is signed by witnesses, at least two, by a police officer and by a person whose apartment has been searched. But that record doesn't have to be given to a person who's suspected of owning something they're looking for. And in practice, the police don't give a record. I can prove it to you in one particular case and I proved it to the minister through the parliamentary question, delivering complete documentation, where the person, the citizen of the Republic of Croatia, who happens to be a professional and a journalist's profession, was searched for gold, gold jewels that were not found. However, he was unable to obtain the search log not only then, that night when the search was carried out, nor later. And he was with the judge who issued the warrant, who instructed him to report to the state's attorney's office. The state's attorney's office told him there's no record here, because they didn't run any investigations, so let's go to the police. And the police told him they don't give the records to the citizens. I will wait until my colleague Markovanovic resolves his emergency case, and then continue to let the government's representatives hear. So police don't give records to citizens whose apartment or business space is above them. Why? Why wouldn't a citizen have the right to receive the record he signed, which was drawn up on the spot. I understand all the fears and dangers and anti-terrorism and all that expensive, but if what was sought was not found, was the problem of giving the citizen the record and finding that by order of the court, on that day and that day, there and there, it was not found and given to the stranger, the citizen. As proof that the search has been carried out and as evidence that the items have not been found or the things that have been sought. Why not protect the citizen from possible abuses of any party? Later on, different interpretations. Because when things aren't found they don't run and they don't go on, because to find them, that file is part of the indictment. But there are no more charges here. That document is gone, except for the police. Apparently no one. Because then he doesn't deliver it to the judge, just the report that things haven't been found. So, I suggest that article 85 goes to a provision that, after the search, if nothing is found, the citizen has the right to receive a search record signed by the point. The second case, too, applies, and in my view, it is the area of Article 225 to reject criminal charges. In fact, and this is a particular case, I will not name a person, but in the last term he was a parliamentary representative and mayor of a city and a member of the HDZ, who was charged with committing a criminal offence. The state's attorney's office ordered police criminal processing, which after processing found that there were no elements of the initiation of the criminal proceedings and informed the State's Attorney's Office and rejected the criminal application. However, by asking both the state attorney and the justice minister, the rejection of criminal charges, was anonymous or by a known person was a document that the State's Attorney's Office did not provide to the person who was subject to criminal treatment because it was not a party to the proceedings. That's the explanation. Therefore, the person subject to criminal treatment in terms of proof or rejection of criminal charges for the conduct of a criminal offence is not a party to the proceedings. And for the absurdd to be further, the State Attorney's Office delivers a rejection to the applicant, but the person against whom the application has been filed, over whom criminal processing has been carried out and no elements of the criminal offence have been found, has no right to rule on the rejection of criminal charges. Why? Why would a Croatian national not have the right to refuse a criminal application from the state's attorney's office, which was given a criminal application, which was legally carried out by the authorities and the state's attorney would not have given the same citizen a copy of the resolution on the rejection of the criminal application. What's the problem? Fear of being discovered by the defendant of criminal charges. What kind of reconnaissances were done, for which crime was charged? So the minimum courtesy of the state to its citizen must be that when a citizen is innocent, falsely accused, falsely accused, and when the national competent authority finds out that he has not committed a criminal offence to him, to give him paper and to tell him that we have committed criminal processing, there's no evidence that you've done anything, here's your paper. Or all two, three months can be the same application from different people against the same person for the same crime and especially before election campaigns, you know how it's done. So all I'm asking is that Article 225 rejects the criminal application by the State's attorney's office to be delivered to a citizen against whom the criminal application has been rejected. Especially since the police have been processing criminally, and I remind you that this fact is recorded in the police file, the citizen's file. So, after the police are ordered by the State Attorney's Office to carry out criminal processing, they record it in the citizen's file, but after it has been found that no elements of the crime have been found and that the application has been rejected, it is no longer noted, only the finding of a criminal offence under suspicion of committing a crime so long as it is alive and it is not deleted under official duty. A person convicted of a criminal offence after the expiry of a certain period depending on the type of criminal offence is deleted from his records but an innocent citizen who has not committed a criminal offence in his record remains the very fact that a criminal offence has been committed against him. Does that make sense, please? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13327	Thank you. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13328	I think that my colleague Lesar is absolutely right and this is an old-fashioned solution that has been withdrawn since 45 years ago that a man who's been registered with a person who's been over who knows what kind of interrogations and neighbors are, in general, one criminal processing has no idea that it's been processed but is still being notified. So this is a legal solution that needs to be changed in order to protect these persons, but not only for the protection of these persons, because we always do, and this rejection solution is delivered only to the applicant in order to eventually take private persecution and that person has no idea and falsely reported. Therefore, it should first of all be informed that it could exercise its right and file criminal charges for false reporting. Please, when in the last 15 years someone has been responsible for false reporting and we've had as many false reports as we've had and the real ones that haven't been processed, then in the people everything is relativized and what isn't and what isn't, and it has somehow equal weight in the public. But it's also good for the sake of gaining the trust of our institutions that no one in the state can joke with institutions if the neighbors are already kidding each other with jumps and jumps. But falsely report someone, cause the cost of the state because it automatically drives its machinery, so it costs no one at all anything. So that's one irregularity that no system knows. Here we have a whole series of provisions that protect the victim, we have here and the laws that we're making, special laws that we want to protect the victim of particularly criminal acts. I think they're serious things, and they used to be an exception because sometimes ex-Oco was haunted by these things. Today, they are to be persecuted for their official duty, but somehow, let us be realistic and look into the truth. Therefore, let us give the possibility to a person who has been falsely reported to encourage official authorities to prosecute for false reporting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13329	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13330	Comrade Ingrid, you're absolutely right. There's an even scarier dimension to it. When the applicant of that criminal report, the fact that the press releases against Dragutin Lesar has been filed, it is two, three days' cover, but the fact that the criminal application has been rejected either you or any other citizen can't give it because he doesn't know. He doesn't know that criminal charges have been dropped because he won't get any solution but that's not even for the media anymore. How many citizens of this country have been in such a situation that they have been publicly exposed for filing criminal charges that the State's Attorney's office later rejected because they were without any foundation. What satisfaction or protection these citizens have ever received from anyone and what they could have done when they have no documents or evidence that, after criminal processing, criminal charges have been rejected. I'm asking how it came about, he says it's a good practice of the state's attorney's office that's become legal because it doesn't say anywhere that they have to deliver a rejection solution to the citizen so it takes such a practice not to be delivered. So if we have one such practice that is negative, which can be misused and misused, or indeed the problem of those three sentences is written in law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13331	Thank you. We're moving on with an individual discussion. The first is the distinguished representative Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13332	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. So here's the practice of criminal proceedings over the past period has proved unsatisfactory. So here we are today, and we have this new Code of Criminal Procedure on our desks. The proposal for a new CAP differs from the current CAP. For example, it has three parts and the proposal four, the proposal sets out provisions in a regular and shortened procedure and in the current CAP it is arranged in one part as the course of the procedure. Furthermore, the proposal proposes a key paper in the previous procedure, a judicial investigation is lifted and the defendant opposes the prosecutor rather than the court in a conflicting procedure. In the previous procedure, the provisions are classified as regular proceedings in criminal prosecution, investigation, evidence and prosecution. The specific significance of the proposal of the CAP is the explicit introduction of the victim among the participants in the criminal proceedings. This is a novelty in the Croatian criminal procedure and consists of the separation of the right of the victim from the entire right which the person has as a damage. As regards the jurisdiction of the courts in the proposal, it is proposed that the issue of the actual and functional jurisdiction of the courts be governed by a special regulation while local jurisdiction, merger and separation of proceedings and the transfer of the jurisdiction of the consequences of the non-compliance and conflict of jurisdiction are governed by the relevant provisions of the current CAP. The proposal by the CAP makes the state lawyer subject to investigation into the position of a state lawyer in a significant number of European countries, and its rights and duties are governed by the standards contained in a number of European sources. Furthermore, the proposal systematically sets out the catalogue of the defendant's rights in criminal proceedings and detailed arrangements are made for the professional defence of the defendants. A significant newspaper was also proposed in the measures to ensure the presence of the defendants. Delivery of decisions, submissions and memos has been arranged in a way that introduces a new approach to delivery to witnesses and witches so that it is carried out by parties. If she is a failure, that task shall be taken over by the Registrar of the Court. As a new criminal law entity, an investigator shall be introduced as a person authorised to take actions under the orders of a State Attorney. However, these entities and the judge of the investigation which decides on the whole of the complex and mutually conditional relationships of the participants in the proceedings. In the case of evidence operations, the search shall be systematically arranged. The active involvement of the defendants is proposed and an experiment is introduced as a special type of eyewitness and proof is proposed in the video of the new evidence action. The paper is also that the Judiciary Council is investigating the indictment at a contradictory hearing. The proposal no longer provides for a provision under which the court may provide evidence that the parties have not proposed or abandoned, although it is not explicitly prohibited. Such a provision highlights the party's evidence initiative. The system of exceptional legal medicinal products in the proposal of the CAP leaves an exceptional reduction of penalties. The proposal provides for a degree of entry into force of this law and for its implementation a series of preparations will need to be carried out, for example, from hiring new officials to education, both people in the police, the State's Attorney's Office and judges who will act under the new Criminal Procedure Act. The following is my support for the Proposal of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13333	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13334	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the promoters, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. At the very beginning of the presentation, I would like to point out that we are discussing an extremely important and complete legal proposal for a criminal procedure that I will personally support. The application of the existing Criminal Procedure Act in practice was not satisfactory. It is estimated that the procedures are too long, that the position of the participants is not in line with their procedural roles, that the position of a state attorney does not allow effective persecution, that the real victims are not, that the rights of the victims are not properly arranged. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has set out to adopt the principle of making a new Criminal Procedure Act. The adoption of the principle followed... amending the system of criminal legislation in a large part of European legislation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Working on a new proposal took a long time. It should also be commended and highlighted by the work group's efforts, composed of prominent experts in the area of criminal law, to draw up a proposal on which we have the opportunity to discuss. The working group evaluated the experience of European countries, international conventions, recommendations from the Committee, Council of Europe Ministers, views of the European Court of Human Rights and Recommendations. The proposal sets out provisions in the regular and shortened procedure and aims to achieve transparency of arrangements with the new schedule. The basic newspaper of the review consists of the following: the general provisions of particular meaning have a provision governing the position of the victim of the crime, the rights of the victim are set out in the whole of the right which the person has as a damage. The state's attorney is the subject who's leading the investigation. The attorney general takes over the rights and duties of collecting evidence for the indictment as it is in most European states. The role of a state attorney necessarily changes the relationship between the police and the state's attorney. In Chapter 6, in the title itself, the main subject of the criminal proceedings is the defendant. The defendant's rights are regulated in criminal proceedings. The proposal detailedly regulates the right to formal professional defence. Cases in which the defendant must have a lawyer are prescribed. It is precisely regulated to monitor the communication of the defendants and defenders aimed at the uninterrupted conduct of the proceedings and supervision of the nature of the criminal offence. Significant newspapers are proposed in the measures to ensure the presence of the defendants in the event of reasonable suspicion of committing a criminal offence. Because of the incursion of human rights, these measures are of particular importance. The police are authorized to arrest a person suspected of committing a crime. The arrester is handed over to a particularly authorised police officer, a new entity in the structure of the insurance measures, the presence of the defendants to the prison supervisor. The detention supervisor shall be responsible for the legality of the arrest and regularity of dealing with a person deprived of liberty while the person is not in prison for investigation. It's important news that custody is ordered by a state's attorney and that a court of law is ruled on by a court of law. The proposal is proposed in a different way which should ensure that delivery is speeded up. We know how important delivery is for the efficient handling of courts. This proposal introduces a new approach to delivery. The parties are primarily involved in the delivery of witnesses and warlocks. If the party fails to make the delivery, it will be carried out by the Registrar of the Court. The proposed way of delivery is directed by the judge at the very time of the trial, and the deprivement of the care of the technical elements of the proceedings. Provisions on criminal prosecution shall be governed by the rights and duties of a state attorney as a state body for criminal offences to be prosecuted under official duty in a phase preceding the criminal proceedings. Special arrangements shall be made for the handling of criminal charges. The key importance of the proposal is a state-of-the-art investigation. It is mandatory for long-term prison crimes and can also be carried out against an unknown perpetrator. The suspicion doesn't have to be established, verifiable. A lower degree of probability is sufficient as to the basis of doubt. The investigation is being conducted by the state's attorney. He's taking evidence actions alone or a warrant to entrust the conduct of an investigator's action. The investigator is a new subject of criminal proceedings, a person authorised under a special regulation to take actions under the orders of a State lawyer. The judge of the investigation is also a new entity in criminal proceedings. He decides on the whole of complex and mutually conditional relations. It decides on procedures in the freedoms and rights of citizens. The judge of the investigation shall carry out a evidence hearing aimed at the preliminary contradictory collection of evidence to be used in the debate. The proposal prescribes new evidence actions such as evidence by recording, proof of correctness, electronic evidence and specific evidence. Systemically edits the search, interrogations of the defendants. It's the only evidence store to be carried out actively. Examining the defendant is a condition for bringing charges. A significant newspaper is the introduction of partial immunity of witnesses if it is in the interest of criminal proceedings. As a special type of eyewitness, an experiment is being introduced. The evidence of the video that is the new explicitly envisaged evidence store, the new explicitly envisaged type of evidence is also electronic evidence. As a result, many crimes are committed by means of an electronic device, i.e. in the electronic data area. A number of newspapers are being proposed on the charge. At the time of the indictment, the court first questioned the indictment. The court has the right and the duty to critically assess the evidence collected. The new body shall allow the court to examine the indictment, the parties to agree on guilt and sanctions, giving it the possibility to end the proceedings by a verdict on the basis of an agreement of the parties before and outside the debate. The subject matter of the indictment is divided into 8 departments, and the case before the indictment is a new extremely important stage of conduct in which both parties can contradict the proven basis of the indictment. An important action is to draw up a divorce file that directly affects the preparation and the course of the debate. With regard to the debate, the proposal provides for important newspapers. Evidence is suggested and carried out by the parties first and foremost by the prosecutor. There are no further provisions on the Inquisition, the maximum according to which the Court may provide evidence that has not been proposed by the parties and has not given up its implementation, although this is not explicitly prohibited. In this way, the party's evidence initiative has been highlighted... The procedure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It requires increased activity, primarily by a state's attorney. The paper on exceptional legal medicines is proposed, leaving out the legal remedy for the extraordinary mitigation of penalties. Because of the scope of the proposed changes, I focused my debate on the most significant newspapers that have significantly changed the criminal procedure so far, they propose different definitions and obligations of the criminal proceedings mainly to state attorneys. The intensity of this proposal is to make criminal proceedings more effective, to resolve the powers and powers of the criminal proceedings body in order to avoid duplication of transactions which, in my opinion, has been properly resolved by the proposed law. I believe that the extent of the changes in criminal proceedings will require an important role to be devoted to the education of the participants in the proceedings. On the basis of this, I support the proposal for a law on criminal proceedings in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13335	Thank you. And one notice. On Friday, the President of the Parliament announced in the session's conclusion that we will be working a little longer this week, so tonight we are about to predict by 9:00 p.m. We continue with individual debates. Dear Representative Ivo Josipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13336	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. The law on criminal proceedings is also called a small constitution because it applies to fundamental human rights and also to the exercise of the rights of victims of those who are damaged by criminal acts. That's why I have to admit that I'm sorry that at least she's doing the symbolism today is not with us, Madam Minister, because I think the importance of this law justifies it. When it comes to this law, when we look at it as a whole, it really brings important reform news. First of all, news is brought about the suspension of the judicial investigation. When we look at this concept, then we must say that it is a great novelty in our criminal proceedings and the legal system in general and that is why expectations and fears are great. We know that the law has been preparing for a long time, that for a time, it's been a surprise to me for information I've had and declared official secret. Why? I don't know, that it's now within a relatively short period and probably the reason why, by supporting the law in its concept and the desire to change it, I have to say that there are a lot of dilemmas and shortcomings that I think should be considered in the further procedure. If we look at the structure, the new structure of the criminal procedure, then we'll see that what one would expect didn't happen. So if the concept was changed then the whole process had to be adapted to new mechanisms. The main mechanism is this very acoustic, so the new prosecutor's investigation, and that's not enough to change the investigation, but they say in the theater if in the first act he showed up on stage a gun then in the third act he must fire. Here, the gun does not fire in the third act, and I would like to say that not all the consequences of what the structural change of the CAP should actually bring. What's this about? The main structural change in the CAP is the view that the criminal proceedings are conducted in the first stage of the investigation on other learning criteria than before. We've so far had an investigation based on reasonable doubt. So on a relatively high standard of belief that the defendant committed a crime. Today we have it, at least according to this proposal on the grounds of doubt. So, I can't outvote my colleague Markovanovic, what can I do? Therefore, on the grounds of doubt and in doing so, it is necessary to know that the mechanisms and restrictions of human rights that we had previously had in the investigation were and were possible to justify them precisely because of such a high standard of doubt which assumes that the likelihood of conviction is assuming that the facts which have been established are greater than acquittal. We don't have today, so we've lowered the standard of investigation, and on the other hand we've left mechanisms that limit human rights both in kind and in duration as if nothing had happened, as if we hadn't changed the structure of the procedure. I would even say that some things are sharpened and that there will certainly be a question of protection of human rights, especially when we look, for example, at the precautionary measures before the investigation is initiated, and that you do not have a mechanism to limit the duration of such measures before the investigation begins. If we look at the other side of this intensities to make the process effective then we will notice quite easily that some simple, technical procedures that other legal systems know are not applied here and that we have continued to apply, I will give a few examples, mechanisms that have been used so far to delay the proceedings, and there are no significant shifts made, not enough for me to deliver, liberalisation of the delivery regime, not an effective system of decision-making on the requirements of exemption, for example in a breaking law, if it is comparable, and that is, there is a much better mechanism envisaged which does not allow for the manipulation of permanent requirements for exemption or, for example, for example, I could specify some other things, for example, deciding on some interlocutive issues and making decisions on complaints, so whether the appeal is allowed and who decides. What I think is, of course, I always point out that I know how hard it is to prepare such a law, system system law, and, of course, with the gratitude of colleagues who have worked, here I also point out some well-intentioned remarks. One might refer to technique. When you look at it, it stood out, now the old man had 5 parts, this one has 3, 7 or 5, now I don't know how it was pointed out, but it doesn't matter. When you visually look at the old and new law, they're almost the same. What does that mean? That someone took it and who was working took it from the computer law and filled out the new content in the old form. This may be very practical, but especially when changing the concept carries certain risks, so we have a large number of provisions that have not been implemented logically to the end or which do not have the consequences they should have, given that some new elements are embedded in this kind of older structure. For example, the very important thing is that for the first time in our legal system, there is a theory of excessive interest in valorising illegal evidence, of course serious criminal offences, although it is illegal evidence, it can be used under certain conditions. But for such a delicate thing, no process mechanism is foreseen. Therefore, it is envisaged that such evidence should be singled out, even the council that decides on the indictment is obliged to segregate it, and in the main debate, if the need for the use of such evidence is shown, it is not intended for the mechanism to be re-entered into the case file. There are also other illogicalities, such as house arrest or guarantee, possible use of these institutions, but not for item 5, so when the defendant obviously avoids coming to the main debate, I see no reason why this would not be so, and it is possible in the danger of escape, so there is no specific logic. In the same way, in determining the prison of investigation, it is assumed that, literally, the provision will be brought in, therefore, starting with the assumption that he has already been deprived of his freedom and that he is in custody or that he should be deprived of his freedom. It also unnecessaryly foresees the possibility of bringing in, for example, forced bringing in, when police are delivering. There's one provision that allows the police to send someone to the defendant in writing to bring him to the police station. Why? If she found it, why don't you hand it to him in writing. So here, I know the time is too short and this kind of debate in the Assembly is certainly not the place where these professional details are discussed. I would point out just for the end if these were examples, I could say this for days, there are a lot of provisions that should be reviewed and corrected. I would point out that if we look at the result, the fact that the convictions have 87% is a successful prosecutor we would say that no changes in the CAP need to be made. What's the problem? The problem is at the stage of discovery, especially with economic crime, organised crime, there should be no illusion that without a change in approach, if we are to say in general in political will, the law itself can bring something in itself if there is no change. So it's not the main problem of the ineffectiveness of the general judiciary in the main debate, but somewhere before and about it, of course, the government should take care of it. Finally, it's a really important law, I think the Ministry, or the Government as a Proposer, will make a big mistake if the second reading is understood, as we often have routinely here, so that some small things change and that at the 9th month there somewhere around 15, 16 when we get the text in the second reading. The problem is complex, the profession probably still has a lot to say and my recommendation is, I will support the law in the first reading that until the second reading not one, but several serious expert discussions are conducted according to the text of the law to avoid the situation to be found all together on the day of the law's entry into force... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13337	Thank you. I shall inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure expired time to report for 10 minutes, at 17 hours and 28 minutes. And as the last to sign up for 10 minutes, distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13338	Dear Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. In my personal debate, I will focus only on one aspect that seems very important to me in our common fight against corruption. And in this strategy in the fight against corruption, which later incorporates the action plan, a new Criminal Procedure Act was also mentioned. Not only the one we have so far, but also the new bill of law, and we boast in front of Europe how, here we will pass a new law on criminal proceedings that will contribute to the fight against corruption. But is that how it should be fixed until the next reading that this fight is truly effective, and it does not take much. All I have to do is drop something that's now gone in, and I don't know how. But something that is presented may seem pretentious to you to state that from this proposal of criminal proceedings other than that we will also have an inefficient fight against corruption if we do not remove such a lack and read something that may no longer be popular, but indeed there is no other name but that it is thus characterized by the class character of the Criminal Procedure Act. How? Our public will agree that proceedings against the poor when something he does is over very quickly. I'm not familiar with it, not even from personal practice, but I don't know from my colleagues who have dealt with this business that any burglar in the trade has remained unknown. Whoever breaks into the bank and the rest of them, they're certainly not individuals, they're all criminal organizations, and they're usually unknown. So justice when it's exhausted and the state deals with an individual if it's poor and powerless, it's effective, but when it's at risk and when some others need to answer, so the privileged or the rich then the simple system doesn't work. And why isn't it working? Well, he doesn't often work on his own, but often because we try to write laws like that. So here I am going to read the provision of Article 206, which explicitly states that all state bodies and state bodies and individuals, and at their own institutions and other and financial institutions will give all the information to the state's attorney so that he can collect evidence. Is that something controversial? It's not. Because it hasn't been too controversial before. But now we have something that we've never had before, which first appeared in the Banks Act and this Banks Act has been figurein' out for many years, for the past few years as a law that is outside the Criminal Procedure Act, which is an organic law for which we need to gather 77 votes here. But the banks and financial powers managed not only to enter the banking secret into the Banks Act but also to embezzle it in the Criminal Procedure Act, and that is inadmissible. Therefore, the provision of Article 206 of its paragraph 5 states that at the request of the State Attorney and the Police and the Ministry, the institutions will be provided with the requested information other than banks, or other than those representing a law-protected secret, i.e. A banking secret. Then how are we going to fight and what are we going to fight? And you see on the other hand when it comes to an individual who doesn't have a safe in the bank, which the law says about him. Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 251 March 2008 on the protection of So he'll literally turn his insides to find some evidence. And what evidence can he have? Half a gram of what small drugs or something. What can he have in his cavity? But it says the provision of Article 251 is very momentous, very pedantic and precise, that this person and such a suspect, or a person who is presumed to have hidden traces of committing a crime, will be searched. It will enter its body cavity, separate itself from the body of body organ replacement or if doubt arises, etc. etc. In any case, there will be no mercy and such a man cannot declare that such body parts are secret to him. There's no intimacy, no secrets. The state apparatus, therefore with medical help or not, will enter all its body cavityes and search for evidence, but for the powerful banks and safes remain untouchable. And in the strategy you wrote that you would relativize the banking secret, and now this law does not at all figure as a law that needs to be contributed, and it is very important to contribute to the fight against corruption and organised crime. But we're going to look at this kind of thing, and it doesn't take a lot of effort to get rid of it and what my colleague Josipovic was saying, we can really do it with a common force, I don't see any exception that we don't pass one quality law the way we were and decided to be quick and efficient, to remove these serious obstacles, so we don't have a new criminal procedure at first sight, it really works out as "Mercedes" but with this kind of lack of engine "fice". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13339	Thank you. And distinguished representative Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic, five minutes on behalf of the SDP club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13340	Here, Mr. President, very briefly. So, the SDP club...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13341	Excuse me, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13342	Well, that's what I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13343	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13344	No, you just wanted to hear that president, I said me and the vice president a little quieter.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13345	You said it wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13346	It's good. The SDP Club, I would like to point out once again, that its statement and its support for the final bill when it comes to order will depend precisely on these remarks that we have highlighted, which seem essential to us. First of all, I will repeat once again that we are asking that the investigating judge, or judge, not evaluate the evidence, should not have the right to do so. That the relationship between the state's attorney's office and the police is properly arranged. Yes, regular forces, i.e. The police are responding to the state's attorney's office in that part of the binding order he is referring to them and that, by the end of the reading, it is certainly necessary to pass so much-needed law on police powers. He's practically this law on criminal proceedings is unusable without the law on police powers. Equally, it will be necessary to remove those inquisitor powers that remain in the judge, so at the main debate and also here, relativate the banking secret to the ultimate possibilities that the fight against organised crime and corruption would be as effective as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13347	Thank you. Does he want a representative? Yeah. Dear Tatjana Vučetic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13348	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to thank the esteemed representatives for the proposals and remarks they have raised in the debate. All comments and suggestions the working group will consider and prepare a proposal for a second reading, respecting the nature and attitude of the profession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13349	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13350	We move to the Proposed Code on Criminal Procedure, also first reading, P.Z. No. 116. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the following conclusions. First, the Proposed Code on Criminal Procedure is adopted. Secondly, all comments, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get on with it. Let's vote. The result? The proposal for a conclusion was accepted by the majority of votes with 80 votes for, 26 abstentions and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13351	We'll vote when the conditions are met. We're moving to the 8th point of the agenda. - Final proposal of the Security Checks Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 66 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Ivan Damjanovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13352	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs of the Parliament. Here the matter of security checks is regulated by a number of legal and sublegal regulations, resulting in a conclusion on the lack of uniformity of this matter and problems in interpreting the same provisions in practice. The final proposal of the Security Verification Act proposes a full and uniform legal regulation of the implementation of security checks to be checked by candidates for certain posts, business or status rights by the possible existence of security obstacles in the area of national security, i.e. data indicating the existence of a risk of misuse of those positions to national security. The integrity and uniqueness of the arrangements of this substance shall include, in particular, the types and degrees of security verification in view of their purpose and degree of importance, procedures and methods of carrying out the security verification. The questions which are the subject of verification or security questionnaires, the competent authorities for carrying out security checks, the volunteering of candidates or the freedom of consent to carry out a security check shall be confirmed by written consent as well as by security obstacles. The final proposal for the Security Verification Act contains certain differences in relation to the proposal for a Security Verification Act, which has been included on the basis of the observations made by the parliamentary representatives in the first reading. So, for example. I'll explain some of them. A new paragraph 2 is inserted in Article 4 which reads: "How many assessments of the existence of safety barriers depend exclusively on the health condition of the verified person, the applicant may request the expert opinion of the competent medical institution." In this way, the decision on the existence of safety barriers resulting from the security verification of observed health indications shall be placed in the jurisdiction of the measuring health institution and topics shall avoid the possibility of error in the conclusion or possible intentional abuse of the security verification institute. In Article 13(1), the tenth provision, which reads "for foreigners who will stay or stay in the Republic of Croatia and for persons who are admitted to Croatian citizenship", is amended and reads "for foreigners when staying or receiving into Croatian citizenship". In this way, the possibility of security checks on foreign nationals or stateless persons is more precisely determined, i.e. it is strictly reduced to cases where it is decided on the approval of their entry or stay in the Republic of Croatia, or when it is decided on the need for Croatian citizenship. The third amendment is also in Article 25(5), which reads as follows: "Polygraphic examination can only refer to references from questionnaires" and is complemented by additional content, and now it reads: "Polygraphic examination can only refer to references from questionnaires and cannot serve as a basis for making a final decision on security obstacles." The above-mentioned sentence states that the results of the polygraph result cannot be the basis for the decision-making of safety barriers, but only as a basis for the reduction of the course of the security verification and the application of other procedures prescribed by law according to the polygraph of the indications recognised. In the accompanying material, they also give an overview of the opinions in relation to the bill's proposal and the reasons why some of these opinions are not accepted, but in order to respect the time of respected parliamentary representatives and MPs, I would not now particularly interpret them. We heard that the final bill went through a series of boards of parliaments, here and now it's finally here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13353	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. They're clubs first. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Tomislav Culjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13354	Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen of the State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. The proposed law proposes to fully regulate the implementation of security checks, which check the possible existence of security obstacles in the area of national security for candidates for certain duties and jobs. The matter of security checks has so far been regulated by a number of legal and sublegal regulations, which have caused different interpretations and different application in practice. This legislative proposal uniquely covers some of the important segments affecting national security issues. In the first order, the types and degrees of security verification shall be determined in view of the purpose and degree of importance. Methods of carrying out a security check shall be established, safety questionnaires shall be prescribed, competent authorities shall be designated to carry out security checks, but shall also be able to carry out a security check with written approval of candidates. The proposed law defines security obstacles depending on the type of security verification. Types of security checks are a security check for access to classified data, a thorough security check and a security check to protect the security of protected persons and objects. Security checks shall be carried out on the first, second and third-degree security checks. Depending on the need for access to classified data of certain degrees of secrecy from a very secret, secret and confidential nature, security checks of the first, second or third degree will be carried out. Articles 32, 33, 34 are amended as follows: Articles 35 to 41 have detailed information on the verification carried out. The adoption of this law will fully comply with NATO and Euro standards, a whole of the matter in the area of national security, making the Republic of Croatia meet another commitment to access to Euro-Atlantic integration. Not to be too long, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the adoption of this law, and this legislative proposal holds a good solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13355	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club, I give my word to Mr. Stan Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13356	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. At the beginning of our debate, I would like to say that the Croatian Peasant Party supports the text of the bill in question, because in fact, in addition to harmonising Croatian legislation with the acquiss of the European Union and NATO, existing solutions are also qualitatively improved at national level, and whose shortcomings have been seen during the implementation of so far through various legislative and sublegal regulations, which regulate the matter of security checks. In this way, making a new step creates preconditions for the overall and uniform regulatory arrangement of the process of carrying out the candidate's security verification for certain duties, jobs, jobs and status rights with the aim of verifying the possible existence of security obstacles in the area of national security. In our debate, we would not refer to the proposed solutions to certain specific issues and laws, such as types of security checks, degrees and procedure of their implementation, renewal and addition of security checks and others, but rather to what we generally consider to be good solutions, but also some of the details that we consider open issues or questionable in this law, or some of the details that enter into the normative area of data secrecy, which we consider to be well arranged. This law fully and uniformly regulates the matter currently in the legal system of the Republic of Croatia, prescribed by a number of legal and sub-legislative regulations which have been met in the past by partial interests in different periods and areas of the state administration in such a way as to establish a security check as one of the instruments of preventive protection of those relevant from the point of view of national security. The approach proposed by the law will facilitate the implementation of the tasks of their department, which determine the existence of security barriers for natural and legal persons, for the purpose of harmonising them with the notional category apparatus on the issue of security checks, as well as extending the circle of applicants for whom security checks will be carried out and as indicated in the first parliamentary debate on this matter. A presumption has also been created to prevent uncontrollable swelling or to reduce the misuse of data to be collected in the security verification process. Following this, we believe that the draft law is written in order to highlight greater transparency and efficiency in the implementation of certain specific activities by the competent authorities as well as their cooperation with international partners when the issue of security certificates is prescribed by international contracts. In addition, international measures and standards are implemented in the Croatian legal order in order to protect the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and its national security through this type of preventive measure. Some details that we think might be possible to complete or fix are asked what will happen to those who do not receive a security certificate. According to our knowledge in some NATO Member States, security certificates have not been received from 5 to 20% of the workers found in certain security positions in or outside the defence system of certain countries. Also, by studying the content of the regulations governing the matter of data secrecy and security checks in some NATO member states, it is evident that the focus of their checks was on the following issues. Double citizenship, including current and former, is always a question of loyalty in a given crisis or certain sensitive moment, then a question of dependence on alcohol, drugs, cubes or other details as well as a question of credit responsibility. In other words, the focus is on dealing with those issues in whose background may be potential blackmails or pressures. We hope our institutions take care of these issues when they give someone a security clearance certificate. In addition, the countries that are members of NATO in the provisions of the Data Protection Act have defined which areas or segments of national security are safeguarding that national security is a very broad notion that it would not, when interpreting the provisions of the law, any abuses, or that they would be reduced to the least possible measure. Analyzing this issue, a solution to the Law on the secrecy of one of our neighbouring countries, which has already been a member of NATO for several years, and which has also harmonised the rules on the same matter as NATO is asking for it, but still something different from what was regulated by us. It regulated the issue of security certificates for state but regional and local officials differently, by noting in the list of persons listed in Article 20 of our law who are obliged to sign only a declaration by the Office of the National Security Council which confirms that they are familiar with the provisions of this Act and other regulations governing the protection of classified data and undertakes to dispose of classified data in accordance with those regulations. It also adds to officials at regional or regional level. This was clearly stated in the same category by state-level persons such as central bank governors or their deputies or vice-governments. In other words, in NATO Member States, all officials are exempt from the procedures prescribed for issuing a security certificate. Therefore, here are our proposed solutions in this law, and I think it may be possible to further work on the proposed laws in the neighbouring countries that are members of NATO. We hope that here our debate will be helpful to the legislator but also to all of us so that we don't get in a situation where we don't happen to experience any unwanted situations again. The Croatian Peasant Party Club will also support the proposal for this security checks law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13357	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP club, I give my word to Honorary Representative Ranko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13358	Dear Mr. Vice President, the honorable representatives of the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs. I will take advantage of this opportunity since you didn't get this paper from the board and there we discussed and my discussion was actually on the trail of SDP's views regarding the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security itself, given that we are the parent board and although the debate was concluded you weren't able to see these papers. What is the most important and fundamental remark that we have in the proposal for a safety check law is above all the fact that we all in the previous debate when we first had the bill of law expressed our support in some way to regulate in one place the complete situation regarding security checks and to avoid having to seek those provisions in different laws. It is precisely that it is supported by all clubs and in some way in the debate, given that in this law it is proposed to actually put off the force or by way of effect of this law that only one regulation ceases to apply, all other provisions remain in all these laws. This means a partial solution remains resolved in each of those laws that have been given in the light of this proposal for a Security Verification Act. Secondly, the procedure itself and what we are trying to warn about is that the assessment of the existence of the security barriers defined above all by the Data Securitisation Act is provided by the competent authority requesting a security check. There is a problem since it is not defined which is the competent authority requesting a security check, or who are those who have the right to request a security check from the competent security agency. What is particularly important, the evaluation itself, is their discretionary right of unnamed means possible search engines and they do not depend on the very assessment of the delivered... the opinions of the competent security agency. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This means, regardless of what the security agency will do by respecting all the rules that are either prescribed by this law or by other laws or by a regulation that follows under this law, which means that it will specify exactly what the questionnaire looks like on the basis of which various types of checks are done, only the body is the one who decides whether it will accept such an assessment or not, or whether it actually respects something that should be prescribed and that is a security check. That it does not have to be so demonstrated that the Office of the Council which is defined as the competent and only body that can request security checks on access to classified data in that part is a story of very precise days and we know exactly what procedure it is and we know in which way it is handled. All other information in Article 4 is permitted by non-defining in fact who these competent authorities are that we are actually risking again that anyone who considers himself to be a competent authority may request to carry out a security check and, on the basis of these reports, I am also warning in this article that the results of the security check do not have any effect at all on how they will address the issue of acceptance or non-acceptance of what to the relevant security agency. With the Council, it's a different situation if you know... The confidentiality law will then be noticed that the certificate is issued there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That certificate shall be subject to the right of access to the data and shall be subject to the right to initiate the procedure. It shall be specified exactly how, and before the court may resolve all those questions which are not permitted in any other procedure. That's why I don't think we've solved it again the way we wanted it to, and that means it's generally a matter of security checks. There is also a question that this is precisely arranged around the council and on the other hand, this situation leaves it at large to mention to the competent authorities for which we don't really know who they are. As regards the security obstacles which are the basis for which security checks are being carried out, as defined in Article 3 of that Regulation, it is written in the Privacy Act which they are, but only when it comes to classified data. A completely different matter and freedom to actually define a different security check has been left through a provision in paragraph 2 of that same Article 3 and that is that security obstacles in the implementation of a basic security check and it is actually quite important and defined later by other articles, only the existence of risks or certain opportunities or powers, so that someone can work at harming the national security of the Republic of Croatia's interests may be subject to denial and that there is no later possibility of any repair in the situation of applying the report and establishing safety barriers by the request of the competent authority and the report of the security agency in relation to the abuse of a job or duty. What's important, the very fact that we mentioned actually that consent is the basis of everything, actually brings man into a situation of every one that also belongs to a group of undefined ones. I have to repeat another inaccuracy which is that they are not defined until the end which are the places that must be increased or have to be solved for them by the degree of security checks. I am also in the debate with colleagues who have been in order to correct these solutions in fact suggested that there are regulations that state these leading places that I think it would be very good to fit it into the law and that it would be much more precise to write it in the law, and not that we need to look for which regulation is it, or what are the leading places, which are people who need to pass a certain check exactly per degree? However, what I would like to warn you about in the very beginning of Article 5 of this Law or the proposal is that, in fact, the agreement that a person gives and signs at the time he agrees actually brings him into a very difficult situation if this article 20 remains. Proposal for a safety check law. It is not good to depend on the discretionary assessment of the director of any relevant security intelligence agency and to decide in this situation whether to apply the measures of secret data collection for the purpose of carrying out the first-degree security check. I know that this is precisely a limited number of people to whom it is applied, but I think it should be defined and that the person who signs consent in Article 5 of that questionnaire and the willingness to be subject to a security check must be aware that it also agrees with all the measures prescribed by secret listening data collection to everything else that is defined and what measures. Therefore, this Article 20, given the fact that it is highly affected by both human rights and in everything else, I think it would be much better if it were precisely written at any time, under which conditions and in any case subject to supervision rather than depending on whether or not the Director of the Security Intelligence Agency will apply it to someone. As far as legal persons and everything else is concerned, I think it is much more accurate and I would like to point out that at this point in time and this bill, a much better solution is made to this part of the Council's work which is carried out by the part that is related to access to classified data, and in this sense I suggest to the Proposer that, in that part, I also think that the rest of the law can be improved by very precise guidance. So the question of Article 13 in view of the persons appointed or appointed to be in office, we do not know which, the persons appointed or appointed to the managing civil servants, I think it is really necessary to give more precise explanations. I must also point out that the issue of conversations with another person who has caused quite a lot of controversy in public and very often has been the subject of a situation which, when receiving a first degree security check, is that you are actually in a position to come and talk without your knowledge to neighbors or anyone else assessed by the director of the competent Security Intelligence Agency. It also requires more precise editing or deleting from this detail. I argue that, in all these checks, both the first and the second and the third degrees through all the above-mentioned accurate open sources of records and everything else available to the service can come to anything else necessary to verify the person in the first, second or third degree, which requires coordination with the European Union. If we depend on whether it will actually be the neighbor who decides to talk about whether a civil servant can perform such a duty that we do not risk being at risk of potentially collected data or threatened national interests, I am sure that the service can resolve it in another way. I'm not going to say anything about the polygraph. I see he's listed in fact for employees of the counterintelligence agency. Also, this attempt to actually apply a polygraph test, to stay inside, and on the other hand, that there is no apparent effect on the security check. I don't think this interpretation is going to go very well, but the fact is that whoever accepts a polygraph test in the end should also be the person who accepts and all the conequences that come from it with confidence in such an examination given the character of the service in which they will work. The further part of the problem is actually one problem that has been defined through relatively few articles, and very different types of checks. I must say that, especially in Article 28, additional manipulation may occur, and this means that a person who maintains contact with other persons including members of a rope family who could pose a security risk or endanger the national security of the Republic of Croatia allows the possibility that, in fact, by marking the person who is possibly in a situation that threatens national security, you can, or anyone who is in the leading places, in a very easy way, resolve the issue of short-term security checks, and that this is not at all in his ability to control or be the culprit. Therefore, this solution must only be made after the conversation has been made and if it cannot remove such doubts, then it can be said that it can be a security obstacle, or an obstacle to doing business. Also, in Article 34, I think another part of the security check should be highlighted. I have also warned my colleagues that the continuation, i.e. the failure to complete these procedures, opens up a great possibility that the situation is actually taking place for a long time so that additional data can be obtained after the security check. And finally, here's one more time to say an opinion about whether or not there are security obstacles. Unfortunately, regardless of these European solutions, it applies to foreigners, but does not apply to the situation of Croatian citizens. This means the competent authority for which we have said that it is not precisely stated that it does not have to accept the report if the issues of foreigners, their citizenship, or in the situation where they are sought, when they are sought for security checks, they are in a situation that is sufficient only to have an opinion without any explanation or has an assessment by the competent authority, which means, in particular, the MUP and through one sentence that someone has a negative security check, it cannot obtain citizenship. For this reason, given these inaccuracies, we are going to look for the applicant, and I believe that there is still the possibility that given the moment that one inaccuracy is taking place, then it is going through several articles that we are not able to support unless the applicant makes arguments that might change its position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13359	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club, distinguished representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13360	Mr. Vice President, distinguished government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. In front of the HNS club, I must first express my satisfaction that the promoter has accepted some of the proposals from the debate in the first reading. In particular, we are pleased that there has been an addition to the text in Article 4 where the applicant may now request the expert opinion of the competent medical institution when the security obstacle depends exclusively on the health condition of the verified person. In Article 13, we are pleased that there is now a more precise provision, i.e. a more precise situation in which a security check can be carried out for foreigners and in Article 25 where a polygraph examination cannot serve as a basis for making final decisions on security obstacles. However, the promoter did not accept a large number of others by us very useful proposals of the initiative, so we will repeat here some of them, and here I pray, as counterpart Ostojić has asked earlier to consider still the possibility of fixing the text because it can indeed be significantly better than the one we have in front of us. I'll go in line with the request to follow me and see if there can be any additional additions and corrections. In the second sentence of Article 4, “the security check questionnaire should be personally completed and consent signed voluntarily and by the person for whom it is carried out. ” This personally filled confuses us. What does it mean to be personally fulfilled? Who and who does that apply to? This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. “Requirement for carrying out a security check for natural and legal persons, for access to classified data, the applicant shall submit a pardon to the competent Security and Intelligence Agency of the National Security Council. So, as Comrade Ostojić said, very precise is defined who. However, when a page is turned and is seen in a security check, excuse the basic security clearance and for security checks for the protection of protected persons, then there is no such precise text regarding who can run, clearly such a single security check, stands, see itself in the text, reads in Article 14 of the basic security check request, the competent authority submits etc. and in Article 15, the same security check at the request of the competent authority. So we're looking outside the club that, if you can be much more precise here because you need it. It was also the purpose and intensity of passing a law like this. In Article 13, we also have some remarks. In fact, we ask ourselves, the person who stands in Article 13 somewhere seems to me to be the fifth sentence, persons who are admitted to work or work in bodies, facilities or facilities of particular importance for national security and for the tasks of the body, facilities, facilities or funds of particular importance for national security. What does it mean by special significance? Who decides what is of particular importance? And finally, when it comes to those people who have been working, say, for more than 5 years when this law is passed, it is understood that all of them will be later checked because it's probably been over five years and there hasn't been any checks because there was no law like this, so we have to ask you to explain to us what and how it's going to be with the check, and what does it mean to be of particular importance? In Articles 20 and 25, there is a need for us to also comply with this text because, I will read to you Article 20, it is very brief, when this is necessary in addition to the procedures laid down in Article 18 of this Act in the case of a security check of the 1st degree, and a measure of secret collection of data prescribed by a special law which is the authority of the Director of the Security Intelligence Agency. So I'm undermining the Director's jurisdiction. Please, just follow me here. In Article 25, the basic security checks carried out in respect of admissions to work in the bodies of the Security Intelligence System may, in accordance with the procedure laid down in a specific law, apply the measures of secret data collection, therefore, again mentioning the secret collection of data, but it shall not be referred to whether or not they are competent directors. So we're just looking to see if it belongs to the same category or if there's another unknown to us that can and in what way run, clearly such an investigation. Article 29 of the talks with persons based on the provisions of this Act shall not be considered to be informed of the discussions within the meaning of the Security and Intelligence System Act. Why do we ask this fence, is it necessary here at all? Article 31 of completed and signed safety check questionnaire shall be limited by the degree of secrecy. We interpret it the following way. So many people will know that someone is being checked for something that belongs to, say, the highest degree of secrecy, and the questionnaire itself is not that degree of secrecy. We believe that the questionnaire should also be harmonised immediately at that level of secrecy, as is the procedure itself which is intended to be achieved, i.e. to verify. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Whether these are European standards we ask you because most officials have a term of four years, and we wonder if it might be possible to bring it into line or if it's really some standard, so we don't want to jump out of that standard, and then we suggest those five years. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Whether or not we can be more specific here again to the state body's authority. Which state body or state bodies? All right, Article 34 of the persons for whom a security check has been carried out are required without delay to report to the on-call authority or legal person whose employees are all data relating to the changes, etc. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This unwarranted non-disclosure, is there a valid non-reporting question we're asking ourselves? Is that how it's supposed to be defined? We don't think that's necessary. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Even if it's a national security threat. So he's just a violation of official duty. Is that enough? Article 39, here I am approaching the end, the content and appearance of the report referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be monitored by the structure of the prescribed questionnaires and shall be marked at least by the degree of confidentiality of the confidential. Once again, at least the degree of secrecy is classified. Why wouldn't that report have the same degree of confidentiality in accordance with the degree of security clearance? Is it logical that the report has one degree of secrecy, and the security check belongs to another, some of the higher degree of secrecy? Article 41 concerns the granting of Croatian citizenship. I am asking you this now for technical reasons because we are interested in something else because of some of our initiatives in the Council of Europe, etc. In fact, what is the cooperation here at European level? We know that many people suspected of war crimes have received citizenship in the countries of the European Union. Were there checks on their part, whether this same law was the European law of this P.Z.E. there equally applied in practice or were there failures apparently made by those countries when they were given citizenship? Now I can't hand them over to Croatia because they're their citizens, and where was the process of checking these people? Okay, I don't know if it was necessary to go with these deadlines in Articles 44 and 46 where the Government is given 15 days from the date of entry into force to adopt the regulation referred to in Article 30 and that the law will only take effect 30 days from its publication, wouldn't it be logical that most of our laws enter into force on the eighth day following its publication and then to the Government to say 45 days? It turns out that the government will have to do something in a very short time, but the law itself will only take place in a month. Is that what was purposely left behind, for some other services must prepare something in that month? If that's the case, we understand that, but we need to be told that's it. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13361	Thank you very much. We're done discussing clubs. We're moving on to individual debates. The first registered representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13362	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I must at first admit that in this part of the job, I do not know much, and I have never been interested in how our Croatian spies work either when it comes to citizens of the Republic of Croatia or foreigners or anything else. But by studying this law, I have come to the conclusion that we are all potentially dangerous, dangerous, and terrorist, but we will never be able to find out about these facts. Maybe I'm completely wrong, but I'm asking you to help me, I might understand, they're smarter than me before, and I'm probably the last one, because I admit it all the way to the end I don't understand. Article 5 of the Law requires that a person whose verification will be required to agree. Okay. Smart, justifiable and understandable. Article 9 states that this goes towards the Office of the National Security Council which continues to pass on to the competent intelligence service not to say spy. The 24th article tells us that those who do so will, therefore, assess the need for a conversation with the person to be checked. They'll judge for themselves. Well, it's normal for me to first and logically talk to that person, because if you're going to talk to neighbors, godfathers and lovers, why not that person you're checking out. And I'm sure you'll include lovers in the conversations and the checks, so there's no dispute. I don't know about marriage mates, and for these outsiders, I know they're the first ones on the list to talk to. Article 27 states that if unequivocal and untrustworthy data occur, then when the service determines this, unequivocal and untrustworthy data shall be carried out to a higher degree of verification. It makes sense. However, a questionnaire issued by the person who agrees to the verification is "secretly limited". Is that understood? "Secretly limited." The report referred to in Article 35 shall be submitted to the applicant for verification, and in Article 39, it shall also provide that the opinion of the verifying service shall be accompanied by the report. This code of secrecy carries a report. Who has the right to see the report and the opinion? The applicant. Did I get understood? Yeah, I guess I am. And it is now further prescribed in Article 40 that the applicant decides independently and makes a final assessment of whether there are security obstacles to the reception, deployment, appointment of the person to a particular place of work, which is why and which applications have been and the verification carried out. Therefore, the final assessment of that applicant does not even have to be in accordance with the opinion of the competent agency. This means that the opinion may be that obstacles exist, but the applicant decides that they do not exist or vice versa. But let's simulate the situation when the report and opinion of the applicant have led to the finding and final assessment that there are security obstacles and therefore the candidate has been annulled from the last procedure. I just have one question. Does the applicant, the person who has been subject to a security check and has not been even spoken to, have the right to insight, find and opinion given to the applicant or whether the applicant has to explain the decision, its final decision that there are security obstacles to the performance of a particular job or not? In this law, not a word of it. Therefore, a citizen who has failed, who has not been admitted, who has not been appointed and deployed to what has appeared and agreed to a security check and because the contracting authority has made the final judgment that there are security obstacles would have no right to see what preceded or on the basis of which such court has been brought. For if he does not have it, he can never again defend himself or prove himself otherwise because he does not need to be spoken to. Because if that conversation had been made, perhaps in a conversation with agents, he would have removed doubts or proved that the neighbor or lover or lover did not give the correct statement and information about it. I fully understand the need for verification and do not object and I believe that the verification should be done for those positions, places and functions where the law provides. It is clear to me, too, that, especially after the development of international terrorism networks, it is necessary and necessary. And it's good that we have a law as government regulations that still apply, wouldn't lead to agents checking on phone conversations, as we've had opportunities recently in several affairs to hear and see. And it is good that the state protects its interest in this way, that indeed everyone cannot come to a place where they will come to contact or visit, data and information that is of national security, important to national security. But I also cannot accept the the thesis or approach that this law offers, that the person who has given consent to the verification, who has not participated in it and has been expelled from the candidate's game because the applicant has brought a final court, and does not have to respect the opinion of the Agency, has no right to see why it is unsuitable for security reasons. So these people have no legal ability to protect their interests and prove that what happened in the check simply isn't true. I'm not saying there's an intention of abuse, but you'll allow it to be, too. If a person cannot gain insight and protect his own interests, no one else will. The service has carried out its duties, the applicant has adopted a final assessment and a point. Therefore, either I have misunderstood, so there is a law on what I am talking about, so he has a right to insight, and if he does not, I ask you to install that provision anyway, that the persons over whom the verification has been carried out have the right to see the opinion of the agency, which is why the contracting authority has reached a final court on the existence of security obstacles to the performance of certain functions and jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13363	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Niko Rebic is still applying for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13364	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have a final proposal for the Security Checks Act, this bill harmonizes the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union. This legislative proposal will fully bring together the legislative regulation that regulates this matter, because in the legal system of the Republic of Croatia, this area is prescribed by a number of legislative and sublegislative regulations in a way that has arisen as a result of the need for different periods and areas of the state administration in which the security check of the constitutional administration is being carried out as an appropriate instrument for the preventive protection of those duties and jobs, jobs and status that are important for the protection of national security. It is the rule of law on areas of state administration in which tasks are carried out for the provision of classified data, higher levels of secrecy, and the provision of facilities and persons of particular importance for national security, and the exercise of duties which are part of the work in close connection with the interests of the protection of national security. Therefore, most of the matter of security checks has been regulated by the Security Information System Act, the Data Securitisation Act, the Information Security Act on Contract Confirmation, but also by a series of other regulations and laws concerning security checks such as the Law on State Attorney's Office, the Police, the Customs Service on Foreigners, etc. The Security Intelligence System Act was passed on 30 June 2006, and it is significant by reducing the secrets of the official, one civilian and one military. It therefore established their relationship, covering indicative areas of application of the security checks and the methods used in this procedure. Who's issuing a warrant for a check and who's controlling all this? In 2007, the Croatian Parliament made a decision on the declaration of the Data Securitisation Act. This law lays down the concept of classified and non-classified data, the degree of secrecy, the classification and declassification process of access to classified and unclassified data and their protection and supervision, and to which the law applies. In 2007, the government adopted a regulation establishing standards for carrying out security checks stemming from the legislation of individual EU countries, as well as specific security acts by the Councils of Europe and the European Commission. In 2007, the Act on Foreigners which prescribes the conditions for the acquisition of certain status rights resulting from that law, with the prior implementation of security measures, was also adopted. This proposal for a law proposes to fully regulate the implementation of security checks, which shall verify the existence of national security obstacles for candidates for certain duties or status rights, i.e. data indicating the existence of a risk of misuse of those positions to national security. Security checks of this law require the degree of security clearance. So there are three degrees, same as for these data that are classified as secret, confidential. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It should be noted that the security verification is carried out on the basis of the questionnaire, which is an integral part of the consent to carry out the verification. The verification questionnaire should be personally met, and this consent shall be signed by the person for whom it is carried out. The security intelligence agency will not access the security clearance, in accordance with the provisions of this law unless consent is signed to carry out the security check. So, by adopting this law, we will align ourselves with the entire matter in the area of national security, and it will be harmonised, we will have everything to join the European Union and NATO. He'll be in sync, and that's why he needs to accept this. If we add that, from the first debate on this law, important remarks are accepted in my opinion, I think we can adopt this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13365	Thank you very much for your esteemed representative. Next, a respected representative of counterpart Zivko Nenadic appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13366	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The matter of security checks has been regulated as already mentioned by a number of legal and sublegal regulations. They are often and not sufficiently harmonised, and in practice there are different interpretations from these provisions. This reason, as well as compliance with NATO and the EU standards, are more than enough to require the adoption of a special law uniting all security checks. It is this bill that provides a full legal arrangement for the implementation of security checks on both natural and legal persons, which in any case implies and security possible obstacles. It is important for the person to know in advance that certain tasks and access to certain information are previously subject to security verification and that, by means of the governmental signature of a particular security questionnaire and a declaration of consent, a voluntary consent to a security check, because there is no security clearance without that signature. Of course, for every security sensitive job and for access to different confidential information, no equally detailed checks are required, so they are also graded. As in today's business world, when it comes to the ownership structure of business entities, more and more of it is stuck, it is blurry. In fact, it's easier to find out who's who and my colleague, Lesar, I'm going to tell who's who, say, lover, lover than who owns what. It is easier for DNA analysis to determine who is the father of the daughter than any possible analysis to determine who is the ultimate owner of the firm's daughter or even the firm. I am therefore particularly pleased that the security clearance of legal persons includes the verification of ownership, the verification of ownership structure, the data in companies owned, the verification of owners, the verification of shareholders and shareholders. So it's all covered. It's especially important when it comes to security. I also support the provision of secret data collection, of course, in accordance with the law when it comes to accessing very secret information, as well as the provision that a polygraph examination for non-confidentiality does not serve as a final decision on security barriers. We also see that certain deadlines for carrying out security checks are based on the degree of verification as well as the renewal of the security check, so every five years. This law, in fact, when we adopt it will be a very important law from a security point of view, but I would also say from the perspective of an individual man. Many human fates depended on security checks. For many, they were also manipulative so-called. Security checks. He wouldn't want to talk about politically similar security checks. For example, there was a time in the Balkans. In this regard, I do not mean a political resemblance when it comes to national and state interests, but rather a party, party or anything like that. I believe that this future Security Verification Act will contribute to increasing security, introduce more order in the security service to defend and reduce the possibility of manipulation. These are the reasons why this law should be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13367	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The esteemed representative, Branko Crljenko, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13368	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The matter of security checks has so far been regulated by a number of legal and sublegal regulations, resulting in a conclusion on the lack of uniformity of matter and problems in interpreting the same provisions in practice. The proposed law proposes an overall and uniform legal arrangements for the implementation of security checks to verify the possible existence of security barriers in the area of national security or data indicating the existence of a risk of misuse of those positions to national security. Article 5 states: "A safe check shall be carried out on the basis of a security check questionnaire whose component is the consent to carry out a security check. The safety check questionnaire should be personally completed and consent signed voluntarily and by the person for whom it is carried out.". As an exception to the principle of volunteering referred to in Article 5 as regards the consent to carry out a security check in the event of a security check in order to protect the security of protected persons and objects, the volunteer of the verified person shall not be required since this type of verification is in any way impossible to carry out the above prescribed procedure of completing the questionnaire. In view of the types of legislation, the JSC introduces a security check for access to classified data, a thorough security check and a security check for the protection of protected persons and objects. Security checks shall be carried out on the basis of each of those types of security checks. A separate degree of security verification has been determined by the different scope of the security questionnaire issue and the selection of procedures to be carried out in order to verify the issue and the security questionnaires, all in a way to ensure the proportionate scope and extent of access to the privacy of the verified person in relation to the importance of the position or status of the person for national security. For example, for access to classified data, a third-degree security check will be carried out which includes a security questionnaire covering, to a lesser extent, the privacy of the candidates than the second or first-degree security questionnaires. In the case of security clearance for access to classified data, "very secret" will apply the most extensive first-degree security questionnaire and the corresponding legally prescribed procedures. On the other hand, in the case of basic security checks and in particular security checks for applicants for admission into the body of the security intelligence system, in addition to the general security clearance procedures, they shall also include the legislation of a regulated instrument of covert measures at the disposal of the security-intelligence services and the polygraph testing. Article 18 states: “The security check of the first degree shall be carried out on the basis of the first-degree security check questionnaire and the application of the procedures for obtaining insight into public sources, official records, databases of competent security intelligence agencies, and so on, not to list in order. However, Article 20 further states: “When this is necessary in addition to the procedures laid down in Article 18 of this Act, in the case of a first-degree security check, a secret data collection measure prescribed by a specific law which has the authority of the Director of Security Intelligence may be applied.” I believe that this article should be deleted since it opens up the possibility of abuse. The law does not specify in which cases the Director may approve a secret collection of data and I think it is necessary to minimise abuses. Besides, why give so much authority to one person? In the context of the basic security checks, the specialities for security checks to be carried out for foreigners running for residence status or for Croatian citizenship have been introduced in such a way that security checks are carried out on the basis of a questionnaire prescribed by a specific legal or sublegal regulation governing foreign matter. Security barriers shall be identified in the light of the type of security clearance and, where appropriate, the specificities of the purpose of each species. In the event of security checks for access to classified data, it is therefore an emphasis on safety barriers that indicate non-confidentiality and non-trust for the availability of classified data or on subjection to influences or pressures in the direction of harming national security. In the case of basic security checks, the emphasis is on the facts that indicate the risk of abuse of a job or of duties or of certain rights or powers to national security. And in the case of security checks for the protection of protected persons or facilities, the emphasis is on the facts that indicate the risk of endangering protected persons. The safety implementation report should also include an assessment of the existence of safety barriers. While the final assessment of the existence of safety barriers shall be carried out by the applicant. Article 32 provides that the renewal of the security clearance shall take place over a period of 5 years. Personally, I believe that this is too long, since the checks are being carried out for tasks of particular importance for national security. That time-limit should be shorter, although further in Article 33 of the Law also provides for the possibility to submit a request to supplement the security verification if the elements are missing are necessary for the final assessment of the security barriers and the request for the renewal of the security checks in the event of the emergence of new data in relation to the answers listed in the safety questionnaire, thereby institutionalising the procedure for the permanent updating of security checks for persons performing duties or tasks for which the security verification is carried out. And finally to conclude. Given the serious problem that is being regulated by this law, I am of the opinion that it should be more precise and clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13369	Thank you very much to the honourable representative. Following is a debate by counterpart Tomislav Ivic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13370	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. With the final proposal for a law on security checks, the legislation of the Republic of Croatia is harmonised with the legislation of the European Union, but the law proposes a complete, uniform and most important quality legal regulation of the implementation of security checks to verify, in the case of candidates for certain duties, jobs, jobs or status rights, the possible existence of security obstacles in the area of national security. This has not been the case until today because the matter of security checks has been regulated by a number of legal and sublegal regulations leading to problems in interpretations and implementation of the same provisions in practice. The law regulates the types and degrees of security verification in view of their purpose and degree of importance, procedures and methods of carrying out a security check, the issues covered by the verification, the competent authorities for carrying out security checks and the volunteering of candidates with written consent to carry out the security check. In the context of each of those types of security checks, the law prescribes and regulates the degree of security clearance, which is also adapted to the level of privacy of the verified person, which I think is very acceptable and good. In the case of basic security checks, and in particular which is understandable in the case of security checks for applicants for entry into the security intelligence services, in addition to general procedures, the law also provides for instruments of covert measures and polygraph testing. The law also lays down the possibility to submit applications for the completion of a security check if the elements for the final assessment are missing and the possibility of the renewal of a security check in the case of entirely new facts in relation to the answers listed in the safety questionnaire which enables and which is a good procedure for the permanent updating of security checks for persons performing duties or tasks for which the security verification is carried out. I will support the adoption of this law because, as I have already said in full, quality, a unique way to regulate this very sensitive matter in accordance with the regulations and standards governing the area of national security in the European Union and NATO, and it is necessary to meet the established obligations for access to Euro-Atlantic integration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13371	Thank you very much. And the last application for a debate on this law is the application of a respected representative of Sima Lučin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13372	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, I'm not going to talk about what this law regulates, but I'm going to try to say a few sentences about what this law doesn't regulate and I think you should regulate. The interesting fact that the law itself did not get a majority on the parent board is saying something about the quality of the law itself. I think we've missed the opportunity to rely on European standards, so if you want to round up NATO standards, we'll round up a whole story about security checks. I'm actually going to try to point out some things that seem to me to be unarranged and that under this law might be the subject of manipulation. And the propos of manipulation in the law doesn't have a single word of responsibility for those who will manipulate the data eventually, which will, let's say, write the truth, so one of them will ask that truth to change, so they won't want it, so let's say they'll get fired or be transferred to another body of state administration. So after that they'll get a court dispute, but no matter what they get a court dispute they're where they are. Because we have to be aware it's not just a questionnaire check. It's actually an impression that this questionnaire is a check. No, the questionnaire is just to say one part of that test where the honesty of the person being tested will be tested. Interestingly, the applicant did not find it appropriate to publish in the law what the questionnaire looks like. My guess is that the regulation that's going to be passed is likely to bear a code secret or a state secret or very secret, will be classified. Because if this regulation is not going to be passed by the government, I don't see any reason why this questionnaire doesn't exist, even though, let's say, questions about NATO checks can be found on the Internet, or they're no secrets. Therefore, I think it was necessary and it seems very important to me that this questionnaire must be an integral part of the law. Personally, I wouldn't be inclined to sign consent if I were checked under this law. I'll try and explain it. I don't really know which intelligence agency is going to be checking up on me. I don't understand why he's writing a competent intelligence agency. Well, we don't have 15 intelligence agencies. We only have two. So no one can check me out. It was therefore necessary to write that everything concerning civil and civil sectors would be checked by the SOA, and what concerns active military personnel would be checked by the Military Intelligence Agency. This is how it turns out, so we have no idea how many intelligence agencies. In particular, it seems inadmissible to me that such a vague and brief formulaation and precision, i.e. does not specify the possibility of checking the company. I don't understand which companies are going to be checked out? Who's this, who's going and what's the competent authority that's going to ask for a checkup? Are these companies working with the state? Are these some third-party companies and who's going to check them out? In what way? I mean, that's where they say they're going to enter the property structure. Well, ownership structure isn't a secret piece of information. That goes into the stock register and gets it. Why am I saying this? Because if this is let go like this, and it's likely that it will also go away and it remains open to manipulation with certain data. I don't think it's a good thing we're leaving these issues open. I'll be brief not to elaborate everything in detail. I return several times already mentioned Article 5 in conjunction with Article 20. Therefore, Article 5 states that the person agrees to verify it. But that person doesn't really know why he's giving consent, or she's giving a binco for all consent. Now you see, in Article 20, which seems to me to be out of line with the Intelligence and Security System Act, and I don't even know how constitutional it is. I'll get a little bit of information on that, and we'll see what we can do about it. Why? So, why is it not taxing on what measures these are, because de facto I know you're probably only thinking about the level of cell phone or phone calls. But it should be written. Because while the director of the service is in charge of all measures, normally some can exercise it directly, and for some he needs the consent of the Supreme Court judge. Therefore, this article 20 can create a big mess, because the person who signs the consent to be checked does not actually know that in such a way it opens up the possibility of being secretly monitored, secretly listening, or if it is exactly how I interpret this article, that a list of phone conversations can be taken away from him. And now we come to me for a key question that I don't think this law will actually revive. So we have one law that neither the Government nor the Proposer knows who it refers to. Here's a question for Mr. Bajim's secretary of state to tell me how many people this law applies to. What does that mean? This means that we do not have in Croatia how many people deal with classified data. The smallest problem is people relating to national security and who are somehow related to national security. Now, you see, I played with numbers a little bit, so I said I took a number of 25, 30,000 cops, tens of thousands of soldiers, a couple of thousand from MWT, and then in all these institutions, the bodies of the public government, I rounded it up to 100,000. Now you see, for 100,000 checks you need if you take 1,000 operatives so many of them there's everyone working on it on their heads for 102 days. Now you're going to tell me that the law doesn't provide for all these people to be checked out by a new questionnaire, even though there's a section there that says that we're going to start finishing up. Now, look, it'll be very interesting to see how you, based on a new methodology, are going to check one new questionnaire, say one cop, and how at the same time you're not going to check it again by a new methodology. So, it's very disputable and it seems very unequal to me. But when it comes to that story, then that story should go all the way down to the details. He's mentioned here and this one, as a polygraph is said, and I'm also interested in asking, so I don't know how many of them are now 25, 30,000 police officers or at least those in Crimea police who are dealing with criminal charges are going to have to go through this new check. Or, say, I don't know the entire diplomatic crust of Croatia, I mean is all diplomats, attachés. Will they have to go through this new one, or won't they? Now, I'm not going to do anything about the polygraph. However, Article 15 speaks of protected persons. That's very interesting to me, too. So, about protected persons, objects, etc. etc. The competent service shall take the decision again, the intelligence service shall decide whether or not they are required and how they will be checked, or objects, etc. Now you see. I read it like this, that the intelligence agency will be able to question and check the members of the prime minister's family, the president of the state, the president of the parliament, vice president, etc. Excuse me, Vice President of the Parliament is not a protected person, which I find unacceptable. But if we go to that story that the environment, the facilities of the protected persons are being checked, then at least you should know about that person who's being protected that day and that day. Because I'm going to warn you, it seems to be the fourth chapter of the Constitution. All election functions are listed there and I think the question of checking this guy or that guy should be very careful at least. Therefore, for me, the least controversial part is the part concerning that part of national security. Now, here's the deal. My question is, if someone, from the employees, is it from the executives, that I mean not the questionnaire, but what goes under the questionnaire, misfills or falsifies the data? I'm interested in being a citizen when I can get an insight into my phone records with all the information that will make one security check. For the simple reason it's three, four years to see if anyone wrote lies or the truth about me, and you don't see any sanctions. I think we should predict them. It is necessary to provide sanctions for those who give false information, for those who forge, so that those who verify these data and show them falsely.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13373	Bring the hearing to an end.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13374	Here, I'm just finishing up, so for all those who can be in this space and abuse their position for the simple reason, let's not forget, this law and the signature of the people and citizens of this country voluntarily decide some of their constitutional rights and then that space of manipulation is large and therefore dangerous. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13375	Thank you. That's what the debate is about to end. And on behalf of the promoter, esteemed Ivan Damjanovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13376	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Here, I thank you for all the suggestions, the opinions, the objections, the praises that went to the expense of this final bill on security checks. One of the fundamental remarks is its possible inaccuracy. On the contrary, I believe that he is very precise and that he very clearly defines and defines all the possible doubts that are now and on this occasion, we should just know this matter a little bit more detail. For example, the objection and the obligation only to answer the question of what to do for those who are subject to these checks and not to obtain a certificate, and now they are employed in such jobs where these security checks are envisaged and as with those to whom that certificate expires, that period of 5 years as well as for those who may, for whom an additional verification will be carried out and after those supplements, may not have obtained that certificate. The answer is, therefore, there is always the possibility of an administrative dispute based on which his status will then be regulated. It was also a question of dual citizenship, of dependence on certain credit-debt issues, all these issues will be detailed by the questionnaire in the article which will go with Article 30 of the Regulation and the answer to the question that this Regulation will be of some secret character is that there will be no such character, it will be public, published, available as well as the content itself and the issues itself that will be within the questionnaire. There have also been objections, to the fact that they do not know which of the relevant bodies that contribute, which instigate the very security checks themselves, I think that this law and this law come out very clearly which ones are the competent authorities and that there is no doubt about it. For example, depending on the type of security clearance involved, if it is a security check for access to falsified data, then it is the Office of the National Security Council. If this third security check is involved in the protection of protected persons and facilities, then it is the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence, and if it is a fundamental security check that may also cause the most conflict over which the competent authorities are involved, the answer is that of which the basic security check is carried out. For example, if it is implemented for persons named or appointed as government officials, it is, of course, the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It was also a question or doubt that it was not clear enough which state officials are handling, I will only remind myself of the existence of a regulation on the calling and implementation of a public tender, an internal ad in the state service where it is very clearly defined who these are and the procedure of appointing state officials, and it is very clear and said which they are by the management of civil servants. Similarly, competent authorities shall also be defined by nature by a further person for whom a thorough security check is carried out. For example, for persons who are admitted to work or work in the security intelligence system bodies, they are SOA, VSOA, National Security Council Office, so these are the competent authorities. The question was that it was not clear as regards the Regulation also referred to in Article 30, which are persons who are admitted to work or working in bodies, facilities or facilities of particular importance for national security and for the tasks of the body, facilities, facilities or funds of particular importance for national security. Therefore, it will also be defined by a special regulation, so that it will know exactly what objects are concerned. In addition, persons who are admitted to work or work on the tasks of the body or technical security of protected persons and facilities, the competent authority for the initiation of security checks is, of course, the Ministry of the Interior as well as the verifications for responsible persons in legal persons registered for the conduct of private protection activities. So there were a number of opinions, suggestions, remarks, it would be very demanding and a lot of time would mean if I went individually to look back, but I'm trying to put them in certain categories. It was a matter of the right to see the documentation for those who have security obstacles. Therefore, this area is also regulated by the Security Intelligence System Act, which provides that those persons have the right of insight except in some cases where there is a potential threat to national security itself. So I said about the polygraph itself, there was some thinking in that sense and direction, the polygraph can be applied, so if that person that it's agreeing to. This does not mean that you will go to all persons using a polygraph test. Here, I thank you for your attention, and I am also obliged to refer to the amendments that I received during this debate, and I have carefully studied them, and indeed respecting and the fact that, in part, they overlap and with the opinions and attitudes expressed here, here I can conclude that amendments 1, 2, 3 and 4, so all 4 I accept. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13377	Thank you. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. First, he's a respected representative of Shima Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13378	Well, it's an incorrect assumption that we have some sort of list of state officials and subsistence officers who will be subject to verification. Inaccurate for a simple reason. There are thousands of people in the bodies of a local administration unit with public authority, etc. who's been messing with... Data. [[You don't understand.]] The National Security Council's office will have to check them too. And finally, I'm sorry that the secretary of state is not obvious about Article 20. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13379	Thank you. And the correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Ranko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13380	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the ministry. I'd just like to point out the false assumption of precision specifically to article 3 on security obstacles. That's exactly where I was trying to discuss inciting the Secretary of State, the security obstacles in carrying out the security clearance for access to classified data are defined by the Data Securitisation Act. This law also provides for the possibility of a certificate of administrative dispute, and for all others, there is no possibility of administrative dispute for security checks. That's what I wanted to point out, and I don't think that's good.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13381	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13382	14, Final proposal for a safety check law, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 66. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by MP Tomislav Culjak, who was accepted by the proposing representative and became an integral part of the final proposal. Since it is an organic law in accordance with Article 226. We bring the Rules of Procedure to the overhalf majority, so 77 votes and more. I am voting on the final proposal for a security check law. Please, let's get on with it. Let's vote. The result? The bill was passed mostly with 81 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 23 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13383	We're moving to agenda nine. - Final proposal of the Act confirming the Additional Protocol with the Convention on Transfer of Convicted Persons, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 128 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 154. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Drazen Bosnjakovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13384	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. The Act attesting the Additional Protocol to the Convention on Transfer of Convicted Persons ratifies the Additional Protocol. The obligation to ratify the Additional Protocol with the Convention on Transfer of Convicted Persons stems from the obligation relating to Chapter 24 of the negotiations, which is justice, freedom and security and is foreseen by our national programme for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. At its meeting on 18 April 2008, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a decision to initiate the procedure for the conclusion of the Additional Protocol with the Convention on Transfer of Convicted Persons. On behalf of the Republic of Croatia, the additional protocol was signed by the authorised representative on 29 April 2008. Most of the Member States of the Council of Europe are parties to the additional protocol. The Additional Protocol contains provisions supplementing the Convention on the Transfer of Convicted Persons, which has been ratified by the Republic of Croatia and which entered into force in relation to the Republic of Croatia on 1 May 1995. The Additional Protocol lays down the rules applicable to the transfer for the purpose of carrying out the sentence. First, in cases where a convicted person flees from the state where he was sentenced, it means from the country of sentencing in a country whose citizen he is, that means the state of execution. And secondly, in cases where a convicted person has been punished for being expelled or deported for his sentence. The purpose of the additional protocol is, inter alia, to facilitate the application of the Convention and to further facilitate the social rehabilitation of convicts. Given the importance attached to this legal instrument to the Council of Europe, the validation of the additional protocol is a significant step in further adapting Croatia's legal system to European standards. Compared to Croatian legislation, confirming an additional protocol will require the addition of the Law on International Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters. The law on international legal aid in criminal matters will need to be brought into line with Articles 2 and 3 of the Additional Protocol. Confirmation of this additional protocol will ensure the enforcement of judicial decisions and prevent the avoidance and respect of criminal sanctions imposed by the competent court or by a judicial or administrative authority. This will mean a contribution to legal certainty and the rule of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13385	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? As far as I can tell, no. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13386	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club will support this Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Additional Protocol with the Convention on Transfer of Convicted Persons, with the Final Proposal of the Law. Here's not to repeat everything Mr. Secretary of State has stated on behalf of the promoter, to note that indeed the transfer of dried persons is one of the ways to resociate such persons and there is no doubt that such a resociation is best conducted in the country of execution, and that is also the most common country of judgment. However, the place of initiation does not always have to be and often in this globalized world is not the place, the domicile place of residence of such an perpetrator. And in that I don't think at all, you don't need to spend words or distribute them at all. These are some kind of modern gains of penology and certainly I say it's for support. However, it is truly surprising why we did not get, in addition to this bill, immediate amendments to the law, to our Law on International Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters, because there is no doubt as the Proposer himself clearly states here in the assessment of the state of this bill, that it will be necessary to amend several articles of our Law on International Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters which are precisely talking about these technical matters as it is, therefore, on the basis of not only the Convention but also this Protocol. So then we'd have one circled immediate package and we could stick to it and end up with a clean legal situation. We need to know, therefore, that these addresses are being closely monitored despite what is happening on the legislative plan, and this is an old one of the confusion, is the additional protocol, or the proposal of the Act to confirm an additional protocol with this Convention on Transfer of Convicted Persons, and why it is not followed. That's how you explain to these people that it's not being handled because we haven't changed the Law on International Legal Assistance yet. So it wasn't one particular effort and I think that here if it wasn't immediately done, it should be done very soon. However, there is something very confusing. Croatia has certainly increased its activities in the past seven, eight years, primarily in its environment, but remains in international legal aid in different areas. Both in criminal years and in civil matters, and in these so-called penological matters, as we are today discussing, that is, tonight, the transfer of convicted persons. However, as it is indeed based on such numerous international and conventions, and protocols and bilateral agreements with individual countries, things are in place. Croatia can say it is doing well and fulfils its obligations. However, somehow, it does not seem to me that Croatia is treated the same way as the countries that have signed with us or bilateral agreements or which also bind such protocols and conventions. Why is that? Here we see a recent search for a suspect, a war criminal indictee. With Austria, we have several, not only to be bound by joint conventions, but also special protocols, very momentous. And we are doing so to seek Austrian authorities, but when Croatia asks for a Croatian citizen, then either he is sick, or he is old, or he is powerless, and even when he says he is in excellent physical and mental condition. Or a further example, the convict of economic crime in Germany, who in the meantime won German citizenship and thus is saved and Germany does not want to extradite him, and here there are two powerful rulings for economic crime and two other proceedings open, one in the investigation, and one in the trial phase. And he waits there in Germany forever and occasionally appears over our weeks to mock the Croatian state. But he's not mocking him, he's mocking that state that won't hand him over. When we asked him to be questioned how he got that German citizenship based on false or doubtful false documentation, the German authorities did not report the fighting. So here are just some examples that express some suspicion that when these conventions are to be implemented and with additional protocols or bilateral agreements, when Croatia asks for it with a full first, because the country is a signatories, because it fulfils the same obligations towards countries and the environment and with all those signatories, then the fight against Croatia does not act accordingly. But why can we ask ourselves that? Here is where the transfer of convicted persons, how many persons, although they are based on this convention that has long existed, are indeed many proceedings, the public does not know how many of our convicts are, how many of our Croatian citizens have been convicted in foreign countries and how many have been transferred. Enough. However, our prison system is being watched outside. And he is setting up a serious security problem and this security problem is not just a prison system, it is not only a problem of the Ministry of Justice, and neither is the government, it is the problem of the Croatian state as a whole. This was also warned by the Ombudsman, and instead of all of us supporting him together, the report by the Ombudsman among other things, and therefore was assessed by the government as being kept informed, not supported as well as all other reports. Therefore, if one prison escaped to us annually, or last year, the question is what kind of picture we are, or message, we are sending to other of our neighbours and other countries signatories and protocols and conventions and bilateral and some other more complex contracts that we are obliged to transfer to such persons, but we are also asking them to do the same. So here's the opportunity to once again draw attention to the unsustainableness of the prison system and all together to be like a credible country, not to create this problem as some kind of political issue, but first of all a common issue, a matter of security, to see that there are difficult situations and to see what we really have to do. I think that, above all, and not only the parliamentary committee, which is measured above all and competent to discuss these matters, but it's equally important that the Parliament should have a really thematic debate on this fall, to make some conclusions together, because we did so for the time of the coalition government, when it was also, there was never a very great situation, there were always difficulties, there always needed a lot of resources, but together we made decisions, which we then obliged the government to take urgently some measures to improve the prison system. These were quite recovered by intervention, it was very special to me, which was not originally intended for that system, but precisely because of the implementation of the Parliament's conclusions it did. So, in order for us to be credible, that we could not only meet the obligations that we take, but where we could really demand that they treat us the same way, that we are able, that we have developed institutions, a secure system, a secure prison system. And having a secure prison system means we're a really serious country. A country that has a high degree of security, because a country with a bad prison system that threatens a constant amount of tension doesn't send a good message in that security aspect. And here's what I'm saying, the SDP Club supports this Bill on Confirmation of an Additional Protocol with the Convention on Transfer of Convicted Persons with the Final Proposal of the Law, noting and mentioning this opportunity to alert the situation in the prison system, and that there are really urgent intervention measures here as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13387	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13388	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's the basic purpose of the additional protocol with the Convention on Transfer of Convicted Persons is actually to facilitate the application of the Convention on Transfer of Convicted Persons and, above all, to provisions relating to further facilitating the social rehabilitation of convicts. In any event, it should be pointed out that the Republic of Croatia is a party to the Convention in question and that it came into force in relation to the Republic of Croatia on 1 May 1995. The Convention itself facilitates the social rehabilitation of prisoners in such a way as to enable foreigners convicted of a criminal offence to maintain a sentence in their own country in such a way as to eliminate difficulties in communication due to language barriers and lack of contact with family members, noting that the transfer requires consent and two states of course but also convicted persons. The Convention also regulates the procedure carried out in prison that takes place after the transfer itself. As regards the provisions of the Additional Protocol itself, it is necessary to refer to or highlight two situations which it has in its core and regulates or refer to two different situations. The first refers to persons who escaped from the state of judgment, so this is the first situation. And secondly, those are those provisions relating to convicted persons in respect of whom an order for expulsion or deportation is issued. Just confirming this additional protocol ensures really two important things. First, the enforcement of powerful judicial decisions on the one hand, and on the other or on the other hand, shall be prevented from avoiding the application and respect of criminal sanctions imposed by the competent court or by a judicial or administrative authority. Finally, the confirmation of this additional protocol is made of an unequivocal contribution not only to legal certainty but also to the establishment of the rule of law, and in this sense the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13389	Thank you. And an individual debate. We've got one. Dear Representative Vladimir Ivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13390	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Secretary of State. The Protocol with the Convention on Transfer of Convicted Persons is before us, given that the Convention which has been adopted regulates the issue of transfer of convicted persons and with the aim of facilitating the social rehabilitation of prisoners, in a way to enable them to return to society in a place where they know the language and where relatives are practically easier to return to the society in a way that is easier to rehabilitate and engage as an active member of society. As far as the Convention was in force and so far, the fact is that some of the issues that were important for that area are being settled, which is that the prison sentence cannot be committed in the country, for example, into fines. The executing State must recognise and include the period of execution and that period which has been in another country and cannot extend the sentence imposed in prison. On the basis of that Convention, two additional situations shall be regulated. As we could hear, this protocol still regulates the situation when a convicted person flees the country of sentencing to a country whose citizen he is, therefore, in a state of execution. If it escapes before the execution of the sentence, the State of the sentence may request the State whose nationality is the taking over of the sentence. On the basis of the request by the State of the judgment, the country concerned may take provisional measures of arrests, etc. all necessary for later when an application for enforcement has been submitted. The second situation is when a convicted person receives a measure of exile or deportation from the country and in a similar way as in the first situation is practically governed by this Protocol, the addition of the Protocol regulates the situation where the State of the sentence is then required in the country in which the exile or deportation was committed. Accordingly, harmonisation of legislation should also be made by an appropriate amendment to the Law on International Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13391	Thank you. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Dear Drazen Bosnjakovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13392	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Just one sentence. I thank the clubs that pointed out here to support this law. Indeed, after the law comes into force, we will go with an amendment to this second law on international legal aid. Indeed, this prison system has a number of problems that you have warned about, but we are making great efforts to expand capacity in both the Glina and the construction of a new facility in Sibenik so that we will overcome it in some future period, but in relation to the conditions that we now have incident situations I really don't think are as numerous as it is in public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13393	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13394	We are going to the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Additional Protocol with the Convention on Transfer of Convicted Persons, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 128. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law confirming the Additional Protocol with the Convention on Transfer of Convicted Persons. Please, let's get on with it. Let's vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by 107 votes for, 2 abstentions and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13395	Point 10. We don't have the conditions to discuss item 10 because the committees haven't done their part of the task. Moving to point 11. - Final bill on officials and tenants in local and regional (regional) self-government, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 80 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Local Region (regional) Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Antun Palaric, State Secretary of the Central State Administration Office. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13396	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The local self-government system in the Republic of Croatia is an effective system, a system that receives more and more competences and responsibilities, which assumes a significant part of responsibility for the development of its end and thus a more even development of the Republic of Croatia. We therefore believe that this system must have strong administrative capacity and that working relations in local self-government which now employs over 12 thousand local employees and subsistences must be governed by a special law. So far, a single law has been applied to civil servants and local officials and tenants. In the meantime, we have implemented a significant reform of the official system by installing European standards and we believe that by law, and in particular by applying the laws and the construction of institutions that apply the Law on civil servants, we have improved official relations in the Republic of Croatia. Until now, the earlier Civil Service Act has remained in force in relation to local officials and has been properly applied to them as we do not think possible in the future and that this system should also be regulated by a special law but in a way that includes universal values and achievements of labour relations in the Croatian state. Although it is European law, this law is in front of you in a second reading. So we agreed to conduct a debate on him in a regular procedure and we believe that this will also contribute to making the law more quality. I will not repeat everything that is said in the first reading because the law is large and complete I will only emphasise that we are providing conditions for the reception of a local service so that, as an obstacle to reception, it is referred to among other things as the conduct of criminal proceedings or convictions for crimes against life and bodies, against the freedom and rights of man and citizen, against the value protected by international law, against sexual freedom and sexual prodigy, against marriage, family and youth, against property, security, legal traffic and business, against justice, against the credibility of the document, against public order and against official duty. I had to stress this because of you who will believe to pass this law but also for the Croatian public to understand how we insist and not to receive in local services persons who have a wicked past behind them or against whom some of the proceedings are being conducted for this one that I would call a dutiful act of crime. Of course, we have tried to develop and responsibility, to ensure two-stage resolution of cases concerning local officials, to prescribe public procurement for the reception of the service and to arrange the whole procedure for the implementation of the public tender in order for the reception to be transparent as well as the responsibility of officials, as well as the heavy and easy violation of official duties. I would point out that unlike our first reading, we've also arranged for members of the national minorities to be admitted. The Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities in the Republic of Croatia is in force and therefore through all specific laws we are working on it so that it can be fully applied and in this law we have arranged it. I see we've also received an amendment to that article. We will declare that amendment when conditions are created for this, when we declare ourselves on the other amendments. Another difference is with the first reading, which is that in this proposal, the final draft of the law does not contain employment coefficients. Discussing on the Economic and Social Council and in the public debate, it was decided that the system should be fully regulated to pay for all those paid out of public income by both civil servants and public servants. In the autumn, the Government will also propose a Law on the salaries of civil servants but also a special law that will regulate wages in local self-government and in public services where we will seek to introduce a real relationship but not in a way that is likely to improve wages where there are more significant lags. Ladies and gentlemen, this law has been given to the opinion and national associations of cities, municipalities and counties, and we have installed almost all the remarks we have received. We even talked with the city of Zagreb about this bill, and we believe that it is a law that corresponds to the Croatian moment, the local self-government in 2008 and that opens up a space for further improvement of the personnel, administrative capacities of units of regional and local self-government. Therefore, I ask you to support the adoption of this law and that 12 thousand local officials and tenants are finally resolved to legally regulate their working legal status. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13397	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Clubs first. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13398	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. After the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in 1990, at the end of 1992 and during 1993, other organic laws for the establishment and operation of local units were adopted in addition to the basic Law on Local Self-Government and Administration. The laws adopted then regulated the powers and powers of the body of local units, their responsibilities and relations, the choice of representative bodies, the financing of local units, but lacked the adoption of a full-fledged Labour Legal Status Act based on the work of officials and subsistence officers, so the transitional period was governed by the Law on Administration from afar back in 1978. In 2000, the amendments to the Constitution open a platform for reforming local self-government systems and begin the process of decentralisation of jobs and powers and in 2001 a new Law on local and regional self-government resulting in concrete decentralisation. Both laws interpret administrative and professional tasks in local and regional self-government bodies as being carried out by officials and the hosts are accompanied and assisted. However, rights, obligations and responsibilities are properly governed by the Law on civil servants and tenants, and this is not a way appropriate to the needs, specificities and diversity of local self-government. The procedures implemented during 2002 have not yet been implemented by law governing the equal status of officials and subsistence in local self-government, so the application of the law governing these issues for civil servants and tenants is still a permanent source of legal uncertainty. This law regulates the rights, obligations and responsibilities of officials and deputies resolved by the Law on civil servants and tenants from 2001 to 2005, which have been shown to be a good solution, as it respects the good practice of the Member States of the European Union with the prescribed public opinion procedure on the choice of candidates according to knowledge, abilities and the resolution of potential conflicts of interest, the fight against corruption and the like. It should be said that this text of the final bill is very much in line with the union's opinion and as state secretary Mr. Palaric and the national associations of units of local and regional self-government said. Both trade unions and national associations represent the opinion that it is more practical to regulate the working legal status of all employees by the same regulation in addition to the general trend in the world, that the tenants are singled out and applied general labour regulations. This separation would be mainly impractical for local self-government units that number only two to three employees, i.e. officials and subsistences, with the fact that even then there are discrepancies and divergences in the application of the rules. This law provides for a decision on rights and duties, obligations of officials and deputies in the second degree so that the first degree determines the controller, and in the second degree, pardon in the first degree, and in the second degree the Head of the Unit of Local Self-Government and Appeal is not allowed, but there is a possibility of starting the administrative dispute. For serious violations of official duty, there is no need to take time, as the Secretary of State has already explained, and in the coming period it is necessary to adopt specific regulations that will regulate the classification of jobs and wages. In fact, an agreement has been reached with the social partners. We are also informed by the Secretary of State in the Economic Social Council that the salaries are subject to special laws under a single system of salaries for public administration, and after the adoption of that law, the classification of jobs is regulated by the regulation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And definitely for the end, we really have a very high-quality law that respects the opinion of all relevant investment factors, from local self-government associations, the union of good practice of EU member states with a particular emphasis on specificities. Of course, this is what we apostrophe the needs of local self-government, which is why they will, and these are the reasons why the HDZ Club will support the draft law on civil servants and tenants in local and regional self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13399	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13400	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. So, the proposal for a law on officials and tenants in local, regional self-government is in the second reading. But there's no difference from the first reading, although there was a reason for a good step. In fact, in democratic societies and states and local self-government, it has its own organisational background and its own logic. Thus, democratically-organised states are divided into three relatively interdependent functions at all vertically-organised levels, and so on into legislative, therefore representative, administrative executive and of course judicial. The operation of local and regional executive authorities must not only be established by regulations, but also limited by legal norms in terms of the participatory and jurisdiction, as well as the independence of decision-making in local self-government. It is a special responsibility to regulate the law to respect the principle of legal action against arbitration in local self-government. In both local and regional administrations, rules must be pre-protected for citizens' rights both in terms of content and process. None of the activities of the local and regional self-government sector must be exclusively concerned by individuals but by the institution of the rule of law and the rule of law. Today's public administration should be organised in general by the principles of public interest of citizens, not by the authorities. The workers on whom the interests of working people are easier and better achieved in the local self-government would be willing to respect the law and the legal procedure, not the will of politicians and politicians if the work, jurisdiction and responsibility of officials and deputies were very precisely arranged not only in the executive authority but also in the representative body. This is achieved by measures of deconcentration, decentralisation of administration and, in particular, local self-government, which must not rely solely on the state but also on the representative body of units of local and regional self-government. The point of local self-government is to be as close to the citizens as possible, to be a service to the citizens, not to exercise the function of the state through the central office. This law does not provide for the function of local administration as a service of citizens. The influence of political powers is particularly regulated and a crucial supervisory function of the state's public administration portfolio, today the Central State Public Administration Office will strengthen after this law. So without the decentralisation of the state and the state administration, citizens will not benefit significantly from this law. Unfortunately, neither officials nor deputies in local self-government, and because the average system is being established, I will tell you why, local self-government and thus eliminates the influence of the representative body on the citizen service. It is certainly more important to satisfy the political executive authority of the local self-government, especially the representative body of the state for the state administration, because the law has allocated special control, special supervision in law enforcement, the reception of workers and evaluation of workers, therefore, both officials and residents in local self-government through the state office. There is not a word about the elasticity and flexibility of local self-government, which is the meaning of all the instructions of the European Union and their reforms. Here's a few arguments for that. We have already heard here from even the proposing representatives that the Government, Articles 79 and 80, will, even by law, establish the salaries of local officials and subsistence officers by the proposed law. Do you think it is acceptable in our system to eliminate collective agreements, negotiations with social partners by means of an act of government, and thus replace the will of employees and representatives of local self-government. I think it is more centralisation than we could expect when we swear to organise the country in accordance with the Charter of the European Union and the requirements of the European Union. In fact, Article 79, I must quote, the 79th proposed law says "the classification of jobs is governed by the regulation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia". I could also agree that it is possible to classify jobs everywhere, even if it is possible to set criteria for the evaluation and evaluation of jobs, but Article 80 says "unequivocally the salaries of officials and tenants are governed by a special law". Therefore, the influence of local self-government on the salaries of officials and tenants in local self-government is eliminated. Was this really the goal when we said that we would decentralize this country and strengthen the function of local self-government in favour of the influence of citizens? They know best what their interest is in the framework of the activity allocated to local self-government. Ecology, municipal activities, urban planning, urban planning, sustainable development. Who better can arrange this and who can better evaluate what kind of expert they need in this area from local self-government units, especially citizens who are most interested in the role. If we add to this article 128, there is no doubt that the government has decided to strengthen its role so that through these acts we can discipline local self-government. Article 128(3) of the special law governing the salaries of officials and temporary staff. It's the last article, the end of the rule of law so far. If we add that administrative and inspection supervision will be carried out by the central government in charge of official relations, it is a state office, then we can really ask whether this is a step in decentralisation of the Croatian administration, in modernising the state administration on the separation of local and state administrations from politics? We can't give the grade that it is. We have to say it's not. What's good? In this law, it's good because it opens up some security to officials and tenants in local self-government, but it doesn't give any chance of raising wages below average to those who deserve to get it. In this way we concreteize the state instead of opening up a perspective in local self-government and capable people among officials and tenants, but something else, that local self-government can seek within the frameworks of the greatest knowledge that can be needed or have for various areas of environmental, space protection or something like that. Therefore, this law will ensure continued practice for the official to be dependent on the will of politics, not on the rule of law. In this way, citizens will not get the power to influence local self-government, but it is less important, but it will not be able to get the opportunity to influence and create a realisation of their interests through the organisation of local self-government. Since the law is a shift, not a step towards modernisation and decentralisation, we cannot be against this law, but we must clearly say that we have not taken the opportunity to take at least one step towards europeanising local and regional self-government in the Republic of Croatia. That's what makes us sad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13401	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Honorable Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13402	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. This law, as we can see, regulate the admission to the service of rights, obligations and responsibilities of officials and deputies in the administrative departments and services of the unit of local and regional self-government, as well as other issues of importance for the exercise of the rights and obligations of officials and subsistence. This law meets the need to adopt a specific law on the rights, obligations and responsibilities of officials and deputies in the administrative bodies of the unit of local self-government and units of the regional self-government shall respect the specificity of the units of local and regional self-government, thereby contributing to the decentralisation and differentiation of the competence of the harmonisation of practices and legal certainty. The law contains the solutions of the Law on Civil Servants and Altmarkers of 2001 as well as certain solutions of the Law on Civil Servants of 2005 which have shown themselves well in practice with respect to the recommendations and good practice of the Member States of the European Union. The general trend in the world is the separation of deputies from the system relating to officials and the application of general rules in the work on the same, the editing of the status of officials and subsistences by the same regulation, as this law does. It is in line with attitudes and unions, as well as national associations of local units. That solution also eliminates the impracticality caused by the application of different laws for employees in the same administrative body, with particular emphasis on the fact that the unit of local self-government, for example administrative departments with two to three employees and subsistence, as well as on the non-compliance so far in the application of the rules which are partly conditional upon and the application of two different regulations. In Article 3(2) of this Act, we undoubtedly strengthen the protection of officials and deputies in the administrative bodies of local units, since it prescribes the possibility to regulate their material and other rights by collective agreement concluded by authorised representatives of trade unions and municipal chief, i.e. mayor or mayor. This law is a decision on rights and obligations, for example. in the reception of the service, the schedule at the workplace, the transfer, the making available and termination of the service for officials and temporary staff in the administrative bodies of local units provided for in two degrees according to Articles 5, 6 and 7 of this law shall be decided by the head of the administrative body in the first instance, while in the second decision shall be made by the municipal chief or mayor or mayor. Exceptionally, if a decision is taken on the rights and obligations of the head of the management body in the first instance is decided by the municipal chief, mayor or mayor. We see that no appeal is allowed, but an administrative dispute can be initiated. This has also taken over the practice of the Member States of the European Union, as well as the quality of the issue of decision-making on the rights and obligations of officials and subsistence in the administrative bodies of local units in relation to the solutions so far, since another degree of verification or supervision in the decision-making process has been ensured, and before the administrative dispute as a final step in the protection of the right. This also achieves transparency in the field of employment of employees and subsistence in the administrative bodies of local units, since that plan determines the real situation and filling of the workplace and the number of staff and staff required for the period for which the plan is to be carried out, and the publication in the official publication becomes available to all the information contained in the plan. As regards the conditions for admission to the service of Article 14 of this Act, a newspaper shall be introduced allowing persons who do not have a state expert examination to be admitted to the service provided that they are placed within one year of their admission into the service. In view of the Constitution guaranteed... state and public services to all citizens on equal terms, this law also prescribes the obligation of a public tender at reception in service. The exemption from the competition obligation rules is limited to a minimum in order not to leave room for the application of the rules or to deliberately avoid tendering. The system of merit, i.e. the ability, is another newspaper aimed at receiving as high-quality and trained staff as possible in the service as possible, as well as objectifying the conditions of reception in the service, i.e. in such a manner as prescribed reception in the service that will not leave room for manipulation. In addition to meeting the formal conditions, candidates shall also pass written testing, interview and, where appropriate, check through practical work on certain tasks. In contrast to the applicable law as a procedural regulation for serious infringements of official duty, the application of the General Administrative Procedure Act is envisaged instead of the appropriate application of the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act so far. For the first time, this law regulates the issue of officials and employees in the administrative bodies of local units for the first time and takes over the practice of the Member States of the European Union, but they are still as old as we have heard the solutions that have proved useful through practical work in our administration system. And due to all the good solutions this law offers, the Croatian Peasant Party club will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13403	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. First, she is a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinović. It's not. He's losing his right to debate. Then he's the esteemed representative of Branko Box. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13404	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This Regulation shall enter into The Law on Local and Regional Self-Government as well as the earlier laws of 92 is prescribed that administrative, professional and other tasks in the bodies of units of local and regional self-government are carried out by officials and subsistence. The draft law governing the working status of officials and deputies in local self-government was implemented during 2000, but the law was not passed. This law regulates the rights, obligations and responsibilities as well as other issues of importance for the work of officials and deputies in the administrative bodies of local (regional) self-government units. The law contains the solutions of the Law on civil servants and tenants of 2001 and the Law on State Servants of 2005 which in practice proved to be good with respect to the recommendations and good practice of the Member States of the European Union. The procedure for the public tender so-called "procedure" has been prescribed. "Merit" system or the choice of candidates according to knowledge, skills, the fight against corruption, the resolution of potential conflicts of interest, the decision in two stages on rights and obligations of officials and deputies. The law itself defines the admission to the service of that right, obligations and responsibilities of officials and deputies. The term "officer" and "soldier" are also defined. Article 5 refers to the reception of the service, the schedule at the workplace and other rights and obligations of officials as well as the termination of the service, it is said that it decides to decide by a decision by the head of the management body, and an appeal may be made against the first-degree decision of the head of director to the municipal chief, mayor or mayor. There is a particular question here, given that in the first instance, the decision is made by the head, he says, but the mayor, or the mayor, rather than the one who brought the first-degree solution. For the purpose of removing current doubts in practice whether candidates who do not have a state expert exam can be accepted in the competition, it is said that the person who has the necessary working experience in the relevant jobs and who has no state professional exam, can be admitted to the service and deployed to the workplace provided that the examination is passed within one year of admission into the service. Furthermore, criminal offences which constitute an obstacle to the reception of the service are prescribed. In view of the Constitution, the guaranteed availability of public services to all citizens under equal conditions, the obligation to tender for admissions to service shall be prescribed. Officials are also obliged to train permanently for job jobs and to perfect professional skills with organised education programmes through workshops, courses and counselling. Senior officials are obliged to enable their subordinates to attend organised programmes. This is why I will personally support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13405	Thank you. Honorable representative Krešimir Gulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13406	Dear Vice President, State Secretary with an associate, co-workers and fellow MPs. Here I will, with a few words, refer to the proposal of the Law on Officials and Landlords of local and regional (regional) self-government. We have before us the law that will cover about 550 municipalities and cities, 20 counties and the City of Zagreb, which means that this law will cover about 12,000 employees in local regional and regional self-government. So every day it is expressed the need to adopt a special Law on legal obligations and responsibilities of officials, subsistences in the administrative bodies of the unit of local and regional, regional self-government, which will also respect these particularities in all local self-government units. The appropriate application of the provisions of another law which does not know and respects the specificities of local self-government, has, for years, caused in some ways different interpretations and approaches in practice and create some sort of legal uncertainty. The proposal for this law was drawn up on the basis of the texts of the early proposals of the Law on Officials in the local self-government of the experience of regulating the obligations and responsibilities of civil servants in accordance with the good practice of the members of the European Union, and the text of the Proposal for a Law on Employees and Landowners in local and regional self-government which was created by a working group appointed by associations, cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia. The text of the final bill, which is certainly important to say, has been delivered to the national associations of units of local and regional self-government, and to trade unions, and is significantly in line with their observations and proposals. Here I would say just a few questions which will be settled by this law, meaning the definition of the concept of officials and deputies, the demarcation of jobs they carry out, the admission to service, the rights and obligations of officials, the professional training and training of officials, the assessment of officials, the status of subsistence, the supervision of the application of laws, criminal provisions and the status of officials and subsistence during the transitional period. What I would like to say personally and to commend the legislator in my first reading, I have suggested one proposal, and here I am pleased that it is covered by Article 124, which says that in order to protect the established officers and retain the rights acquired in the final draft of the law, a provision has been added that officials and subsistences found on the day of entry into force of this law in places for which they do not comply with the prescribed conditions of professional preparation may, following the adoption of a Regulation on the internal order in accordance with the provisions of this law and a Regulation on classification jobs, be deployed to jobs for which the condition of the technical arrangement for a degree is prescribed more than the technical arrangement that these officials and the deputies had. That's what I think is particularly important exactly what I said in the first reading, that we really have a lot of employees who are here by establishing new units of local self-government in '93. and '95. years, and the unification of certain municipalities have been taken over. There wasn't much choice, there wasn't a high level of expertise, and these people did an important job for me from accounting all the way to the very structure of our municipalities and cities. I think this is how we protected them so they wouldn't actually be reduced to their salary and put on the minimum wage, I think that's how it's done. As for the salaries themselves, as the Secretary of State said, I think that I hope that the salaries should not go down in the units of local self-government, even if we have to be aware that there may be some illogicalness in some, but I hope that the Government will certainly make sure that these salaries are not reduced, because here is the specificity of our municipalities and cities, and we will find it difficult to find workers who will do these jobs if the salaries are reduced. Well, here's what's been said, how's the cancer and the secretary of state I hope all of this won't touch you, and for all of this before I'll support the passing of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13407	Thank you. And the esteemed representative, John Hanzek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13408	Well, I'm the Honorable Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. After 15 years of intensive work which professionally, volunteering at various functions in local self-government, a man would have to be happy, if we had finally come to the law and I can really express satisfaction on that side, that we are finally discussing today the law that we are going to vote for through the City Association, I must even say very cooperatively working together for many years. Some times there was no political will, some times there wasn't a political moment because of more important jobs to come to the agenda, and now we've come to that point. I'll continue in fact where the esteemed colleague and friend Gulic stopped. In fact, the state administration is that it is the same and different, because in Dubrovnik and Rijeka, and in Zagreb, businesses are about the same. In the case of local self-government at 35, 32 actually municipalities in Krapina-Zagorska County and the city, it is difficult for you to compare two municipalities and two cities and to say that it is the same, by name, by authority, by dealings that are in power. But when you look at the personnel composition, when you look at the organization, the number of departments, then we actually come into a situation where the concept of pay is very questionable. In small towns and small municipalities, people work two or three or four jobs at the same time. Four jobs that in the larger city, four contractors with certain professional equipment, qualifications and are not really a "Cat for All". We can say that to us, I speak from personal experience except accounting and finance, clean accounting and finance, everyone else is a playmaker and a player for everyone. At the same time, the communal director is a communal speaker for the calculation of the municipal contribution. At the same time, there are also a number of jobs that are difficult to describe, because they are the ad hoc jobs that citizens expect local self-government to solve in walking and immediately and which is often in the description of jobs and jobs as it was once called no classified and no mention mentioned. Secondly, I can say specifically about my city of 15 per hour people's work slightly more by the number of perpetrators because we have three disabled all these people have passed the information courses, a foreign language course. The senior expert prepares and is 50% higher than the total staff. The only thing many keep in local self-government is a relatively decent salary and relatively stable working hours. One of those two points if it changes these people will leave. It is mostly a woman's labour force thank God, it is a family, parenting, maternal obligation to seek such stability that today in the economy rarely meets or in other businesses. And then I come to the situation of one that is amazing and it is probably in Croatia only of all transition countries and probably also Western Europe and the European Union. Only our unions fight for less pay. The unions did not advocate on the Economic and Social Council for Special Law because they want more wages in local self-government. No, because we're supposed to be terrified of civil servants. Instead of all fighting together, and I think that we all agree, regardless of what we are from local self-government, that people in the state administration should be adequately paid for what they do and for their professional equipment and that there is a whole community, a whole society, we as a parliament must advocate and pressure the government to save in places where we are wasteful and to invest in people and to retain quality people. In our unions and unions, I told them on the working group at the prime minister when we talked about those prices, when she collected water in Zagreb at the price we have been paying in Zagorje for three years, then they voiced that the communals had gone under the clouds. But while we had to gather in Zagorje because we had no other exits, no unionists came forward and said we should protect the citizens and workers in Zagorje and see that the prices of utility, water and so on. When it comes to supporting the law, I will absolutely support it but with the hope that these amendments, which we have proposed by the Committee on Local Self-Government, will be adopted and adopted, which is that the law does not regulate or resolve wages. Names that, in terms of what we talked about, the Academy of Local Servants, means that we can ensure one transfer of human progress, that there are no restrictions, that he came into town to the head, the small town I'm talking about, and that then actually going to the county or to the state service he's not interested in, and that in that way we're mutilating those institutions. So one row and a rank in which it can advance, it means that as much as it is uniformly known. But I'm saying, this pay-determining issue is really getting into local self-government because here, too, good intentions, it says that the road to hell is also filled with good intentions. In particular, in some areas, establishing the basis that is now for civil servants would be a sky jump because we mayors don't take the mayors to determine the amount of salary bills only on fiscal capacity and financial capacity but also on, it used to be called about local opportunities not to bounce from the economy, to school, to craftsmanship because all these voters, all those taxpayers, communal fees and similar sitting behind our necks and immediately react loudly if the city or municipal administration bounces with their salaries relative to their environment. So I repeat, I welcome that we have reached this moment. I hope Mr. Palaric, too, I say we're always looking at the glass in two different ways. He's got a glass half full, for me it's half empty. But that is our position, but I hope that the state office and the government will consider this variant of the need to determine salaries by law by the government. Thank you very much, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13409	Thank you. And a final review on behalf of the promoter, distinguished Antun Palaric, State Secretary of the Central State Administration Office. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13410	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm going to be very brief because the law was mostly supported. The only criticism was today that this law does not regulate at all, so some concern about the reduction of wages in local self-government would endanger autonomy and freedom in local self-government. I wonder if judges and state lawyers are limited in their freedom to work and their salaries are regulated by law? Is the President of the Republic limited in his freedom of pay regulated by law? Are teachers, teachers, teachers, doctors? They're all free, but there's got to be order in the country. We can watch a glass half full or half empty and make it part of the impression. However, when we do a serious job, we prepare seriously in our office. And we ordered a salary analysis in Europe and Croatia to local self-government, carried out an independent body, there was a public tender, the Institute of International Relations received a job in a public competition under the control of the World Bank. And what did we come up with? Only in Croatia are salaries in local self-government above salaries in the state administration. We don't intend to cut wages. Publicly and responsibly, it is not our goal to reduce wages in local self-government. We want to live well in Croatia but we want order. So I thank all those who support the adoption of this law, even in part, because every step forward for the local one is still a step forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13411	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. And that concludes today's session. Tomorrow we start work day at 9.30 p.m. with the 12th agenda Final draft law on areas of special state care, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 117, and in turn on the agenda, with tomorrow we will have a vote on amendments to the rebalancing of the state budget. We're expecting a start around 11 o'clock somewhere. Thank you and have a good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13412	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on Officials and Landowners in the local and regional (regional) self-government, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 80. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Local, Regional (regional) Self-Government, Representative Furio Radin, and the Joint Club of Representatives of National Minorities and the Club of Representatives of the SDSS. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to show up on the amendments. ... Thank you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We're going to make a statement on the amendments. First is the Committee on Local, Regional (regional) Self-Government. Article 1(1), point (b) of Article 79(1),
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13413	It's unacceptable. We believe that these provisions should remain in this law and we believe that the law should regulate and pay in the system of regional and local self-government, so we do not accept the... salary in local self-government should be outside the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13414	Thank you. Mr. Chairman of the Board, Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13415	So I want to say on behalf of the board that this was a condition for the committee to support this bill. Therefore, unless this amendment is accepted, there is no support of the parent body for this law, because it was a prerequisite. This amendment asked us to delete what was introduced overnight into the law, and that is one huge precedent that only in local self-government pay is governed by the law. No other activity in the Republic of Croatia, no other segment of people working in Croatia's salaries are regulated by law. Salaries are arranged by collective agreements. This is therefore a precedent when the government takes the right to propose that salaries are regulated by law in the Republic of Croatia. And I think it's once again one proof of universal centralization and reduction of local self-government autonomy. This will therefore be the first time that wages are not arranged as normally regulated by collective agreements and that employers and trade unions negotiate, but obviously the government on behalf of local self-government will negotiate and determine what kind of wages will be made in local self-government. Since it was a condition, I, on behalf of the board, ask to take on this amendment of vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13416	Thank you. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Article 80, second amendment of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13417	We do not accept for the same reasons, we believe that all salaries financed from public revenue must be arranged in society. If the Parliament could by law arrange the salary of the President of the Republic, the MPs, the government, the judges, in the public services, we feel that we should do this.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13418	Thank you. Mr. Chairman of the Board, Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13419	So follow-up because these two articles are set out. I would accept this, I wouldn't even accept it if it was exactly what you were talking about, because local self-government is a local self-government. Or we decide, so let's have local self-government and let's say we don't have it, we'll just call it that, and all ministers and government will determine on behalf of local self-government. But that would be fine if there was a bill on the salaries of teachers and professors, if there was a law on the salaries of doctors, the law on the salaries of police officers, the law on the salaries of Croatian soldiers, and there will only be in Croatia the Law on the salaries of local officials and tenants. I think you can really and only exist that the Law on the Payments of Representatives, so we now put officials and tenants on the level with MPs. So if this stays in the law, you can take the cookie and delete the "E" on this bill, it is certainly not a law that is consistent with the European acquis. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13420	Thank you. Who is for this amendment to Article 80? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. And third on Article 128 of the same Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13421	We do not accept for the same reasons, noting that in most European countries wages are regulated by law in local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13422	Thank you. Mr. Gristle : Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13423	It doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13424	Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. We move to the amendment of the National Minorities Club and the SDSS Club to the article, first and only to Article 19.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13425	It's partially accepted. The first indent is not accepted, and the other two are accepted in such a way that there would be no misunderstanding. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to read the government's formulation. The amendment would read Article 19: Article 19(9) reads as follows: "(9) The invitation to tender referred to in paragraph 8 of this Article is mandatory to state that the candidates in the application for an invitation to tender are obliged to appeal to this right and that candidates, members of the national minority, have priority over the other candidates only on equal terms."
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13426	Thank you. On behalf of the club... This government formulation has been accepted. Thank you very much. We also finally have Mr. Representative Furi Radin's amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13427	It's unacceptable. There is an obligation for local self-government units to provide a sufficient number of people who know the language and letter of the national minority, but this cannot be an obligation for all who are employed in local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13428	Mr. Representative Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13429	Of course, this amendment doesn't say everyone needs to know, but I'd like to know where there's this obligation for some to know, in what law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-08-0.u13430	Thank you. Are you asking for a vote on the amendment? I'm putting this amendment to Mr Furi Radin's vote that the government does not accept. Somehow it would be good to count it, because I'm not sure it's... Thank you. Against this amendment? Thank you. Abstained? One, as far as I can tell. The amendment was not accepted because 51 MPs voted for, 70 against and 1 abstention. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Officials, the householders in local, regional, regional self-government. Please, let's get involved and vote. I'll get you a score. The law was passed by a majority of votes, 78 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 44 against, together with the amendments accepted. We move to: - Final proposal of the Law on areas of special state care, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 117; Proposer of law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its Rules of Procedure. The emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Lawmaking, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Development and Reconstruction, the Committee on Labour and Social Care, the Committee on Environmental Protection, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. State Secretary Stanko Janic, from the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. Here you go.
