ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3478	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I hope you've rested and we can continue the session of the Parliament. We're moving to the third item of the agenda. - The proposal of the National Programme of Railway Infrastructure for the period 2008 to 2012 was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with Article 29(2) of the proposal of the National Programme. The railroad law. You received the proposal by mail. When adopting a national programme, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Communications, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Bozidar Kalmeta, Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3479	Thank you. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here, let me try to explain in the shortest lines this proposal of the National Programme of Railway Infrastructure for a five-year period which today is under discussion and will then be adopted by the Croatian Parliament and all this in accordance with the Law on Railways adopted in 2003. This is good because this really gives an additional importance to this transport infrastructure as one of the pillars of each country's competitiveness and so does Croatia. And that is why I repeat, it is good for the Croatian Parliament to discuss this and adopt such a document. However, when we talk about rail infrastructure and this National Programme of Railway Infrastructure, we must also say a few words about the railway as one of the very complex and complex systems, but also one too important system for every country in which we are already, I am talking about the railway, in which for several years we have actually been conducting and restructuring and modernising Croatian railways, and all in order to strengthen the rail system as such, its training for business in the conditions of the open market that will inevitably come and that are coming. And that's why restructuring and modernisation are very necessary when we talk about the railroad as a system. All this process that has been under way for several years, practically since the adoption of this law, which was passed in 2003, I repeat, I must say with a very high degree of social dialogue with the social partners and until we practically agree on strategic matters, we are not going to say a step further. So I must really say here that there is one very high degree of this social dialogue between the trade unions operating in Croatian railways and the ministry and in the past few years it has also been done a lot when we talk about restructuring and when we talk about modernisation. I will just point out that, in addition to this law, we have passed four regulations, that in 2005, the Law on the division of Croatian railways was adopted in accordance with the 2003 Law, that in 2006 the Croatian Government's decision on the division of HZ was adopted on four companies and on management or holding, that in 2006 the Ministry prepared a pre-accession strategy for the railway sector and the IPA sector, that in 2007, the Parliament adopted the Law on Safety in Railway Transport and the Law establishing a Railway Market Regulatory Agency which was also a novelty, that in 2007, the Parliament adopted amendments to the Law on Railways and that here in 2007, last year this national programme had been prepared, the Government had adopted it, sent it to the parliamentary procedure. However, because of the choices they were and because of the non-session of the parliament he comes here only now to the constituency benches. In 2005, the working ratio in the railway was reduced from 243 to 220%. In 2006, the employment ratio was reduced from an additional 220 to 190 in 2006 and subsidies were reduced by 230 million kuna compared to 2005 with an increase in investment funds. In 2007, after the division of the Croatian Railways into the four societies I spoke about, the ratio of 190% was maintained. In parallel, it also started to privatise... the companies have completed the privatisation of the railway project society and the redistribution, fire and crucibles or the RVER and the privatisation of railway hospitality and railway buildings and production and regeneration has begun. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I must say that even with these here, these activities are nothing without negotiations, agreements and consent with the trade unions of the Croatian Railways for what I was talking about earlier, which is that we work together on this not easy business of restructuring the Croatian Railways. In parallel and traffic, the number of passengers transported but also the number of tonnes transported from year to year is growing. When we talk about modernization then we must say that here it is only at the moment I will list some investments in Croatian railways that are involved. For example, changes in the system draws on the old river track no matter what we build, practically already activities have begun in this regard a new low-level railway that will connect Zagreb and Rijeka, or further the Hungarian border for which there is a link but another track will be made. It won't be ignored, it won't shut down the old river track, it'll be operational when the other one is. However, here are the practical changes in the system are now being started on the river track, and the investment is somewhere around 500 million kuna. The 10th Corridor, the 5th Corridor, which has been fully remounted, the conclusion of the line, other than those investments in infrastructure, must mention investments in mobile capacities that have been these few years. A new 300 freight wagons were purchased by Djuro Djakovic, therefore, should be mentioned. Fifteen passenger cars have been modernised, the modernisation of ten electric locomotives is under way, the modernisation of ten maneuvering locomotives is under way. A contract for two has been signed and a contract for another electric motor train is being prepared. Preparation of 15 brand-new multi-system locomotives. We know that in the railroad, the last locomotive was purchased twenty-five years ago, maybe more. Now we are preparing a tender for the purchase of fifteen new multi-system locomotives and we are working on the development of the production of eighteen suburban trains whose importance from year to year is increasing. Infrastructure as such is one of the foundations of the clearly Croatian railways. However, I said before that not only by me, but by all research scientific and economic that modern infrastructure is one of the pillars... society, so absolutely Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, if we want to have a more competitive economy, we don't care what kind of infrastructure we transport. And in that sense, I'm not going to repeat my activities in the last 10 years and more about building road construction. I'll mention building I don't know, and modernising practically all the Adriatic ports, but also all the ports of internal navigation. And I will mention a document that has made a high-level European Commission group that predicts that in this area of Southeast Europe where we too are in the next 20 years traffic will increase by over 50%. Here it is explained why it is so, which are reasons, the flows of goods will change, etc., etc. Therefore, Croatia, which is positioned as it is positioned and which can use its infrastructure as an export product. Because in my opinion, the infrastructure could be and should be an export product as well as tourism. And given this projected high level of the 50% traffic increase group, it is clear that Croatia cannot be clumsy, ready and unprepared. On the other hand, around 700 million tonnes of goods pass through the Suez Canal, all three Adriatic ports, including Rijeka, including Trieste and Kopar, come around 10%. The reason is more, but certainly one of the reasons and infrastructures that are not adequate and which is not sufficiently capacitated so that all the goods that would come to Rijeka port can be transferred further to Central Europe. And if we compare only one thing, if that goods that go through the Suez Canal, comes to the Rijeka harbor and has enough capacitated rails and a fast enough rail to transfer all of that, I don't know, to go to Munchen. If the goods go that way, relative to the goods that would go to the North Sea ports, because today it is 90% of the goods, and that goods have come down the same way to Munchen, this variant first, so across the Rijeka port, further for, further to Central Europe is up to 7 days faster and shorter than if it goes to North Sea ports. So, from that predisposition, there is that it happens, and that's what's going to happen because it's against the economy that no one can do. So that's what's gonna happen, but in order for that to happen, we have to be, we have to be ready. And that's why this importance of infrastructure is very important. And that's why the infrastructure, what I said before, is what I said earlier was an export product. The highway cannot replace rail infrastructure when it comes to the economy, when it comes to port development. Because here, I'm going to tell you an example, when this valley railroad is finished then it will take over about 1500 speedboats a day, so that there will be no railways, and if we take the growth and container in Rijeka port, etc., and so on, 1500 speedboats a day would be on this highway from Zagreb to Rijeka, when the railways were gone. When the tracks are, therefore, all these goods will cross and must be moved to that railroad. A few examples of the importance of infrastructure and the importance of this document that we will bring today for the future and development, and the development and positioning of Croatia in that part. This document, which we are going to discuss here today, is the first such document to be adopted for the railway infrastructure area and will certainly be regulated for a long, lasting and long term by this system of planning and implementing investment in railway infrastructure. He won't deal with it, five-year plan, and he doesn't have to have the illusion that he'll get rid of it, so he can deal with it. This first five-year plan, and it's good that, if we were to go into it, it's good that, when the law was passed that way, I don't repeat what I said at the beginning, but after this five-year plan, it's certainly going to have to come up with a few more such plans to make the rail infrastructure that would for years, I'd say, for decades, stagnated, in which, practically, up to the back of the last 4.5 years, there's nothing more significant invested and that in the Homeland War was both destroyed and destroyed, which was abandoned further while it was, while parts of the railroad were under occupation, etc., etc. So she's really, she's finding herself in a bad state. And to bring it into one state as we need it and what Croatia needs, and regarding this projection that I was talking about earlier, it will certainly take several such five-year plans to do so. So this is the first such document and I think it's important to say. And it is a fundamental framework of a document that sets out development priorities, it sets priorities for construction, modernisation, renovation, maintenance, etc., etc. As such, the programme includes general some of the general characteristics and conditions of the railway infrastructure system in the Republic of Croatia as it is today, the general strategy for building up and maintaining the rail infrastructure, development component, defining the structure, dynamics and means of providing financial resources for the realization of activities drawn up by this national programme. A basic concept of this national programme is based on the status of railway infrastructure as a public good in general use owned by the Republic of Croatia. It is based on the strategy of the transport development of the Republic of Croatia, based on the regulation of the European Union relating to the rail system, based on a further policy for the development of corridor networks of interest and this transport area and is based on the development of environmentally sustainable transport. The criteria for investing in this infrastructure and setting priorities depended, clearly, on the technical situation and on the technical state of certain infrastructure resources, depending on the meaning of the individual railways. Because we know that the railways in Croatia are classified according to the importance of the railways of international importance, that they are classified on tracks of importance for regional transport and on railways of importance for local transport. The planned investment, as you can see in this document, in the modernisation and construction of railway infrastructure, and the cost of maintaining the management of rail infrastructure and transport between 2008 and 2012, therefore, for 5 years, amounts to around 18 billion and 54 million kuna. It's, it's potentially as it says here, potentially available funds. It's hard to predict this moment how much it's really going to be because it's going to be a competition, it's going to have to do it all together, so what it's going to be and how it's going to be exactly, we're just going to see, but potentially available funds are in this amount that it says here. It also says that the main source will be the state budget. When I say the state budget there is meant to be the state budget funds but also the guarantees the state budget will give. So it doesn't say it, but it can be done, it implies one another. Certainly significant funds are planned from pre-accession funds. We've been here quite conservatively, I have to say. And so I am already convinced today that these funds from the pre-accession funds and the European Union's accession funds will be much, much bigger than they are planned here. Of course, there are also other types of financial resources that will emerge in the coming period and make up the state budget for this item here. With this national program, I've said something before, but I'll repeat because I think it's important that for the first time in decades, a cycle of construction of new railways, a process of systematic modernisation of existing railways, which includes one cycle of remonts and all that is going on. The tables are written and you can see what this is all about to build, there's no need for me to read it here now because at the end of the day you all have this document, so it's not necessary, however, except for these concrete investments in the railway infrastructure, which is of course the most important thing that this document brings here is also a whole series of other processes that are very important for the railway. For example, the problem of local railway lines, the problem of rail-road crossings, the problem of fire protection along railway lines. The problem of forming an infrastructure belt along railway lines and so on. This national programme creates preconditions for more intensive development and urban and suburban transport, especially in 4 of our largest cities. I mean Zagreb, Split, Rijeka and Osijek. And certainly this national programme provides for intensive resolution of the specific current problems of rail and road crossings in the Republic of Croatia. Based on this national programme, the infrastructure manager is thus foreseen by law, with the agreement of the minister to plan for the construction and maintenance of infrastructure, to modernise infrastructure. This will make it clear on the principles of continuous planning whose production clearly must be in line with the deadlines for the construction and adoption of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, and in the phase of the preparation of the national programme detailed images of the characteristics and condition of the existing infrastructure have been made which, unfortunately, was not in the Croatian Railways. This is, in fact, one of the bases today, and a basis has been created, which actually began the formation of a railway infrastructure register. So this national programme is due to the need for its adoption and in the function of creating it was created and started... and the register of railway infrastructure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This national programme here will ensure, especially for people who will come behind it, the conditions for resolving the problem of the local railways will certainly be ensured and in the moderations... the importance, roles and scope of transport on certain railways, which is a problem for itself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And certainly by investing these significant in the national programme, the national infrastructure programme will stop one drop in the functional capacity of railway infrastructure. It will be in a position to meet the requirements of the railway operator, the safety of transport, the conditions of the open market, the rail services and so on. This is, this is one, and I will complete with this document which, I repeat, is what he said at the beginning and I will now and with that I will conclude which is very complex and which is good that he came to the Croatian Parliament because this opens a serious debate in the Croatian Railways. Because there were various opinions whether Croatian railways needed at all, should they not? For some, they're just a problem. They're not for me, for example. For me, I said that before one of the pillars of each country's competitiveness and so did Croatia, and it is good that one such document comes to the Parliament. It's a good thing he's being discussed. We will listen carefully to all the discussions, all the remarks, everything that happens in terms of improving this programme. Be assured that we will accept and that we will then and with this additionally energise this programme, the five-year programme of construction, maintenance, modernisation of the railway infrastructure in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3480	I thank Minister Calmetti. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3481	Minister Kalmeta said this is the first strategic document on railways which is not true because the parliament adopted a strategy for restructuring and modernisation of Croatian railways for the period 2003-2007. Unfortunately, that's all that's left on paper. Much of it is prescribed in this strategic plan as well. And I'm afraid there's a similar fate coming to this plan because you didn't say at any point when the railroad would be ready? You kept saying "when the track is finished then we will have it." So I'm asking you in your next address to tell me when the 5B corridor will be ready? So when are we going to be able to have this as an export product of 5B corridor infrastructure here in Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3482	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? Mr. Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3483	Mr. Vice President, ministers, secretaries and assistants, colleagues and colleagues. On 1 February, the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal of the National Programme of Railway Infrastructure for the period 2008 to 2012 submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Parliament. The Committee discussed the proposal of the National Railway Infrastructure Programme as a home working body and in accordance with the provisions of Article 89. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The opening statement was given by the President of the Proposer, who pointed out that this proposal is an important document for the economy of the Republic of Croatia. As a result, the railway infrastructure along with the Croatian ports should be a skeleton of the economic progress of the Republic of Croatia. The trans-European network and pan-European corridors have been set up so that there are several parallel directions that can meet the same traffic requirements. Therefore, rail transport routes in Croatia, along road transport and other modes of traffic, have competition in the rail corridors of neighbouring countries as well as beyond. And therefore, it is of great importance to invest in the construction, construction, modernisation of the main railway lines on the territory of the Republic of Croatia in a timely manner. The development of rail infrastructure must be a function of the country's sustainable and balanced development and its integration into the European Union's common market. He also pointed out that the railway lines in the Republic of Croatia are classified on railway lines of importance for international traffic, then regional transport and railways from local traffic. The debate raised a question of protection of national interest in rail transport against non-erable railways and rail infrastructure for local needs, and given the significant investments we will have through this programme on international lines. It has been pointed out that a system of subsidies is not fully developed where local self-government should also be activated. The issue of investment in railway development Zabok – Varazdin, Savski Marof – Kumrovec, i.e. whether the amount of 10 million kuna provided for 2008 will be sufficient. It is pointed out that, regardless of the gravity given to the construction of the river river railway, the necessary resources should also be provided and the existing railway on which the freight traffic for Rijeka Port is now being managed. In particular, it is stressed that it is necessary to make sure that funds are provided for both the modernisation of freight and passenger transport. As a result, existing capacities are uncompetitive. The opinion is highlighted that the programme has been set conservatively in view of the EU's investment plan. After the debate was held, the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament unanimously proposed to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the National Programme of Railway Infrastructure for the period 2008 to 2012.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3484	Thank you. Does anyone else, the committee reporter, want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you. We're going to a club debate. I'm opening a debate. The first club is Club SDSS representative Ratko Gajica. He's gone? He's losing his right to debate. The SDP Club is a respected representative of Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3485	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club considers that the document, proposed by the National Railway Infrastructure Programme, for the period 2008 to 2012 should be returned to completion. And I'm going to try to explain on behalf of the club why we feel it's necessary to get the document back to work. In the introduction, the promoter points out that it is the rail transport in Croatia that has a sharp competition in road transport. But also very sharp competition in rail systems in the immediate environment. Therefore, the competitiveness of Croatian railways and rail systems must be very high in order to maintain this marked competitiveness. Why? Because both the Government and this Parliament have assessed that rail transport is of interest to the Republic of Croatia, but also of interest to the entire Croatian economy. Therefore, investment in the rail infrastructure system is what means the responsibility of all of us, both the Government and the Croatian Parliament. In this material, we can read very critical assessments of the current situation, which is that the railway infrastructure is inappropriate, depreciated, depreciated, derelict, which means in battle for the competitiveness of the present state means defeat. We need to change this current situation. What levels on international corridors do we have to achieve? In new railroads that we'll be building two-way traffic at 200 to 250 km. In the systems we are also building up a two-way system with speeds of 160 to 200 km. Such standards mean one-off investment in rail infrastructure. And now we're going back to what's important. What time? And of course, there are two problems. If, in a short time, the existing unacceptable situation for the fight against Croatian competitiveness for traffic routes is changed into the requirements needed on international traffic routes we need to invest in a short period of time. For a short time, it means huge resources, huge activity, huge investment responsibility on those who will invest those funds. And there remains always the problem of fiscal capacity and sustainability of the development of the Republic of Croatia. We estimate that this document, which is ahead of us, has not well assessed both fiscal capacity and sustainability of development. Why? So I suggest that this document is the first five-year plan, and it says three to four more mid-term programmes follow. Which means we can expect that now the standards set in European and international directions will succeed in about 15 to 20 years. Before that, we will not be able to cope with the competition of railway lines in the immediate environment and with road traffic. And that's the biggest problem of this document. It is the backbone of our debate in the Croatian Parliament. Whether the battle for competition on rail infrastructure should be assessed for at least 20 years or whether it should be done in two medium-term programmes, two medium-term programmes. If we fail, it is evident that we will not be competitive in traffic. It is evident that Croatian railways will not function as a burden increase in our seaports. It is evident that both goods and passengers will bypass us with more competitive rail infrastructures and that is why the SDP believes that the document should be returned first of all to analyse whether after 20 years we will be qualified for such speeds, for these standards on rail infrastructure we will still be competitive. Is rail traffic gonna drag us away from road traffic? Whether transport and passengers and goods will draw away neighbouring countries that do not need such enormous investments. And of course there are the studies we need, which is the amount of traffic? Which corridors? What's that amount of passengers? What are the dangerous loads that carry a lot so they can be used for rail traffic? What are the modern transport systems that will have huge support from specific European funds anyway? These are the analyses we need to decide whether to invest in infrastructure in 5, 10 or 20 years. If we do not have these documents, if we do not have these proportions to bring this programme, it means that the Croatian railway infrastructure, the railway infrastructure will not be in the function of European corridors, but the traffic will go either on the road or on some neighbouring countries. So maybe the club will back up this basic argument dilemma, then we'll go back to cash flows. The five-year program means 18 billion kunas, huge money. But when we enter the analysis given to us in this document, we can see. In that analysis, we see 18 billion 5.4 billion going to system maintenance, means wages, at cost, to the functioning of the railway infrastructure. So it's no longer investment in railroads and maintaining modernisation and building 18 billion than just 12.6 billion. And then if we look at those 12.6 billion what do we see? 7.7 billion go into maintenance and modernisation, and only 4.9 in the construction of new railways. In five years, 4.9 it is evident that we will not be able to achieve standards that apply to the pan-European corridors. Maybe... let's try to say that even in physical indicators. When we look at these numbers and turn them into kilometers, then we'll see about building new railways a year for 20 kilometers and for modernizing 60 kilometers. So we're investing in a total of 18 billion, and we're going to get as many new lines as possible 80 kilometers a year, and then there's the answer, it takes 20 years for the rail infrastructure system to somehow get closer to European standards. It's something we find really unacceptable. The rail infrastructure will not be in Europe's goods flows and passenger flows, and that is the part why we think that added analysis needs to see the possibilities, and what we need to do in order to break that 20-year period in half. And it may also be noted that when we talk about the sources of 18 billion resources, 16 billion is the state budget and we understand the limit because simply where to find additional funds, because one billion money from European access funds is too little, one billion of some unidentified income, but remains the basic one. If they are indeed goods and passengers will be present and for this we need an analysis which is the amount of goods and passengers over the next 10 years, but then must also be a significant revenue from tariffs for the use of that infrastructure. Therefore, tariffs must be expressed in higher revenues, and therefore this means that the system and costs of the 5 billion system shown over the next five years would at least cover myself and that a far greater amount could go to investment in new railways and the rest. Of course, the battle to correct the situation on European corridors has resulted in a single regional I would say railway, one of local importance, so there will be a lot of dissatisfaction with this document when we turn to local self-government units or regional self-government because they don't see, long-awaited means of raising at 40, 50 kilometers on the railroad anyway, because this document does not allow. Of course, when we talk about important port seats, then the main problem is that only the modernisation of certain railways requires by this document for the next four years of investment, which is an increasingly long deadline for a significant increase in burdens. And let us point out another problem on behalf of the club. Here we are talking about infrastructure, here we are talking about how we are racing to make our railways competitive with Europeans and of course the biggest problem is the Croatian carrier, Croatian railways, meaning freight transport, passenger transport, modernisation. Data that say tow vehicles are over 22 years old, passenger freight wagons over 30 years old, hence our carrier who, in order to carry passengers and goods through these corridors, is looking for huge investments. These are now companies on the market, for which year and fully liberalised traffic on our tracks, means less and less opportunities to help the Croatian government and the Croatian state in the battle for the competitiveness of our carrier. And of course that is our responsibility, when we will make a decision on the restructuring of the Croatian carrier. Because through restructuring, it's still possible to put part of the money into modernization. Four years ago, the government had no means of serious modernisation procedures. When we talk about serious modernization procedures, it doesn't mean maintenance of the system that was done in the last four years. Of course the basic problem, where to find the means to modernise Croatian railways. Insufficient resources for infrastructure, and the basic problem if we build the infrastructure will be run by European carriers, and there will be no place for Croatian railways. These are serious problems in front of the applicant, this is the problem of sustainable development and limited resources, given the low growth rate. But this is also a particular challenge where the SDP considers it an opportunity to boost economic growth in the Republic of Croatia. It is an opportunity that many companies related to Croatian railways, related to rail infrastructure with more ambitious programmes that are necessary, are not just a wish, it is a necessity, it will provide an opportunity for these companies to enable themselves to be competitive, enable themselves to be successful in Croatian investments and can then go out into the external markets. And that's why the SDP proposal is back to work, let's give the elements that we can assess whether the programme can be implemented in just two medium-term programmes. In this regard, the SDP also proposed additional conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3486	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3487	Honorable Vice President, Your Honor! I think that MP Linic would disagree with his allegations that of 18 billion as he said the funds that will go into the modernisation of the railway, 5 will be used to maintain or pay employees etc. I think that means a lot to modernize and maintain and build existing railways. So I wouldn't agree that in fact, there will be only 13 billion left, but also those funds for employees' salaries are actually entering that railroad modernisation system.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3488	The club of representatives of the CNS, the esteemed representative of Željko Vincelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3489	Dear Vice President, Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs! The Croatian People's Party believes that the National Programme for the Construction and Maintenance of Railway Infrastructure from 2008 to 2012 represents a step forward and a whole new phase in the development of the Croatian Transport System. Namely, after most of the funds for capital transport investments have been placed in the construction of highways Zagreb-Split and Zagreb-Rijeka the focus of investments is transferred from road construction to railways. We know that investment in rail infrastructure has been neglected. The last new railways were built in Croatia 40 years ago. The fact is that investment in rail infrastructure in the full sense of the word represents an investment in economic development and, of course, in improving the living standard of the population. Two of the most important projects within the national programme will be two lines of exceptional importance for Croatia. The first project is already the existing Sava Marof-Zagreb-Tovarnik railway that connects the west with the east of Croatia at the border with Serbia. Since it is already an existing railway that follows the tenth pan-European transport corridor as the dominant European route from Austria to Greece, it will be carried out in the next few years by a large remont of the trackway, installation of telecommunications and infrastructures and a system of remote traffic management. Another major project is the railway that follows Pan-European Corridor 5B, and it is about connecting Botovo in northern Croatia near the border with Hungary via Zagreb with Rijeka. In part from Botov to Zagreb, a complete remont of the existing track will be performed on an existing track and a second rail track will be built on individual sections. And the most extensive railway undertaking in the section will be the construction of a brand-new Zagreb-Rijeka railway line. About the current railway built in 1873 from the Hungarian border to Rijeka by the freight train takes ten hours. With the new double track, the freight train will cross the road in just five hours with a five-fold increase in the freight capacity of the railway. This railway will, of course, further improve passenger transport. It will allow passenger trains to drive a few times faster by now. For example, the journey from Zagreb to Rijeka will take an hour. Two of the most important directions will have its real value in increasing Croatia's competitiveness in the transport of goods, i.e. the integration of eastern remote and overseas countries with Central Europe. However, the Croatian People's Party also has some observations in this programme. First. The program is worth 18 billion kuna, and it was processed to us as 70 percent. in the part of the renovation and modernisation of existing railways, the construction of several new railways, but there remains 5.4 billion beware, not millions but 5.4 billion for the maintenance and management of rail infrastructure and traffic. We would like to believe that it is only an accidental failure of the designers of the national programme, but you must understand our desire to get closer to this part of the business cost of Croatian railways because these are current, operational... But we have very important activities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Local delivery procedures, station arrangements, attitudes and so on, but not less important for the local population. Second. We cannot conclude from the programme that after a five-year period, the safety of transport will be significantly increased in part of the responsibility of the Croatian Railways and these are the devices for ensuring railway and pedestrian crossings, as they have the most accidents with the most dead. In 2006, 80 accidents with 17 deaths. We estimate it's cca. 70% of railway and pedestrian crossings or about a thousand of them have no insurance devices but only traffic warning signs. The program would be worth about 900 million kuna in our assessment. Many, but it must be a Croatian priority because no human life has a price. Third. We have a fact that given the permanence and technical safety of the upper line structure, we can normally or reinforcedly maintain less than half of the total length of the track. On all others, it is necessary to do investment works or to close the railways for transport. We cannot see from the program whether or not it will be railways during an observed period that we will not manage to maintain or invest normally or in modernisation, so it will be closed for transport. Fourth. The programme should provide for some necessary procedures from both international and regional points of view. These are the following procedures. For Zagreb's hub, no sufficient funds are provided for the reconstruction of the Zagreb Main Station whose capacities are too small to meet the growing needs of rail transport as well as the means to build a technical and passenger station in Borongaj, which would charge the main station itself, which would significantly improve the quality of transport services. Then, the funds for the construction of the second track between Zagreb and Sisak should be provided, as there is a need for an increasing number of passenger and freight trains. Then, the means of electricity and remonting so-called power should be provided. Zagreb ring or railway Zagreb-Zabok-Varaždin-Koprivnica-Zagreb. In this way, we would improve the travel of employees and those who are educated and who travel daily to work and school in Zagreb and reduce their permanent migration to the capital. Then, the funds should be provided and more attention should be paid to suburban transport in major cities such as Split, Osijek, Vinkovci as the need for this increases from day to day according to all indicators. And the construction of the Zagreb-Rijek railway will not achieve an iron effect unless a complete reconstruction of the river hub is made. Fifthly, the program does not pay enough attention to the maintenance and modernisation of the so-called ". local railways which have exceptional importance for the local economy and the population used by it. These projects can, with relatively small or smaller investments, gain significantly greater effects than some projects on the so-called so-called project. They should therefore be given much greater importance in this programme. Of course, the question arises where additional money is needed to finance these additional requirements. Part of the privatisation of some of the accompanying activities of the Croatian Railways, but most of it requires much greater effort and the minister mentioned the use of the European Union funds. We cannot allow such a project that is significant to us but certainly also to Europe to be financed with only 6% of the money from the European Union funds one of 18 billion. In the context of the local railways, I will remain in my northwestern part of Croatia, in Croatia, in the county which is the Croatian door towards Europe but the Croatian People's Party does not recognise it in this national programme. Croatian railways do not open a large and smaller door for Krapina-Zagorje County with the European Union. First, the 10th pan-European corridor has an existing section of corridor 10A Graz-Maribor-Zidani bridge which, according to the established strategy of traffic development of Croatia from 99th year, was to be completed in the period from 2006 to 2010 in the form of the construction of the new connection line Zagreb-Zabok-Krapina-Maribor. The Krapina-Zagorje County, of course, has included the railway in its spatial plan in the sequence of state interest shown for this and the definitions. In this programme, however, on page 4, it is stressed that the interest of the Republic of Croatia to include the route of this railway in international traffic routes. On page 13, the programme reiterates the importance of this interest of the Republic of Croatia but in practical implementation over the next twenty years. So, ten years ago, we said we needed that railroad and today it was supposed to be in construction and now it's falling out of the current programme by 2012. I know that the promoter will say that we're not doing anything with Slovenians lately, but we can't go with our first neighbours for a whole decade on those projects that life and development mean to them as well as to us. I mentioned the strategic importance of the 10th pan-European corridor. This addition of its 10A branch has broad international but certainly regional transport significance. It's those big, but regional railway doors in Europe. Second, the first smaller door of Zagorje with Europe is the Zagreb-Zaprešić-Zabok-Krapina-Đurmanec-Rogatec-Slovenian railway. This door is now closed and this program doesn't open it. It is commendable that this programme finally envisions the electrification of the railway section from Zapresic to Zabok, but it had to experience electricity to Krapina as a county centre in the context of this mentioned international branch. From Krapina to Slovenia but only halfway to Đurmanac because further to Slovenia, the railway is dead to drive the poor Zagorje zug at the highest speed of 20 km and the axle load of 16 tonnes per axle. This condition caused the time of travel from Krapina to Đurmanca 4.8 kilometers from 17 minutes. Here, you'll allow me a little distance. By the time I was 90, I was active in running marathons, a few dozen competing marathons and about a hundred thousand miles running. My best time for five kilometers is somewhere above 16 minutes. So, I'd leave my zug up to the Đurmanca about 400 meters behind if we were going to race up. This situation led to the inability to connect the Đurmanec municipality with trains and the complete exclusion of the municipality of Hum na Sutla, which I particularly emphasise from the rail transport system, given that in Huma at the Sutli factory of glass "Vetroak", this is the strongest industrial centre in the county that makes large quantities of raw materials and finished products suitable for rail transport is highly interested in the reconstruction of this railway and realisation of this project. Third, the second smaller railway door of Zagorje with Europe is the Sava Marof-Kumrovec-State border and in our county is 17 kilometers long. It's a traffic jam. Here, Zagorje specialities have recently been, the suspension of railway transport. It was suspended in 2000 due to the poor condition of the stock that has not been remounted and even at lower speeds, traffic safety has been compromised. Classic proof that it's better to prevent than treat. The profession says the reconstruction of the railway began but stopped again because of unresolved relations with Slovenians. The profession says only the prime ministers of Croatia and Slovenia can resolve this, so we call on you to do so, noting that only the shares of Kumrovec are listed in the programme. What about the rest of the state border? Fourthly, the programme also lists the 485 million kuna rail hub modernisation project, which provides for investments in urban and suburban transport in the context of planned modernisation and electrification of the Zaprešić-Zabok railway line, as well as modernising the smaller part of the extension to Stubički Toplice, which could make this part of Zagreb's suburban transport. This would allow for the strong tourist development of beautiful Zagorje with the unequivocal interest of the Croatian capital. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3490	Thank you very much. In front of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, Mr. Ivan Vukic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3491	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The adoption of the National Programme of Railway Infrastructure has a great meaning for the railway system in the Republic of Croatia as a whole, especially the railway infrastructure. Because this is the first, whole medium-term programme to be implemented at a high political level in independent Croatia and which is the basis for the future sustainable development of the railway in our areas. The programme, which spoke before me, said it was passed a few years ago, was not a national programme, but was only a programme for the development of Croatian railways. National railway infrastructure programme for the period 2008/12 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on Railways, which adopted this High House and constitutes a fundamental document which sets out priorities for building, modernising, rebuilding and maintaining railway infrastructure, infrastructure system. Ladies and gentlemen, the territory of Croatia has not been built in the past 40 years. The existing rail infrastructure, due to the lack of investment, has continued and has been technologically lagging compared to the same infrastructure in the permanent members of the European Union. During the period since Croatia's independence during the war years, rail infrastructure has suffered major damage. And at the age of ten, she had other priorities, and the railroad was invested as much as possible. First of all, in rebuilding and restoring traffic on railways that were destroyed in the war, and for stabilising the situation... as the most significant railways for international and internal transport. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The adoption of a national programme will allow the start of a new period for rail infrastructure after a long series of years of stagnation and great difficulties in trying to keep it in a safe transport function. In achieving the programme of reconstruction and modernisation of existing railway infrastructure, this means increasing the intensity of the implementation of the remonts and the modernisation of the permanent railway lines around 500 km, and reconstruction of the station and the position, implementation of changes in the electrical pulley system and... The track and implementation of the renovation of the modernisation... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] and telecommunications devices and equipment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Achieving the programme of building existing, building new railway infrastructure, this means the start of activities on a very demanding second track construction project and the construction of new railways in section 5d, PAN of the European Corridor, the state borders of Koprivnica-Zagreb-Karlovac-Rijek, as well as the inclusion and resolution of the problems of railway hubs in the wider area of Zagreb and Rijeka, as well as the construction of new railways of importance for local transport. Speaking of the importance of railways on local traffic, we know that the roads are divided into five categories, we have highways, state roads, county roads, local roads and no road class. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to be aware that, and in the railway category, we have three categories: international, regional and local. We also have industrial colossals. And a lot of fellow MPs have given importance to local railways in their debate. We need to be aware that this is the National Programme for the Construction of Railway Infrastructure, that the units of local self-government, cities and municipalities, as well as the county will have to be included in the construction, local, county roads, unclassified roads and construction of local railways, a railway of interest for the economy. Because the national program can't stop all the tracks. Also, we have industrial colossals. Nowhere, Mr. Lesar, does it say in the law that industrial colossals must only be within a circle of the factory, that it can only be 100, 200 meters. In the world, it is known in Europe that the industrial colossals maintained by the economy are 20, 30km long. And that's also our future, I see you're commenting, so here, if I'm wrong, I apologize. Excuse me. The effects of the planned activities will be visible only in the next period, when full projects are completed and the result should be a completely new transport offer to increase rail capacity and transport opportunities which would greatly increase the importance of the Croatian railway infrastructure in the wider region. This programme also defines financial resources for the maintenance of railway infrastructure, as well as for the management of railway infrastructure, transport, and includes funds for works on the maintenance of railway infrastructure, control of the regularity of railway infrastructure, employee costs, material and immaterial costs, etc. Of course it's a good thing you're here in the National Programme. Because without restoring human resources, without restoring people, without restoring personnel, investing in personnel, infrastructure, people's infrastructure certainly don't have a new railway system in the National Programme. The rail infrastructure system covers 2722 km of railway lines, i.e. 2976 km... , open railways and 1121 km of stationary and other parallel trackways with belonging devices and equipment to be maintained for safe transport in accordance with applicable regulations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Moreover, the regulation of rail transport on the railway network must be carried out in accordance with the applicable rules. National railway infrastructure programme 2008/12. Total investment of 18 billion kuna, of which 5.4 billion kuna for maintenance, as well as rail infrastructure and transport management, is foreseen. 7.7 billion kuna for reconstruction and modernisation programmes of existing railway infrastructures, 4.9 billion kuna for the construction of existing, construction of new railway infrastructure, and total investment in rail infrastructure is 2.7 times higher compared to the last medium-term period. Ladies and gentlemen, we are aware that this investment during this period of 8 to 12 years will not end the national programme, that it will last as long as the reconstruction and construction of Croatian roads, Croatian highways 2, 3 medium-term periods. But we are also aware that by building it we will be proud, just as we are proud of building our highways. I'm sure it's... The system of connecting all carriers our future in the second medium term, that we are not interested as consumers in who is transporting us, but we must build a system from consumers, from producers to consumers, and that the next medium-term plan will certainly cover it, that we will now, with this plan, work on informing the integration of all systems and that in the second medium-term plan, it will all end with one construction of Kargo center in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, I hope in central Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3492	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Calmeta.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3493	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's a very short answer to some of the questions I've been asked, the esteemed Mr. Mršić. When I said this was the first program, I thought and so I said this was the first program. That this is the first national programme for maintaining the construction of infrastructure in the Croatian Railways and this is the first programme for maintaining and building infrastructure in the Croatian Railways. What you were talking about is the same thing, but it was a company restructuring program. So that's two different things. This is the first document to come to the Parliament. I repeat, it is good to come to the Parliament because from these debates so far, the SDP Club and the Club, and the clubs that spoke after HNS and HDZ, indeed, it is good to see that this programme has come to discuss it and that this is a really strong step in what we must do. And I agree that, and I agree that maybe we should get rid of everything in five years. But it's hard to solve in 5 years either in 6 or 7 what hasn't been solved for years and what we are and I've talked about it before that I don't repeat what I've been through, and my Calvary and the Homeland War, and so on and so on. And what it is, it's in the situation it's in. We planned this program and we propose it to the Croatian Parliament because we believe it is real. It is realistic that in 5 years 18 and a half billion are installed in Croatian railways, in the infrastructure of the Croatian Railways, and we think it will definitely need another such programme. I used to say that maybe more, but we also believe that in another program, we will solve it, or that through 2 programs, it will solve it together. But already with this first programme, Croatian railways or infrastructure will function as corridors, European corridors that matter to us and which are important to us. So the larger the realisation, the realisation of this. This program has it exactly 5 and a half, 5 and a half billion to maintain and manage traffic. But there are salaries and it's a legal obligation but it's not just pay. There's also infrastructure maintenance funds. So it's not true that all 5 billion is for wages. There are salaries and maintenance systems. So maintaining the system and managing that system is what I said before the legal, legal obligation. And these 12 and a half billion, which my colleague Linic spoke of, the 12 and a half billion, are again divided into 7.7 billion, which are for capital remonts. They're not remonts, they're capital remonts. You know when a capital remont is made that it's practically a new rail or a new track, when one remont is made such or some road section that it's practically a new road. In railways, too, perhaps even more pronounced. It's a capital 7.7 billion for capital remonts and 4.9 billion for new railroads. If we turn that into numbers, then it's 50km of new railways a year, not 20, as counterpart Linic said, but 50km. So far, it's been three miles. And when we talk about the remont, then it's 90 kilometers of capital refurbished to say the railroads annually. So far, it's been about 50 miles somewhere. So that's it and that's the figures with us significantly increasing both investment and local railways. We can ask a question, we can even agree about it that even local, local self-government units should be involved in it, but so far it's not foreseen here. And don't forget what I started out with. A low-level railway is projected to be ready in 2013. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3494	Thank you, Minister. On behalf of the IDS Club, representative of Mr Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3495	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. We don't have to race a train that runs faster than our colleague Vincek Zeljko does, but I think this comparison is simply a paradigm of our moment. We just have to race with time at this point. And the biggest weight in that race with that time will be this budget that was discussed yesterday, which will be adopted in a few days. We're going to split 120 billion kunas without actually knowing priorities. This programme, the national railway infrastructure programme for the period from 2008 to 2012, let's go if nothing else speaks of some time, but in that time everything is very, very modest. I wouldn't have started that way if it hadn't been for Mr. Vukic Ivan, and later, the minister said that they hadn't noticed that with their resources and local self-government they should be involved in modernising, building or not knowing what the maintenance of these railway infrastructure systems is. So 20 Croatian counties currently in the Republic of Croatia have an annual income of 3 billion kuna. When we divide it into 20, it's about 150 million kuna per county a year. Well, that's not enough for those railroads, for the schools they have there, for the roads, for the hospitals. It's actually a naked vegetation, and we unless we reform the state in that financial sense, but also about the authority of local self-government already today and the next day in 5 years, this country will look like the railroads to us now. But we're going in a row now. On page 1, it is literally said that the planned investment, modernisation, construction and costs for maintaining railway infrastructure from 2008 to 2012 amounted to an indicative amount of 18.05 billion kuna. Respective money. But now move on. As Mr Linic said in the development programmes, the modernisation of construction was planned at 15.6 billion kuna, of which 7.71 billion kuna or 59% refer to modernisation programmes and 4.93 billion kuna or 41% to construction of new railways and tracks. The maintenance costs, together with infrastructure management costs, are planned at €5.42 billion. The sources of funding for the implementation of this national programme are planned with the following structure; 15.99 billion 88.1% from the State budget. 1.06 billion or 5.8% of the pre-accession funds of the European Union and 1 billion kuna or 5.5% of other sources. Done means quote. Now let's move on. Of these 18.05 billion kuna, no kuna in this national programme will be spent in the County of Istria. True, there or at my place in Istria until '90 or '91. Don't catch me by the word of the Istrian railways. They were part of the Slovenian railways. Then clearly we all lived together in Yugoslavia, SFRY, the war begins. '92. The republics gained statehood and it was normal for Istrian railways, my God, to be drawn under the patronate or under the patrons of Ljubljana and since '91. Or '92. the years are integrated into the Croatian Railways system. But what do you say? While Ljubljana took care of these railways in Istria, there was something else. Zagreb, not counting one festival six, seven years ago for the 120th anniversary of the Istrian railways built by Austria-Hungarian or Austria. In these railways, our country has not invested a single kuna to this day. And that's just embarrassing, but gentlemen, that's right. So, the Croatian state has not invested a single kuna in these railways in the County of Istria. Now that we're building this new railroad and it's soon if it hasn't already gone from Zadar to Bibini, wouldn't it? Not yet, but he'll be on his way soon, won't he, Minister? He won't. With three, four kilometers of a new tunnel, etc. What am I in favour of absolutely, and that's included in this programme because both Minister Kalmeta and Secretary of State Livakovic from Zadar are probably, right? Istrian railways with Zagreb, i.e. The river connects through Ljubljana and it is a shame. For example, when someone gets on a train in Pula and now wants to get to Rijeka or Zagreb, then they take him to Lupoglav on that train, so he leaves on the bus, and then he goes through Učka with that corridor to Rijeka. Then he gets back on the train and I don't know how many days he's in Zagreb. Still there is Bishop Dobrila, Retired, National Enlightener. He stood at the Austrian court or emperor for Pula – Pazin – Rijeka via Učka, but it did not go sadly for him either, or Josip Broz Tito, and it seems that he will not go after Eve Sanader, regardless of the worst of all of us in the last election campaign, he stood up for the construction of Učka or Cicaria tunnels. In these tables beyond the 21st, no kuna is intended for the so-called “. ” Istrian railroads. And then I'm really asking myself why is that? It's like someone's treating us today that we don't know a part of another country, and how familiar you are there in '43. Thanks to the Partisan movement and Joseph Broz Tito, etc. However, this space is incorporated into the territorial corps of the Croatian people, i.e. that of the Slovenian people. And finally, in that state budget per capita, I dare say that again the most in that state budget are the residents of those areas that I come from, so let's say yesterday I spoke but now I'm going to say the exact data. The export of Istria County for last year is a billion 231m dollar, the Primorje-Gorski County, which has 100,000 inhabitants more than half the $579m, Zadar 215m. And I'm sure Zadar gets six times as much money from the County of Istria. Dubrovnik $43.5 million. Why am I doing this? Because it is impossible for those who, among other things, have the state money, and in that budget, the money of that citizen from the County of Istria realize that the time has come to start building a train tunnel through Učka. Not for Istria, but for Croatia. That's the point. Istria may even be able to do without that tunnel, but Croatia can't wait any longer. First of all, the position of the Rijeka port after the merger of the ports Kopar and Trieste. And secondly, if that tunnel is built, and the investment is about a billion and 500 million kuna, 150 million euros which should not again be some unattainable money Croatia can attract a good portion of the burden from Barcelona through France, this southern part of northern Italy to Slovenia further over the river for Zagreb that will go to Hungary, Slovakia, Ukraine and so on. This would make Zagreb the number one railway centre in that part of Europe, and thus the geostrategic position of Croatia would be even stronger than it would be even stronger if the construction of a pipeline across this country towards Slovenia and Trieste etc. Who told me about this for the first time? This story was told to me by a Slovenian engineer, Mr. Skok, from Nova Gorica. It was there back in 2001, 2002. He drew all those paths, explained everything else what it really meant. Even then there was no understanding in that government, no understanding of the odds today. And that's the problem. And on the other hand, we know that this low-level railway from the Hungarian border across Zagreb, Karlovac, I don't know the Gorski kotar down to Rijeka, and that there are no tunnels in this 8 billion kuna project through Učka or Ćicarija, anyway. One example. Luka Koper or Kopar, meaning that part of Istria is integrated into Slovenia in '54. A year. They didn't have anything there! The infrastructure has been set up by the port of Rijeka, the railway is only being given to them in the 1970s. They are ten kilometers away from Trieste, and today they are the leading port in the northern Adriatic, which is also taking over part of the capacity in neighbouring Italy in Trieste. Would they be able to do that without that railroad? You wouldn't! And it is clear that this tunnel should also be highlighted without a merger on the Slovenian railways, too, makes no sense. It doesn't make sense, but one day Croatia and Slovenia or Croatia and Slovenia may be led by some other people, so these other people will be able to agree not only on this railway connection but also on Slovenia building towards Croatia those missing highways towards Rijeka, according to I don't know Istria, towards Zagreb, etc. etc. And that's why I think you gentlemen need this tunnel that I'm talking about through Ucka or Cicaria. On page 13 here it is said that according to current plans and priorities, investments over the next 20 years need to be made in 20 years, and in these first four years there is no word about it, among other things, the merger as the Učka-Lupoglav-Trst tunnel says here. But once again in this program, no kuna has been secured for the next four years. For the end, this 18 billion kuna should not be underestimated, it is certainly for Croatian occasions big money. But understand, Mr. Minister, that every Istrian is offended by the fact that we do not see the start of this tunnel through Učka. For Istrian, it is a matter of pride, I may not have said the primary economic interest, but for Croatia, this tunnel of vital economic interest is the essence, and surely the economy of Istria, and the industry in Istria is much stronger than tourism or trade, too. And that is why we ask that this programme be revised and that certain funds be provided during this period 2008-2012 so that Istria is not treated as one foreign body. When Istrian or Istrians give it it's okay, when they ask for at least a piece to come back and then Istria is everything just seems loyal no. Istria did not vote for this government, the Istrians are loyal citizens of Croatia, and at least not all should be dragged away elsewhere, but part of the money should come and where this money is being realised. And I'd like to see in these tables where Istria is represented. And just one more sentence. Surely one thing is that the railroad is as we have, perhaps the biggest victim of this last war, the war that was imposed on Croatia, where we were victims of a brutal aggression. Four years of war threw us back 20 years, and we only reached industrial production in the '90s last year, gross social product from the '90s, maybe only in 2005, and that's why we need Europe and one strong step to catch up with what was taken from us in the war. But we also won't be able to do it without one financial reorganisation of this country's financial capacities.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3496	Thank you, fellow Cain. Correction of incorrect allegations, distinguished representative Ivan Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3497	I am correcting the incorrect allegations of colleagues from Cain that the Croatian state has not invested a single kuna in the Istrian railways as he says, I would say in the railways in the Istria area. That's just not true. I'll just give some examples. Motor trains in Istria, full crossings were purchased, several dozen road crossings were arranged. Mr. Caine and the centre of Pula were arranged a depot and workshop maintenance of tow vehicles, and while it was under Slovenia it was one strategist.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3498	Mr. Calmeta wants to speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3499	Here I agree with Mr Cain that it is a shame that Istrian railways, i.e. railways that go through Istria to be clearer, not Istrian railways, but Croatian railways that go through Istria are not connected to Rijeka, but should go through Slovenia to come and join the rest of the railways that are located in Croatia. But you and I both know who's to blame, and it's because of the former state that planned it. You loved her, I didn't, but here we are today where we are and we agree that it's a shame and that it needs to be fixed. That's what we agree on. It is therefore not true that this tunnel is not intended to be operated and that the tunnel is built and that the line of Opatija - Matulj - Učka tunnel, etc. is built. And to bring together what we're talking about here today. We predicted to solve it through the low-rise track. But since it does not satisfy you, I accept that it does not satisfy you, here I am telling you now that we, or the Government, are going to explain by amendment this item in which it will be stated clearly and what we were talking about today through Učka which I once again consider to be repeating five times, that it is necessary to do and that it is a shame that the railroad goes as it goes, and it goes because it used to be. And by the way, Mr. Cain, while you were in power, you could have done something more concrete for that tunnel, you did absolutely nothing, and we will.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3500	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3501	Yeah, looks like the most important thing for that tunnel is to make the late President Tudjman who started digging there in 93. But something else to fix. He tells me the minister you loved that former state, and you didn't, but you must have profited far more from that former state than me and mine. Now to whom she was a mother, to whom she stepmothered about it at some other time. But you didn't live so badly under that state that you didn't love, which doesn't mean that the government that came in the '90s didn't hurt you and all of us very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3502	Well, we haven't really fixed much, but good. I would like to inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure have expired time to apply for a 10-minute hearing. And we still have one club application. Since both the president and the deputies are busy, vice presidents, then I will give my word on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party club. (for speaker) Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable representatives of the Croatian Parliament, allow me to...... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Then here I am giving up the debate. Let's move on. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, counselor. Thank you very much. Here, I'll speak from the scene then. Surely the document ahead of us expected all together to cause a strong debate. And that's good. It was time to come. And we at the HSS are grateful to the ministry for making it and preparing it here, but for one of the first, real working sessions. It is also certain that when we consider this document, it, like any other document that works on a single-state recording, can be made with different approaches, more or less critical, or more or less analytical. We believe that this document is designed as the right basis for what needs to be done and in which direction to invest the funds in priority. It is safe to assess the state of rail infrastructure and what price the Croatian economy has paid for the imposed Homeland War. That's where it stands. They're not calculations, but it's easy to get them out. Equally from this document to read how efforts were made to preserve the infrastructure through which the Croatian railways were being trafficked, but also the people who worked in that system, who at a certain point over a number of years, many called them, were surplus, but were preserved so that the system could function fully tomorrow. Now, we're facing a new challenge. We can say, we still have to invest in road infrastructure. They'll always need it. But they're either the most significant, the main directions or they're finished or they're in the performance at different stages. And when it comes to infrastructure, in transport infrastructure, for us now the infrastructure of Croatian railways is a challenge. It is certain that, because of its position, Croatia must consider and consider setting itself in a wider area. And I think it's from the priorities that have been identified here, and that's what's been taken into account. I had the honour of being at a session of the Croatian Government and the Hungarian Government two years ago, it seems to me in Budapest, when just one of the dominant topics of the then joint session of the Government was the issue of railway infrastructure and when it was agreed with what dynamics and what Croatia would seem to be connecting to the directions of the Republic of Hungary. What also results from this document are certain ambitions on the link lines towards pan-European or Master's directions. This in local self-government, in regional self-government, in our cities, municipalities and counties is causing interest and desire for priorities. From the calculation given here, from the deadlines proposed, it is certain that we want to make these, these investments to be carried out as soon as possible. But it's important, and I believe it's good, I talked to a part of the experts who know the railway infrastructure that just calculated the cost of certain investments were made realistically. We often had programs drawn up well, but then there was no reality in assessing their price, their weight, and their performance deadlines. I believe that not only the Croatian Peasants' Party club but that everyone would agree together, that it would be good if it could be realised in five or ten years. The program's been built for 20 years. That doesn't mean it has to last twenty years. Because for these 18 billion, which is 2.7 times more, in five years' investment than it was in the last five years. It is safe to find and I am convinced that new funds and new investors and new opportunities will also appear. But let's make this a reality program. I need him, and I can see from the Minister's statement so far, that he's ready to be completed, that we can talk about him because he has to have implementing programs for individual segments behind him. What concerns us and I believe you, and here are the figures not to repeat how many accidents occurred at the crossing points. The main objective of this programme is to modernise, build, increase speed, but we must always take care of safety. I know that she, and you know you, knows the public, that exactly the spring crossings are covered by each other's program, worked out over 15 years. But also when we talk about these issues in the local self-government at the level of the municipalities, the cities where we're passing them, then they've just appealed to this program that in the volume of funds when we're looking at it right now within these 18 billion and it doesn't have that much percentage value. It turns into promilian, but it is very important that if it is possible to intensify the realization of this program because every life is precious, every accident that happens has its consequences both human and material injuries. And it is certain that you should see within the Croatian railways the possibility of intensifying it. Part of the funding is in this programme, and I believe that part of the funds is also provided from those software sources that have been identified when adopting the Programme for Security on Croatian Railways. What I also believe is all of our concerns together, it's the state of the signal devices that were built during the time some other trains were trafficling those tracks, those who heard each other for miles, or as one colleague here says, who had to run over. Today it's a second condition, and that's what we should be working on. And that's why it's good that the program is made parallel to how to renovate existing and build new, because every government, after all, every municipality, the county is much easier to define for a new programme because these are new openings, these are the directions that are then written that are made in a certain mandate or for certain management, but we need to take care of the renewal of the existing, of creating the safety of the non-existent. And in the end, when it comes to the railroad, we have to look at it not only through this element that I was talking about. We must observe it through what direction tomorrow is a vision of traffic development not only in Croatia but also beyond. In this High House a few days ago, we discussed how much and how and what dynamics to invest funds in modernising all of those facilities that are in our ports. It is certain that this transport of goods to ports and from ports must be further linked to traffic routes and the railway is an inevitable factor. Without each other, it's gonna be hard to go or create situations to create capacities in one place and then these capacities don't have any further connections. And that's why we consider commitment to the magistrate's direction good. What I still want to say, and certainly, many of us, when we followed the development of road traffic there in the 1960s, were at all asking questions as to the role of the railway, whether its role fell. Many railways were then closed because it was a trend in road traffic development and I would say much more elegant traffic from door to door. Today comes a different time, and not just for the price of transportation. There's a question of energy and there's a question of environmental protection. These are segments to be considered when adopting such a strategy because it is certainly a long-term commitment to the railway. And we see what our neighbors or those who are close to us Austrians have done. There's no limit, now there's the Italians. These questions will also be answered in Croatia very soon. We must be ready for that time, ready. With this programme, we must predict that time and create conditions for us to be involved in such a form of transport. And in conclusion, I'll say more. These 18 billion envisioned by this program, God forbid there are more of them, are actually a chance for our economy because someone's going to do those repairs, someone's going to build new tracks, someone's going to renovate the infrastructure, build cars and locomotives. It is also a chance for our economy where, in some coordination, we must create conditions for parallel strengthening and these potentials to be what I know to stress several times turned, entrenched, then they give and it will give its full effect. And finally, the HSS club supports a document like this. We believe that it is possible and that the ministry will surely accept everything that will be discussed with a single correction through the debate. On page 20, it says that the state border of Botovo-Dugo Selo is the second track. It has not been built but we believe, here is counterpart Mršić and I that this direction will be written very quickly that it is built, for now he is in projection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3505	I give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3506	He's giving up. Next up, a distinguished representative, Dragica Zgrebec, appeared for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3507	Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. I will say something in principle very briefly about this programme national because my colleague Linic has already said that he is missing, unacceptable and that he should be seriously upgraded. It is actually based on a financial amount of 18 billion kuna of which, in fact, infrastructure will be invested under this programme of $12.6 billion. Most of it is the reconstruction of 7.7 billion while the construction of new railways is less than 5 billion kuna, and that is calculated by experts who know railways well that it is only 100 kilometers of new railways in those five years. So the rest goes to the system and I don't think we should show it here at all because it's a regular activity. So it's not in that sense some new value. And as for the sources of funding again, the largest part goes from the budget, very little seems to me planned from the pre-accession funds of the European Union, only one billion kuna, so I think it seems to me that there is no trust that such a programme could compete and get more money. What other sources of another billion kuna are actually not specific. And what my colleague Linic said, it is interesting not to plan funds from the rental of railway infrastructure, which will be reconstructed in one part each year, modernised and in another made new kilometers of railways. Which, in my opinion, is actually missing from this program. They lack the necessary analyses on which he was based or at least we don't have them, they're not presented to us, it would be good if there were to be delivered to us as a contribution to the national programme and they were actually the basic assumptions of modernising the railway infrastructure. It is also about current traffic in pan-European corridors, traffic towards our ports. So, as far as it's actually competitive now, how much of this railroad can take over road traffic towards ports, how much transport of dangerous cargo, how much combined transport, load of road-railways, what about urban and suburban transport of passengers in larger cities, for example Zagreb, etc. It is necessary, through the forecast in passenger and freight transport, to actually see what affects the increase in transport and to achieve the effect that the railway in the near future becomes the safest, biggest and most environmentally acceptable land carrier. Three pan-European corridors pass through Croatia 10th east-west and 5B which has a branch of the line and 5C which actually engraving both towards our ports, one Rivers with other tiles. And on them is two-thirds of the total length of all the railways in Croatia. We actually have a great synergy of geographical position, transport infrastructure and flows of goods and, transport of goods and passengers. Do we bear in mind that each of these corridors actually has competitors in parallel directions and that in fact the demand in the lease of such routes will focus primarily on the quality they provide, of course and at the price, then it is unacceptable for Croatia to miss the opportunity to collect such a positional rent. But also not to train your carrier to traffic on those tracks. Today we have a situation that only 25 large users actually realize 80% of rail traffic in Croatia, it will not actually be a problem tomorrow for competitors to take over the entire traffic. The issue and how we are preparing for the ever-increasing liberalisation of the rail market, which is being speedily planned in the European Union, are also being adopted by certain directives, and we are not actually giving an answer through this national programme either. It is true that the modernisation of the railway system is a condition for accessible European packages. But if we are late, as I have already said, there are certain parallel traffic routes that can actually be the main competitors for Croatia. And with this national programme by 2012, we only provide 4.5 billion kuna for the construction of new kilometers of railway lines. The motioner in the document has actually stated, has set goals and wishes and suggestions, and for solving the consequences, while problems and causes have not actually been determined and have not been almost or touched. The whole program actually comes down to the suspension of borrowing and the restriction of budgetary giving. In other words, here, through the conservative budget we discussed last night, today we are discussing a conservative national railway infrastructure programme and there is a danger that tomorrow we will preserve the entire Croatian society. After we lost our entire mandate to do more for the railroad, now we are actually proposing one missing document with which, in fact, the promoter would not know until the end of what he would like to achieve. Once the Law on Railways was amended in 2004 in a way that actually changed or abolished the only then acceptable, at that time, a constant source of rail financing, no new source was found for financing the railway programme. And we actually lost three years, not knowing what we'd actually do. It's a safe source of funding, not to suggest a new one, it wasn't really wise. We have also warned of this in the adoption of amendments to the Law on Railways, and we have also proposed an interpretation precisely to encourage the Government to come more seriously to address this problem. We, in this way, are focusing only on infrastructure and not on the restructuring and training of our carrier, so, Croatian Railways, to be competitive tomorrow in these directions, we are in fact violating the technology system and it must be complete in order to achieve a positive synergy. In fact, we are now deciding whether we and our railway will enter the European Union as a partner or if we will enter only with our rails, which will then be transported by other carriers tomorrow. That's why I think that training our national rail transport for tomorrow's strong market liberalisation needs to actually pay more attention. And that is why we are asking on behalf of the SDP Club, that this document be completed with certain and analysis but also new moments, objectives and benefits that the Croatian railways should achieve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3508	Thank you. We have a request for one to correct an incorrect allegation. Representative Marija Buric-Pejcinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3509	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I have to correct the incorrect quote of my colleague Zgrebec who found in her beginning of exposure that this document we have ahead of us shows that we have no confidence in how much money can be withdrawn from the access funds. I must say that it is very well known for the next 2007 to 2010 how much money can be made, and to mention that in ISPI for transport, in two years we could withdraw 30 million euros in sacred time. As far as I know, in the third component relating to n traffic, it is not much larger per year, or a two-year allocation in the years to come. And besides the railways there are, of course, other parts of the transport infrastructure to be financed, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3510	Thank you very much. Before we go any further, one notice. We would like to inform you that the 5th session of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament is scheduled for 28:00 p.m., to be postponed at the proposal of the SDP, HNS, IDS, for further consultations of the Committee President Vladimir Seks. We're moving on with the debate. Dear representative Mr. Bojan Pants.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3511	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The railways marked the history of land traffic. It is clear that in the future in land transport there will be railways. This applies not only to the transport of cargo but also to the transport of passengers. The highest advantage of railways, as recognised and the European Union is primarily an ecological aspect, but no less important is the decommissioning of roads and thus increasing road safety. The European Union, through trans-European projects still adopted in Essen in 96, clearly tried to solve narrow throats in the European Union's primary railway infrastructure and those closest to us are projects that are a fast train from Berlin, Venice to Naples. Then train Trieste-Milano-Lion. And our closest competitive, traffic route, Slovenia, from the port of Kopar, Ljubljana to the Austrian border have clearly defined the situation of things in the European Union and made clear that the railway is also a future as well as the past related to the transport of goods and passengers. This programme for the development of Croatian Railways infrastructure for the period 2008 to 2012 goes on exactly this track and is no less or less an improvement of Pan-European Corridor 5B through the infrastructure of the Croatian Railways than it is a competitive direction. I would just point out the fact that a two-way line from Copra, Ljubljana to the Austrian border is expected somewhere in 2015. Therefore, this is a clear response to this infrastructure development and is expected to be at least that long-term flatline drawn between Rijeka and the Hungarian border. As for those parts concerning the European Union and the applicant has already stressed that the funds in the European Union are being taken quite conservatively here. However, it has been said before that there is more to be expected from the European Union funds in this context. And it all relates to that funds that go beyond the budget can be expected more than 6% in the coming years. I would also refer to the initial and final point of corridor 5B, which is the Rijeka port which has been recording over the past seven years a significant growth in container transport so that this year, in fact, there were around 150 thousand container units on the river road, which, according to the budgets given in the environment, came about 80 million US dollars only to direct users of that traffic route. If we look at the transport plan for the next 10 years, then by foreign consultants who do so for the World Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, we can see that about a million containers, container units, will come to the Rijeka traffic route, which will mean approximately $900 million of direct participation in all users of this traffic route. Therefore, speaking of the justification of the railway and of the participation and further costs, there is no need to raise a question about it at all. As for competition and other competition routes, which means a two-way flat track towards Zagreb for the Rijeka port can be drawn in several examples by saying that the Slovenian port of Koper is 10 times larger in space today than the Rijeka port. So this is what we can really say at the right time came this initiative of the proposings and the Croatian Government so that we can expect that the bottleneck should not be a land transport. He would just point out one fact that in 10 years when around a million container units are expected, this means that about 1000 drop-offs will be on the roads to Zagreb daily. We can know what this means for the congestion of the road, which is vital for the Republic of Croatia and for Central Europe as regards transit. Today, the Rijeka port for transit means with the European Union. So it can be expected here if, of course, there are any situations to make this happen in time. But we don't have to doubt that he will. That there will be even greater congestion in the traffic direction towards the Hungarian border. Therefore, what I can do is that this is a consistent programme of infrastructure development, that it is consistent with all users, with all participants and on the road and within the Croatian Railways and that it should be welcomed in my personal opinion. And in any case, he is on the verge of what is expected of the participants and users of the pan-European 5B corridor from Rijeka to the Hungarian border. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3512	Thank you very much. Next, the honourable representative, Ivan Hanzek, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3513	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here's the beginning of this debate and the presentation shows that actually the railways were talking and talking today, and they'll probably be talking about people who breathed smoke from those litigators that were trafficking not so long ago. And that people who know what railways mean in everyday life in economic terms and in the future of this country are actually involved in the debate today. I don't want to repeat the things that the representatives said because of all the exposure, and even in the name of the clubs, there's a lot that a man can agree on. I would just like to point out at the beginning, and I would like to suggest that it enters into the conclusions that, in fact, once a year, we really do analyse the implementation of the programme to see which obstacles are objective and subjective that can be questioned by the realization of this plan and the programme. But since the railways can be really widely spoken and the time is small I will focus on what is really about the area from which I come from which my colleague Vincelj mentioned in part in the presentation on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HNS, which is the Zagorski pool. I am pleased with the place dedicated to the railways of Zagreb i.e. Zaprešić-Zabok, electrification and we must say that I am now a little bit involved in the recommendations between Minister Calmeta and fellow Kajina's former state did not affect the determination of directions, but Emperor Franjo Josip and Austro-Hungarian, who adapted the routes of railway roads to its needs, but unfortunately it remained until today so regardless of change. It may be an advantage for us to connect with the European Union. Within the framework of this programme, which is facing the Zabok railway, the special shares of Zabok, its electrification, unfortunately and in the former state, have been repeated in the five-year plans, and it has prolonged the completion and completion of the job. Today it is a rail that records the largest number of passengers transported but the rail on which the speed of movement and axle pressure of the freight wagon are reduced from day to day. It is at the same time a railroad that passes through the heart of not the future, but the current comparisons for the northern Italian provinces of the industrial zone. From Zaprešić via Bought, Luke, Shop, Zaboka, St. Križ Začretje 2009 at the 9th month there will be no shares longer than 500 m that will not be built by industrial, economic, storage facilities. We who work here, who attract the businessmen as the strongest asset, but at the same time and as... We point out to them the possibility that tomorrow they're charging their own to the wolf what the railroaders would say to the railroads. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We in Zabok today have two economic operators almost 300,000 tons of annual cargo. Others don't have industrial colossals, and they don't have the option. These industrial trackways were built from, one was built three years ago and already represents the second track track towards Zapresic. But at this point I know that both the railway and the ministry on that segment will take care of it. However, I would also like to point out because of those citizens who are watching and listening to us that the Zagori are the largest passengers in daily migration at train stations, in railway trains, and that the state of the station, the situation of the stand is catastrophic. I'll say, the railway station is the third in the Republic of Croatia by the number of passengers. Neither employees nor passengers have a sanitary knot or a toilet. Unfortunately, it is a fact and I really support the program, but I insist that in that part I also spoke to the authorised secretary of state Mr. Jerneich about some things objectively there are terms that are impossible to skip. It's actually the ninth month of 2009 or 2010. However, I don't think there's any need to delay the time of intervention in passenger station facilities. We agreed with the railroad and the urban plan, agreed the gauges, the directions, and so to say the aspirations. However, I think the railway should also enable faster flow of ideas, faster flow of decision-making. For five years, we cannot resolve the purchase of 750 metres of railway land, to train the station road along the railway road, to enable the railway to transport passengers easier when the transport is disabled due to the reconstruction of the railways. And all the things I'm saying, I'm saying in terms of support but support with the acceleration of interventions in that part that will show both passengers and railway users that we are really moving on one path that is necessary, which we are all aware of and regardless of its weight. When we look at Croatian Zagorje in the rail transport sense, there is much said. I just want to point out again. The suburban traffic and our interest in a truly Zagreb traffic hub is being resolved because I fear that the dynamics for which freight passengers will head towards the railway in the next two to three years will have a narrow throat able to accept the Zagreb railway hub. We who traveled on the train for years know that earlier in the prewar period when the intensive use of the railway was the situation that in Zapresić, three, four trains waited for international trains to pass and that there were delays that were both materially and otherwise harmful to the economy. In order for this not to happen again, I absolutely support that the nodes and the corresponding stripes have priorities. We know that all their stripes are the most important, the most priority. But we really should take and not only say political circumstances and consider them as objectively given, that the parameters that talk about the number of passengers, the tone, the trends to be priority in speeding up the pace of certain works along with financial constraints. Thank you again for your attention!
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3514	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Proposer, the Secretary of State, answered for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3515	Dear Mr. Vice President, esteemed MPs. Somehow I feel that the further part of this debate will be more focused on local areas, local problems, so I'd like to look back and say at this moment. This is, however, a national programme for building railway infrastructure, a document that we have made based on extensive analysis but we wanted to make it clearer, easy to read and one that will easily follow it. Further operationalisation of this document is through annual building plans to be adopted by the national railway infrastructure manager of HZ infrastructure. But I think it's clear to everyone here that this is one shift towards construction and the rail system. So, so far, they've had the priority of road construction. It is this year that the second programme will be completed, a four-year road construction programme in which huge funds have been invested. However, construction of a railway system, not only railway infrastructures, but as well as mobile facilities, locomotives, wagons, etc. is well said here. So that when the time comes for the liberalisation of our infrastructure network, some other operators will not have priority over our resources, they are not in this programme. They're out of it, or added to it. So, in transport vehicles, locomotives, also subsidies to local lines. All these are the measures to raise the total rail system. But what is important is that the state has a clear transport policy. So, the railway system is just one of the segments of all modes of traffic, and I think it's also in the presentation of Minister Calmeta and Colač, say the director of the Port Authority of Rijeka, that it's a clear interest of this country to place the transport system in all its forms in the function of the economy, which is actually called regional competitiveness because we recognize exactly this radial direction, means 5B corridor of our most important Luke Rijeka, Luke Plot towards Eastern Europe, or markets that are opening up there, because there is expected to be a gross traffic. Only 10% of the total traffic that passes through the Suez Canal ends in the Adriatic, which means that by looking a little wider Luka Koper, Luka Rijeka, Luka Ploče, Luka Trieste are in principle not a serious competition but is a common destination when traffic enters the Adriatic where it is much closer and seven days closer to coming to Eastern Europe than through northern ports there is our competitiveness. Therefore, both the Slovenians and the Italians and we must recognise it in a certain period of time. With large investments in ports, it is normal that the burden will not be able to draw only roads specifically towards Rijeka. We will end the full profile of the highway this year, we will finish the new road D404 to Luke Brajdica, but for a while it will be able to work, but if we don't make a new track of the lowland then we won't be able to get the burden out of Luke Rijeka even by mass, without even talking about environmental problems. That's where they said how many tows would be on the freeway. As far as the Istrian railways are concerned, the fact that they are not connected, we will go with the amendment of the government in which we will describe the railway line, or indicate the tunnel through Učka. Why? Because that's it, tunnels are relatively cheap works and take a long time. Therefore, it is no problem in these means to find the money to go with it. On Monday, I will be at a meeting of one great one, here is my colleague Denone, in the County of Primorje-goranska with people, meaning mayor, mayor, the entire team from Zagreb will come from all segments of traffic, to coordinate in time to avoid delaying the adoption of county spatial plans, a specific area within which to resolve the quality approach to Istria, which we all know we must do. So Mr. Friscic said nicely that this is a new investment procedure where we will be able to employ capacities and local operations and industry in a broader sense. We will use EU funds. This is what I would like, since I am the national transport coordinator for the EU, we have made two documents in the past term, one is a national strategy for ISPA and for IPA pre-accession funds. So those funds are fixed. She knows exactly how many they are. So in this national program, I apologize, you just interrupt me because I don't know how long I'm allowed. So we've run through national programmes, so total infrastructure, we've given priority to the railways right now. However, the European Union and the European Union have the right to suggest, concentrate these funds on the tenth corridor and it is clear that, in the context of the neighbourhood, this priority is important to the European Union. That's why we're European funds tomorrow and the Cohesion Fund when we enter Europe, we can't plan something until we know something accurate, we'll use it to rehabilitate the tenth corridor. In particular, tenders for the reconstruction of Vinkovci-Tovarnik have already been held, with the co-financing of some 70m euros. We have run at all what is said about the IPA exactly the railway hub of Zagreb which is in poor condition, and the priority is two other shares on the 10th corridor. So the intensity of this national programme is that we recognize through it how to communicate with the environment through European funds that is one thing, and the other is that we use our own resources exactly where we see our national interest, which is to activate our ports. We've been to a series of meetings with the ministers of neighbouring countries, especially Hungary. They see only Luka Rijeka and Luka Ploče as their national interest. So we wouldn't drive other operators, and we're doing it, so it's dividing the railroad into more, on the tow, on the cargo, on the passenger, etc. The state is looking at all segments of the total rail system and based on the analysis I would call this a point on "i", so one point from where the momentum starts, means no more that mastering the mass itself, and now it's only one question, how much we're able as companies to spend it. This is huge money, it's almost 2.5 billion euros. According to the government's mission, the ministry is to raise the so-called The absorption potential to put it all together and spend it all. Here I wouldn't go any further, I felt the need to go before we went towards these local things, to do one more recapitulation to know what the weight of this document is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3516	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. We have an application for a correction of an incorrect allegation. The Port of Denon, the esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3517	The incorrect allegation would like to correct Mr. Livakovic you know very well, of course the highway with a full profile will one day reach Rijeka. At this point this year will reach Orehovica. It will only come to Rijeka when it is in full profile of the Rijeka bypass finished, D404 and D403 only then can we speak the highway Rijeka-Zagreb. This is the Zagreb-Orehovica highway.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3518	Thank you very much. The word was further received by the basis of the application by the esteemed representative, Mr Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3519	Dear Vice President, representatives of the ministry. I'd like to start my discussion with one question. I would be very interested in the last time Minister Kalmeta, you State Secretary, and above all, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia drove a train? When you personally took note of how almost the largest state-owned company and one of the most important infrastructure companies in the Republic of Croatia function. I came here today for this debate with the train. I also came on the train to debate when there was a debate on the interpretation of the SDP club just over a year and a half ago. I've come to the debate by train driving along corridor 5B which is one of the most important priorities or one of the priorities in this national programme. The difference between 2005 and today is that I was driving for 55 minutes, today I was driving for 75 minutes. The difference is that the new train schedule on corridor 5B speeds from 90km on the Koprivnica-Križevci section is down to 60km. Not only for passenger trains, but also for freight trains, which means that the passage for passengers and freight on corridor 5B is reduced on that share. Last year, the biggest traffic in net and gross tonnes per km in Croatia was made at the Botovo border crossing. It will obviously not be achieved this year because simply the permeability of the railroad is no longer so. Meanwhile, from 2004 to today, I have been making amendments to each budget to continue remounting the railways on the stock since entering the railway station Križevci towards Koprivnica and towards Botov. Every time that amendment was rejected, it was incorporated into the Croatian railway budget. Today we see that this was not incorporated into the budget of Croatian railways and that the remont was not made. The remont was only made in 2002, 2003 and spring 2004, which was until the entry into the railway station Križevci, and it did not continue to be remounted towards the state border to ensure that the second track was built on corridor 5B that at least the normal traffic of the one needed was functioning. This doesn't matter how long I travel from Koprivnica to Zagreb. This will reduce the possibility of development and the port of Rijeka and the possibility of anything else attached to that corridor. And I would really welcome, I welcome this document and it's a good thing that we finally have this particular thing to do in the next five years. However, this document was to come to our benches in 2004. Then we might as well follow up on some things. Obviously, the whole story has been delayed for four years. And now I think that today I am disappointed in the situation here and in the Assembly Hall, we are talking about the most important infrastructure project in the next period in the Republic of Croatia. More important for me, even from the highways because this project means not only the possibility of people moving in the territory of the Republic of Croatia but also the huge potential for the economy of the Republic of Croatia with two aspects. From one aspect of modernization and reconstruction of railways in Croatia, this can be employed, preserved or opened an additional 30 to 40,000 jobs in the Republic of Croatia. It can generate huge future growth of the industry in Croatia because it will have a competitive advantage, because it will have faster, cheaper and more environmentally acceptable transport and transport of goods from and into its industrial plants. And will allow goods to be transported for, at the Adriatic-Mediterranean Europe route, etc. And finally, it weighs 2.5 billion in five years. It is certainly 7.8 billion euros over a ten-year period. So we are talking about something that is terribly important for the Republic of Croatia, for the citizens, for the industry. Unfortunately, here, as some said yesterday about the budget, is a half-empty hall. I don't think it's too much to discuss on this subject. I think we will discuss the Croatian Parliament's Rules of Procedure much more than Croatian railways. This is something that determines the future development of the Republic of Croatia. And it really wouldn't be because the SDP club asked it to be done, but I think it would be good to turn this into some first reading of this document, to open a national, public discussion of all of this document, and to return it back to the Parliament after a month, and then with a lot more opinions and experience of that knowledge, we bring it in and then stick to it as a drunk float. Not to get into the situation in 2011, and especially not in 2012, after the next parliamentary election that we have to say here, you see, we didn't do it, so it wasn't like this, so I don't know the real estate market in America fell, so we didn't make it. So this is something that must be binding for all of us in the Croatian Parliament and especially in the Croatian Government, those who are responsible. And not only in this term, but this is the basis for the next two governments, because it refers to the first five years and the other five years. So here we are discussing something that will concern the next three mandates. This one and two other terms of office. And that's why I have to admit a little bit I'm disappointed in what we have today's atmosphere at the end and here in the hall. And now very specific. I think it would be nice to adjust our priorities on the programme itself a little bit. I think just because of what I was talking about, the priority of the 5B corridor should be shifted from 2009, 2010, 20011 to 2008. You need to start this year with a 5B Remont of Corridors towards Koprivnica and Botov. And that should be over next year. We're going to get into a situation where next year the speed is down from 60 to 40. Or maybe we can't even transport certain cars by that route. And also since the planned start of construction of the Graz-Tubno-Bjelovar railway and that it should then be completed by 2011, then it should be quite certain by 2011 that there should be a share of the second track at least Long Selo-Vrbovac-Gradac. Because if we make a more important pass to Bjelovar, we won't be able to accept those trains at all on this section of the railway from Gradec to Long Village where we have only one track. So these priorities should be shifted to start building next year the second track of the Long Selo-Vrbovac pa Vrbovac-Gradac and to be completed in 2011. And on the other hand, if by then the Gradec-Toad-Belovar railroad will be ready. And to continue certainly not in 2013, although it's optimistic, I don't think it's going to be done by the Botovs in 2013 to be done by 2012 by the second track to Botov. And of course, I'm not talking about this second part of so, Karlovac-Long Resa, the low-rise line towards Rijeka, but I think it's very important that we move all of this and start to build not as it's predicted just before the elections, but that just before the elections you have the opportunity to open one of those shares. What this programme or in the budget should make sure that it further understands this is what is written in the Government's programme. The government programme makes it clear that all road-rail crossings will be protected within the next four years. You predicted 315 million in this program. There's about 300 million in construction. There's 300 million missing. In four years, 300 million must be found to protect all road-rail crossings. And further, we need to find funds in this intermodal terminal program. We have a project in Koprivnica from 81 which must enable the use of funds from European funds, not pre-accession but European funds. Unfortunately, we missed Marco Polo 1 completely, we were too late to pay our share. Marco Polo 2 is scheduled, there are 59 million euros, our huge opportunity for our entrepreneurs to withdraw some money and I don't think we should be so unambitiously planning funds from European funds. Let us, in IPA, know how much it is but sustainable transport is currently one of the most important topics in the European Union and there is a huge amount of money where we can directly apply or the Croatian Railways directly to the European Fund, not to the pre-accession fund. All right, all right. We should go to Brussels for a while. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3520	Thank you very much. We have an application for a replica by the distinguished representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3521	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Mršić, I think it is very good that not even the appropriate minister and especially the minister of transport is not on the train because in that case, at every important meeting and especially in the negotiations with Europe, he would be late. The train you're traveling on and I'm traveling on that same train and he's driving from Čakovec through Varazdin and Koprivnica only arrives on February 29th, provided it's a working day because on the weekends you don't have a fast connection. Secondly, they are not instructed to use railway transport because they should buy a ticket at least two days earlier because the HH computer system does not give you a ticket or a reservation if it is blocked with annual or monthly tickets and then passengers prefer to use a bus because it is really not acceptable that three days before you have to buy a ticket so that they can use HZ services. That computer system was shot with nasty money that works the way I described it to you. That's why I would recommend that our officials continue to use the rolling stock, not the railroad, because we'll be late everywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3522	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3523	Here, I hope that in the second five-year plan, what is written here in the introduction will be realized, and nowhere after that is not even mentioned, and that is even the two-way line of Čakovec-Varaždin-Koprivnica, and that we will become a region as well, that this is how the region will be created. But it would also be good to at least mention in this programme one railroad that carried the greatest burden of war, which is the railroad from Koprivnica via Virovitica to Osijek. If it hadn't been for Slavonia, she wouldn't have survived the war, unfortunately she's not mentioned here. It is not a local railway, it is an important railway, and I think it should be mentioned, that it should be renewed and that companies should also be able to, or that cities and businesses operating alongside Drava, so that we have a parallel corridor along corridor 10, that companies operating with Drava can also drive and transport their goods to have a comparative advantage over the rest of the economy in this region. So here's an appeal if you can at least mention it in this program of the Koprivnica-Virovica-Ours-Osjek railroad.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3524	Thank you very much. In fact, the replica and the reply to the replica have shown that building two colossals does not mean that each one is going in its direction because I think that there were actually wishes and interests that were highlighted here as soon as possible to build directions. There can't be a replica on the replica during the replica, so I didn't appreciate your plate. ... All right. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's a road, but it's mostly Slavonians. If it wasn't for Slavs... The railroad. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Next, distinguished representative Tomislav Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3525	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, honourable members of the government's representatives, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to express my commendation to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Resort Ministry on the proposal of the National Programme for the Development of Railway Infrastructure for the period 2008-2012, which is comprehensive and comprehensive and which, most importantly, takes care of the even development of railway infrastructure in all parts of Croatia. After or rather parallel to large-scale investment in road infrastructure followed by the investment of 18 billion kuna in the development of railway infrastructure. What this will mean for the development of transport infrastructure is generally not to be mentioned in particular, but what is even more important by investing in infrastructure development is directly invested in the development of the Croatian economy because there is no intensive economic development without developed and modern not to say modern transport infrastructures. I am particularly pleased to see a purely regional investment in road infrastructure in Slavonia and Baranja followed by the investment of several billion kunas in the development of railway infrastructure in Slavonia and Baranja, such as the railway line on the 5C corridor branch worth 442 million kuna, the track on the 10th corridor is worth around 2.5 billion kuna and half of that amount refers to the share through Slavonia. railway Slatina-Zdenci-Orahovica 150 million kuna, construction of the Nasice cement 64 million kuna, reconstruction of the Vinkovci-Osjek 60 million kuna railway and several smaller shares worth 30 million kuna. In addition to improving transport infrastructure, these investments will have a direct impact on the accelerated development of the economy of Slavonia and Baranja, and in particular they are the best denial of the thesis they could hear, and even yesterday during the debate on the state budget that Slavonia and Baranja have been neglected, that Slavonia and Baranja are not being invested. However, these are examples of a proper policy and according to Slavonia and Baranja as well as all other regions in Croatia. It has never really been invested in Slavonia and Baranja as much as in the past few years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3526	Thank you very much. The word was further addressed by the distinguished representative Tomislav Culjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3527	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I am not much of a transport infrastructure expert, especially for railways, but since I am an agent coming from Vinkovac, and the Vinkovci have been carrying the epithet of the City of Railways for years, I would like to give my support to this National Programme of Railway Infrastructure for the period 2008/2012. I understand that there are a number of priorities when it comes to rail infrastructure and that, firstly, there are, of course, international corridors. But I would especially like to mention and express my satisfaction here, and I believe the satisfaction of a large number of Vinkovčan, but also the resident of the entire county of Vukovar-Srijemska, I believe Osijek, on the fact that there is also a reconstruction of the Vinkovci-Osjek railway. Before the Homeland War, the railway had enormous significance, and this railroad was driven by a lot of trains. For example, before the war, this railroad passed, trafficked, about 4100 passenger trains a year, as many freight trains. About 600,000 passengers and about 7 million tons of goods were transported annually. I know that by restoring this railroad, this railroad cannot gain that importance, but it has another meaning, especially in passenger traffic where really people who study in Osijek and otherwise have a need to solve their problems and actually communicate throughout Slavonia, surely that railway has great significance. This Vinkovci-Osjek railway, of course, will have traffic importance in freight traffic, but I would like to point out primarily here how many people who live on the track and the railways are actually waiting for the reconstruction of this railway that is in the construction sense, in this year the construction is expected to be completed and then the second part will go in the next year where the road crossing will end and everything else that needs to be done to make that railway safe. I also want to give my support, and because of this, here's colleague Cain mentioned the railroad, moving the railroad from Bibinj. I'm usually in Bibinj and I've talked to a lot of people from Bibinj and one of the basic problems that Bibinje municipality has, the place of Bibinje is exactly that railway that passes through the center of the city through the middle and separates Bibinje in half. That railroad passes and close to the sea, so it doesn't belong to her in every way. And when you look, when that rail is made, because of that national charge these people have, they have the feeling that it was built on purpose where it was built so that the place couldn't develop. Therefore, I express my special satisfaction that here and in the national strategy it is envisaged that this track be taken out of Bibinj's place with that Bibinj field, which will contribute to the development of Bibinj's place as applied to such a pearl of the Croatian Adriatic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3528	Thank you very much, counsel. There's still a debate going on. And we apologize, Replic, the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3529	I couldn't agree more on what my colleague said, compared to Bibinje railway, which simply interferes with life and the normal development of that area, and that's certainly to support it. In addition, on several occasions, the inhabitants of Bibinj were promised to get rid of it very soon. Well, I'll also use this opportunity, there's a secretary of state with his associates, to finally tell these people when it will be. Because every little bit of the election, that's what they're promised, and then they thought for good reason that it would be these next elections or local elections, so when they're local, then for those local committees and so on. However, time goes by, promises remain constant, it is good that there is now, as a colleague also noticed, drawn. But here's my chance to ask exactly when it's going to happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3530	Thank you very much. Honorable representative, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3531	Here, it is my pleasure that my colleague has agreed with my part regarding Bibinj and Bibinje deserves to move that railroad outside of Bibinj. I'd prefer that Mrs. MP when she was at the opportunity when the SDP was in power that already the procedure for moving that railroad was launched, and it would probably be over by now, but it's never too late. I hope it'll be soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3532	Thank you very much. Mr Livakovic, State Secretary Livakovic, answered again on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3533	Here, I apologize, therefore, there was a question here of moving the railroad from Bibinj. In order to move the railway from Bibinj, certain studies should be carried out because it is in a very difficult place, and the first technological and project solution should be installed in spatial plans, i.e. to modify spatial plans. The documentation will be completed this year and will begin to work with, if, this time tunnel at a critical stage, and the material from the tunnel will probably be used to overrun the port of Gazenica, also in the state project, so let's cut that one down. So we exactly expect the beginning of next year to be the beginning of the construction of that railroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3534	Thank you very much. Now the esteemed representative Ivo Grbić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3535	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretary, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The National Programme for Railway Infrastructure for the period 2008/2012. in the year, I would say for the first time in decades, the cycle of construction of new railways, the process of systematic modernisation, the existing infrastructure, which includes a uniform cycle of rail repairs, and the process of uniform maintenance of railway infrastructure. In Croatian territory, the new railway railways have not been built in the past 40 years, and the existing railway infrastructure has been exhausted and technologically lagging behind compared to the same infrastructure in the old members of the European Union. During the period of independence of Croatia during the war years, railway infrastructure suffered major war damage, and during the post-war years, the state had other priorities and invested in the railway as much as possible in the recovery and re-establishment of rail traffic that had been destroyed in the war and in stabilising the situation and maintaining the role of the most significant railways for international and internal transport. The adoption of a national programme will allow the start of a new period for rail infrastructure after a long series of years of stagnation and great difficulties in trying to keep it in a safe transport function. The compensation of large delays in the cycle of reconstruction and maintenance of existing railways and the achievement of high requirements for new rail infrastructure on transport corridors of the future trans-European railway network on the territory of the Republic of Croatia cannot be achieved overnight. And that's why it's going to take a few development-planning periods anyway. The effects of the planned activities will be visible only in the coming periods when full projects are completed and the result should be a completely new transport offer of increased rail capacity and transport opportunities, which would increase the importance of the railway infrastructure of the Republic of Croatia in the wider region as needed. Within the scope of real funding opportunities during this time period, the national programme is primarily focused on the basic rail network in the Republic of Croatia, which should become an integral part of the trans-European basic rail network even after joining the European Union. But it contains projects on a network of other railway lines of importance for international regional and local transport in line with the possibilities. The national programme also creates preconditions for the more intensive development of urban and suburban rail transport of passengers in major cities, on the principles of the establishment of an overall urban and suburban transport system based on the hierarchy of efficiency of overall social benefits, environmental indifference and the permanent resolution of trombones, congestion and inadequacy of traffic in cities. This and especially the following national programmes, I believe, will also ensure the conditions for the resolution of local railways' problems through appropriate sub-programmes, in moderations of appropriate importance and roles, as well as the extent of transport on a local track. In the period from 2008 to 2012, the state budget will be the main source of funding for the national programme. And significant funds as we can see are planned from the EU's accession funds. It will also begin to form other types of financial resources that will increase and act with the resources of the state budget in the coming periods. Total potentially available funds have been increased multiplely compared to the previous period and are forecasted at an amount of 18 billion kuna exactly according to the structure and dynamics for each individual year. Finally, let me express my satisfaction as a representative in the Croatian Parliament of the 9th Election Unit that the proposed national programme solves the whole and long-term neglected problem of the Bibinje municipality through which the entire settlement was literally shared by the railway railway, thereby preventing the development of tourism that is the fundamental branch of economic development of this coastal municipality. But also because of frequent accidents on the track, endangering and taking human lives. The proposed national programme finds a solution by building a bypass and reconstruction of the Bibinje-Zadar circular section. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I support the adoption of a national railway infrastructure programme for the period 2008-2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3536	Thank you very much. We have one correction, Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3537	Well, counterpart Gabric said this was the first plan that envisions building new railways. This is simply not because the strategy also envisioned the construction of the second track and the Gradec-Tubno-Bjelovar railway. There are some works being done, land purchased. It's an overpass. Therefore, the Gradec-The Frog-Bjelovar railway is already being done. A little longer, but that's what we're gonna do? Secondly, the second track was planned in 2002 in the strategy, modernising Croatian railways to be made and it was predicted that a low-level railway would be made as many times as twice as the minister gave large interviews to the national weeklys, speaking of it as a "new deal". So there were plans that spoke of building new railways. Well, something hasn't been done in four years, but I guess it will now.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3538	Thank you. And in the morning part, Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3539	Here's a little line, and then there'll be a little talk about it. The Subsident-Samobor railway is also listed in the plan to build new railways. Maybe a few words about the history of that railroad. That is, it is a former train "Selffighter" which was extremely popular in Zagreb, which served for tourist purposes. However, tourism has left much, but the population has increased greatly. The city of Samobor currently has about 42,000 inhabitants. Holy Sunday, the city of St. Sunday through which the train passes about 20,000 inhabitants. With Samobor and St. Sunday estimated that the population will grow by another 10 thousand in the next 5 years. So it is a large number of inhabitants who are gravitating towards Zagreb or Zagreb towards this area because a lot of workers travel to this area. And the result is that everything that does not have a railway is very crowded at the crossings of Zagreb. The train that existed until the early 1970s simply handed over the former Samobor municipality to ZET management. ZET shut her down within a year, replaced the buses. The railroad went missing in a few days. The thresholds, the tracks, therefore, remain only the corridor and that corridor will be used in one large part to build a new rail. We believe that the priority will still be given to this, given that it is a short, short procedure but extremely important because Zagreb is stifled. That railroad fits the line to the main station at the Sub-Neighbor. So every resident from Samobor and St. Sunday who sits on that train will be able to get to the centre of Zagreb to the main station and be with a number of students normally and students and avoid major crowds. I finally need a car to the Parliament here sometimes, so almost one now, and on my way back, I'll be 15 to 17 minutes back. So this railroad that has its own corridor in the good part with a new problem, which is to strengthen the bridge. So, the upgrade of the sub-neighbour bridge that would stand up to that former train, but I'm afraid this one doesn't and I think it's now being designed and just here I'm asking the ministry gentlemen when they're here to say what time. It's now one, one short period, short term. But I think it's going to be necessary to approach the purchase of parcels because in one part of the railroad it's changing course. So, I thank you here for including this in the name of all the inhabitants of Samobor and St. Sunday and I believe that they will soon approach this construction, even if we extend the railroad to Koprivnica and it will be quicker finished I know, but you don't have a date with us there. [[We'll see!]] Thank you. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3540	Thank you. And the State Secretary Mr. Zdravko Livaković will speak to you briefly.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3541	Here's a very short one. I am extremely glad that the importance of this strategic document has been recognised. The fact that the board, the resolution committee, unanimously supported it. So there wasn't much voting for herself talking. The fact is also that this is the first national programme, which does not mean that something has not been done and in the past period, let's say the reconstruction of 5C corridors through Slavonia, the character track, etc. Finally, the new track is at stake, if you have any idea what the Construction Act predicts. It's known what design is, etc. Therefore, the idea project has already gone far and I think it is shown here that the Croatian Government is sovereignly barata and manages the entire transport system, or its construction, and that the priority is the next period of railways. If this means this programme supports and intensive design, which means at the moment of opening up opportunities from the Cohesion Fund of the European Union we will be absolutely ready to collect these money as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3542	Thank you very much. Now we'll break up by 15.00 hours when we continue on the same agenda. The first is Mr. Davor Huška, then Mr. Boris Kunst and so on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3543	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the debate, with the session and on the proposal for a national railway infrastructure programme for the period 2008 to 2012. Honorable representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3544	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, here's until it's too busy for me to do this part of the debate. I would like to say a few words about the proposal for a national railway infrastructure programme related to the Western Slavonia area from which I come. As said in the programme, the development of railway infrastructure must function as a sustainable and balanced development of the country, and I believe that this programme is really in this function given the width of the territory of the Republic of Croatia that it covers. With the importance of the railway for international transport, the importance of regional railways to local self-government units is particularly interesting local railways. About this, since I come from the town of Pakrac, we especially care about the local railway Banovo Jaruga – Becelic, and in the term of office of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 2000 to 2003, we were threatened by the information that this local railway is non-economic, that it is not worth it and that it will be closed. Therefore, it is a joyous fact that in this five-year programme, in the part of the reconstruction and modernisation programme, the railways of importance for local transport in the item, telecommunications devices are planned to modernise this railway, which confirms that this government is not even considering closing this railway route. As regards the economic needs of this area on that track, the most urgent need for a remonting from that pruning direction is, meaning Banov Jaruga – Beelic, the spring compartments to the quarry in Sirać and to the glass factory in Lipik, and an increase in axle pressure of 22 tonnes due to the following traffic intensity from the direction of those economic operators. I hope also that there will be funds in this rich programme for the completion of the reconstruction in the Homeland War destroyed railway stations throughout Croatia, especially in the area, on the line of the Western Slavonia battlefield, i.e. in the area of the cities of Lipik and Pakraca. In any case, all praises and support for this program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3545	Thank you. Honorable representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3546	The esteemed Vice President and the esteemed responsible fellow MPs who came to this part of the session on time. I must say that the proposal for a national railway infrastructure programme for this period of 4 to 5 years means that from 2008 to 2012 it is necessary to adopt it in order to start drawing up the project documentation as soon as possible. I believe that none of us here need to prove what the development of the railway network and infrastructure means for Croatia, especially if we know that it is the most environmentally acceptable form of land traffic. The railway is irreplaceable in the goods, but more and more in the passenger transport. It is important for the economic development of both our countries and the development of the European and world transport market. That is why I was surprised by today's statement by the minister when he said there are some who feel that railway traffic should not be developed in Croatia because, as some have now also said, railway transport in Croatia is not competitive. Surely it is difficult to be competitive because so far investment in the railway network was a drop in the sea needed for an outdated and lasting railway infrastructure which in Croatia was the result of political and economic goals from the end of the 19th century of the Austrian monarchy. But in order for this rail network and infrastructure to become competitive as soon as possible, we must and as much as possible start investing in this infrastructure to modernise and simply try to train our railways so that they are not as slow as they are now, so that at cca 20% of the railways in Croatia are not allowed speeds of 40 kilometers per hour until we know that in developed countries, that speed is even 300 kilometers per hour. Logically, we cannot expect this to happen overnight in Croatia. But we must certainly start this process of modernising the railways in Croatia because surely in recent years, the modernisation of the main corridor lines that connect with the railways of our neighbouring countries has started, and the link with the Croatian ports is I think investing in the golden coke of Croatia, which will certainly pay off over time. I also find it unusually important for the Republic of Croatia, to prepare to continue construction of the railway from Rijeka to Trieste, which solves the integration of Istria with the rest of the country. The great economic benefit would also be to connect the normal railway with the port of Trieste, Kopar, Rijeka, and also to the railways Krapina, Pragersko, Maribor, Graz, which would significantly increase the competitiveness of the 10th corridor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3547	Thank you. Dear Representative Petar Mlinaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3548	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a few words I'd say the same thing. I come from Vukovar-Srijem County, which represents the easternmost Croatian canton and is located in the area of Southeastern Slavonia and Western Srijem. There are important international land and river routes passing through the canton, divided into four cities and 26 municipalities. In cooperation with Croatian railways that accompanied market needs as well as at the request of many passengers, schools, institutions and business entities, keeping in mind that Baranja was a very important emotional area, adapting train schedules to make sure that most of our population was satisfied with the rail transport service. Statistical reports say they worked quality because the number of passengers sent year after year increased. However, as market needs grow, the necessary need for the development of rail transport is also imposed. In this area and urban and suburban transport that will best meet market requirements. The organisation of the rail, urban and suburban transport system at the relations of Vinkovci-Vukovar and Vukovar-Ilock and Ilock-Tovarnik will effectively connect those cities and, with corridor 10 and 5C, the entire railway system in Slavonia will rise to a high standard. The eastern Croatian area, which is currently isolated from the rest of Croatia, will solve the problem of its isolation. We therefore propose to build a 45km long line of Vukovar-Ilock, and Ilock would connect with Tovarnik with an additional 6km long railway line, i.e. the 10th corridor, which would mean the development of local rail transport in eastern Slavonia. Ilock has no railways, so the project would for the first time in history be attached to the Croatian railway system. Also, obtaining a railway and freight port in Ilock, which is now only connected by road roads, is a significant infrastructure project for Ilock for the reason that it will mark not only the transport link but also help the economy, agriculture and tourism as important industries in that area. The creation of an economic zone in Ilock, Lovas, will have much more prosperity if this area is connected with rail infrastructure. Since the financial resources are intended for the realisation of the introduction of the railway network in eastern Slavonia, we propose that the construction material to be changed be used on the Tovarnik-Ilock stock in order to reduce construction costs. This project requires financial resources, but it is generally accepted that investment is a capital asset which, with its development function, shows strong concern for the future. And when it comes to projects revitalising not only transport infrastructure but also affecting the general development of the economy of a particular region, such as in this case the development of the eastern part of Croatia, they are certainly important and priority. One of the projects in Vukovar-Srijem County that show excellent results and the fact that the eastern part of Croatia shows significant transport potential in September 2007 introduced a fast train on the route Vukovar-Zagreb-Vukovar, precisely with the aim of revitalising the entire area of Podunov. That train was introduced after 41 years. And I think it's really here, thanks to both the Ministry and the Croatian Railways for doing it for Vukovar. Finally, it is mentioned that the growth of road transport means is in an increasing conflict with the interests and needs of environmental protection and that further development of rail transport at urban levels and at the level of the whole country should be planned. I just have to say it's a big deal and a link to this Vukovar-Ilock railroad that goes through the settlements. Here, I will just list: The Mugoslavites, Jacob, Sothin, Grabbo, Miklushevi, the Tonkies, the Chakovites, the Jelash, the Hunter, the Sharengrad, the Mohovites. I think it's a big deal that all those settlements will have the power. And they'll be able to have a normal economic zone along with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3549	Thank you. Dear Representative Angelko Mihalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3550	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, fellow MPs! I will, above all, commend this National Programme of Railway Infrastructure for the period 2008 to 2012. Generally, Croatia must deal carefully with its resources and this means clear positions and relations between the transport branches and the full social responsibility of all participants in the decision-making process. The focus of the development of rail transport in Croatia is on the development of transport in pan-European corridors. Ports included. The railways in these directions form the most qualitative part of the Croatian railway network, but additional investment should be raised to the level of rail requirements on pan-European corridors. The application of the European Directives should contribute to the successful operation of railways and to rerouting some of the transport from road to rail. This proposal is an important document for the Croatian economy. The future railway infrastructure along with ports should be the skeleton of Croatia's economic development. The trans-European network and pan-European corridors have been set up so that there are several parallel directions that can meet the same traffic requirements. Therefore, rail transport routes in Croatia, along road and other modes of transport, have competition in railway corridors of neighbouring countries and beyond. I've heard that a lot of times today. It is therefore of great importance to invest in the construction, upgrade and modernisation of the main railway lines on the territory of the Republic of Croatia in a timely manner. The development of rail infrastructure must be a function of the country's sustainable and balanced development and its inclusion in the European Union's common market, while respecting the specificities arising from the geographical and geographical characteristics of the country. In order to comply with the European Community's policy on implementing sustainable development guidelines for the rerouting of heavy road loads to transport forms that are more environmentally acceptable transport, it is necessary to create conditions for combined transport to experience radical changes. In order to take advantage of the country's favourable position and the European trend to reroute freight from road to rail, the railways in Croatia must be modernised and new terminals built in accordance with state policy. Construction of intermodal logistics centres modelled by developed countries will play a multiple role in the Republic of Croatia. At these locations, manipulation and transfer of cargo between several modes of transport and means of transport will be carried out. Investment in the intermodal transport system components relating to rail infrastructure, which are foreseen by this national programme, improves its affirmation and development. The advantages of rail transport in relation to other transport branches are reflected in the following. First. Railway traffic requires three times less land space than road traffic, with approximately equal traffic load. Second. Energy consumption per unit of rail work is 3.5 times less than in road and passenger traffic, and 8.5 times less than in freight. The safety of passengers on the train is 24 times higher than in the car ride, and 2.5 times higher than the bus ride. Fourth. Railway transport emits 8.3 times less harmful substances in the environment than a personal car, and 30 times less than a freight vehicle for the same volume of transport. And the last. Load... The railroad towards the car is 10 times smaller. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Starting from these characteristics and specificity of rail transport, this national programme will launch an investment cycle that will, with the early start of the restructuring process, transform railways into a modern, technical and commercial system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3551	Thank you. Dear Representative Marin Brkarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3552	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I'll just say my personal opinions for a little while. First of all, I think this National Programme of Railway Infrastructure points above all to certain good intentions. Good intentions in the context of building, modernising, raising the level of safety on railway lines in the Republic of Croatia, certainly the adoption of the standard of technical and technological European Union and what is important is the rerouting of the part of traffic from roads to railways, which certainly contributes to the protection of the environment. I would stress the special importance of the development of railways to the overall development of the Croatian economy and so to the Istrian from the county from which I come. The second thing I would say is that 18 billion kuna is certainly not enough, the programme could be bigger, but since 88% of these funds in the structure of the state budget are certainly no longer available at this time, but it is worth making additional efforts to obtain funds from pre-accession funds planned with one billion kuna in this programme. And the third thing I would like to say, and there have already been a lot of speeches about the need for modernising railway lines in Istria and building a tunnel through Učka Club of IDS has been given the amendment that in this programme, since it is not especially in the financial part of the installation of a railway tunnel through Učka with access roads, means Opatija and Matulja, or Lupoglav, so that in that part I would accept the words of Minister Calmeta and Secretary of State that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will change the financial part of the programme itself and install Učka, meaning in the tunnel that connects the network of Croatian railways, because it is known that the railways in Istria are today separated, bound to Slovenian railways and in that part we welcome such access and we will support this national programme on condition that this part, which Minister Kalmeta stressed, which is that the construction of the Učka railway tunnel is built into the access lines in the programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3553	Thank you. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3554	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I'm really sorry there's no secretary of state in the hall. It's a good thing he's left an assistant minister, but I'm sorry he doesn't have the right to speak in the House, so when I ask the key question. Or is it? ... Great. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] There's no one from HH's office. So, we're talking about a program that will be used by national wealth resources later on by someone who manages the Croatian Railway Resorembs. I know, Mr. Assistant, that you know that the oldest railway in Croatia is the one that went from Budapest to Rijeka, i.e. Kotoriba-Cakovec-Zagreb. If you read this proposed programme closely, you will see that this railway, the oldest railway in Croatia, is dying and that in just ten years, they will probably not be able to drive to Zabok again, perhaps from Zabok to Zagreb. The train on that track from Čakovec to Zagreb and I was driving with him for the first time in 1960, then it was on the three and a half now, so much today, three and a half now, if not late, with a delay of four hours to a hundred kilometers. I can't get the impression when we talk about 8 billion state money that we're going to invest in rebuilding the construction of new railways that we're not talking with too much attention about how this wealth is used and available and I can't get the impression that HH administration doesn't care that there are passengers on one of these lines because then there's a later excuse and a proposal to lift, or close, or leave certain railways because there are no passengers on it. It is normal that people from Međimurje do not use the train to come to Zagreb if he travels for four hours. It is clear to me that if the speed limit is 40 kilometers on certain parts of that stock and that the train must then drive long, but I am saddened by the fact that this section of the railway, so Zagreb-Cakovec-Kotoriba, except for a little rave on the Čakovec-Kotoriba stock, is not planned for the next five, six years. And it is visible from this programme that there is or is a desire to develop an alternative direction and that is Čakovec-Varaždin-Koprivnica-Zagreb. And that's good because the train on that track from Čakovec to Zagreb is arriving in an hour and 50 minutes. There's three and a half hours here in an hour and a half, but the problem is that there's only one train a day on that line. In the morning he leaves Čakovec shortly before six and at about half past Zagreb for Čakovec. And it's normal that there won't be a lot of passengers because that doesn't suit those who would use the railroad as a transport. And when he returns from Zagreb and gets to Čakovec and no one will extend at least one car to Kotoriba and the lower part of Međimurje about 50% of the passengers but is left at the railway station in Čakovec to wait for another line that comes 45 just behind it. Evidence of the development of the alternative direction and the abandonment of this direction Čakovec-Varaždin-Zabok-Zagreb is visible on page 13, so please if I understand correctly that you confirm it to me or deny it. Point 3 as part of the construction and construction of railway infrastructure on railway lines of regional importance for transport reconstruction of the existing railway and construction of the second track on the railway section Koprivnica-Varaždin-Cakovec. So, this railroad gets, has regional significance and serves as a new, future or only link from Međimurje to Zagreb but the problem is that the reconstruction of Varazdin-Cakovec-Koprivnica writes in the next twenty years. I read before point 3 and above that point above is the plan for this reconstruction and training of the alternative direction to be planned over the next twenty years. On this section in this medium-term period it is planned to rebuild and repair the Križevci-Koprivnica stock which will probably be useful for those who use this direction, and that is good. But then, what about us? If it is not planned for 20 years for this direction to gain regional importance and enter into the Croatian Railway Investment Plans. Does this really mean that I read well that from what Međimurje was once best connected to Zagreb exactly the railway, and that is why the mass use of HZ is actually giving up that direction and in the next twenty years of significant progress we simply cannot expect. I'm seriously warning you about that fact, because the excuse is that there aren't enough passengers on some stock, after two years it serves as an excuse for the lines being cut, the tracks leaving and closing. I would not like to really get into the situation that Međimurje is completely cut off by rail, because I note that only one line traffics on the route Čakovec-Varaždin-Koprivnica-Zagreb daily and only on a working day, not on weekends. And if you are talking about the good management of the resources available to HZ, I believe that you agree with me that it is complete or as many passengers as possible, as well as the greater amount of goods of primary interest of those who manage Croatian railways. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3555	Thank you. Honorable representative of Luke Denon, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3556	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Let me also, with a brief reference to this National Programme of Railway Infrastructure, try to make a small contribution perhaps to some improvement that would in any case fit the moment at which this National Programme of Railway Infrastructure and bring it. First of all, let me say it. We have seen in this programme that these investment and railways are in some way distributed or distributed to railways of importance and to international transport, on railways of importance to regional and rail railways of importance to local transport. So let me say that, in order not to be only local, I try to say that the railway is Zagreb-Karlovac-Rijeka, a railway section on section 5... PAN of the European State Border Corridor Botovo-Koprivnica-Zagreb-Rijek, which connects Budapest with the Adriatic Sea. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What I will also say, colleagues and colleagues who do not know the Primorje-Gorski County but the Secretary of State or the Secretary of State, who propose such a national programme, should know that the Škrljevo-Bakar railway is also... Most rivers... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Connected railway lines 5... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] in the function of cargo loads at the Rijeka port. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also the railway Zagreb-Rijeka and Rijeka Šopena, Rijeka Šopjana, the state border... and an international connected railway line between 5 corridors and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 5... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] which connects or connects Rijeka with Europe via the Republic of Slovenia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we are at the beginning of this exhibition, my colleague, it seems to me, that my colleague said this was not the first proposal for a rail transport strategy, let me say that, that this was based on the guidelines for the development of the railway infrastructure that has been defined, and this strategy has not yet changed, the strategy of the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia, the programme of the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia and the strategy of the traffic development of the Republic of Croatia. And if these transport development strategies are defined the basic direction of development of the transport system of the Republic of Croatia, we still do not have complete information on the strategic guidelines for the development of railway infrastructure which would serve as a basis for the development of five-year development plans. Of course, it is necessary to point out, which is clear to everyone here that the railway has its basic role in meeting the requirements of transport terminals for freight transport. And what makes me happy lately and in strengthening the passenger component through the public transport of passengers. Now, for this quality planning of new railway infrastructure, it is essential to know first and foremost the development plans of these terminals, which are also why the railways are being served. In the area of the Primorje-Gorski County, the development plans of Rijeka's port administration are primarily understood. I'm sorry my colleague Pants aren't in the assembly right now, but I'm just gonna say what's official. And this is that years ago for the idea project of the Rijeka Railway Node, the main load generator was Rijeka's port. The expansion of port facilities in Bršica, Bakr and Rijeka was considered, as well as the construction of a new port in Krk and the connection of the railway. There is still today across the bridge, the Krk Bridge idea of bringing railways to the island of Krk in the spatial plan of the Primorje-Gorski County. Tens of millions.../The speaker went off, so he turned it back on./... and the projected railway infrastructure was capacitated, located and designed according to the forecasts and sources of these burdens. 30 million tonnes of cargo were expected annually at the port of Rijeka. What is important and important today to say is that today's plans and development plans of Rijeka's port administration are linked to the ten-year plan of development of Rijeka's port, which is, by its master plan, which defined in 2015, a 12.5 million net tonnes of cargo annually. It has given up the new port for the general cargo on the island of Krk, an important reduction in work in the port of Bakar is envisaged, and the construction of new... capacity in the city of Rijeka west of the existing port, so-called Zagreb's port which from the World Bank's loan at the moment is one big investment in the port of Rijeka. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And new, of course, ports, higher capacity in the Raša area, i.e. Bršica area. In this way, the focus of the work, i.e. the traffic from the eastern point of Rijeka, is moved to the central and western parts of the knot, which is normal because new port facilities are being made there. Such changes are due to the need to review the projected rail capacity in the eastern part, i.e. the route of the connecting lines, the Randifier station at... The tour rail around Rijeka, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the period up to 2020, such master plan envisions a further increase in traffic at an average annual rate of 6.7%. So make a total public break... the ports in 2020 amounted to 17,5 million tonnes, net annually. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is practically 2.5 times less compared to the work envisaged by the idea project of the Rijeka railway node. The share of the railway in the transport of Rijeka is about 80% today, and if the relationship is maintained in the future, a 10 million-tonne burden in 2015 and 14 million tonnes in 2020 could be expected on the railway, which is still a difference from those projected 17,5 million tonnes. And that is why I think that, at least to me, it is unclear why in the next five-year plan, I plan to invest significant financial resources to build the two-way railway line of Rijeka-Josipdol-Zagreb, capacity over 35 million tonnes per year and very good technical elements if we are not familiar with the complete input data related to the final loading plans of Rijeka's port. Of course with this, by showing real, real data and projected in the master plan of the Rijeka port of future cargo that will pass through the port of Rijeka, I'm not against the fact that this harbour is being built, that I'm not misunderstood. I'm just asking if it's time to build a track like that. And to confirm that I am for that railroad. And that this and the newly planned two-way line of Rijeka-Josipdol-Zagreb would achieve full traffic sense. Now I speak not in freight but in traffic. It is necessary to access the construction of a second railway station in Rijeka, with a significant increase in freight transport capacity, and to enable the active introduction of the railway into the public transport system of passengers for which it is necessary to plan and build a whole series of rail passenger stations with adequate facilities. That means you get into this... they must provide significantly higher funds for the reconstruction, modernisation and upgrade of the entire Rijeka railway node without which further plans of the Rijeka port system cannot be achieved. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For this reason, I would ask that in this strategy other than the station, as a hub is mentioned station of Rijeka, a test other than the Zagreb node should include the termology of the railway node of Rijeka because it is not only the place to which the railway will come but he for this reason that I said earlier should have that name because it is actually a real railway node. Of course, in any case, last time I said that we were, I had an objection because it's a highway, it's said it's coming to the river. I also did not accidentally say such an objection because at the moment when this new track is planned, it is planned to Krasica, not Rijeka. That's why this hub is important to make it to that zero quota to the river after all. And, of course, as time slowly expires on me and to say something else, let me also ask that if possible in this national programme, what is written here on page 13 under the rails of importance for local traffic also to what my colleague also said to Opatija, Matulj and the Lučka-Lupoglav tunnel, Trieste, I think that in that, in this whole point of the River River railway is of importance for international traffic and therefore I would like to appeal if this plan is possible in some way to work and that it corresponds to the actual data and acceptable and in the future acceptable burdens that we will transport through the Rijeka port and that first satisfy then and those capacities that are planned,... tourism. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not to build something that will not have its economic justification, but when the time comes. And I'd like to pray if it's possible, I'm sorry, the electrification of this existing section of the old railroad, of course we welcome it with all our hearts, but please stretch it in five years. I think five years of repairing something, electricity repairing is an inaccessible long period so that it can really end in one year because, in part, in 5 years there is a railway that is the oldest railway in Croatia, so here it is not, it is not permissible. I think he can get rid of it first. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3557	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Plasimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3558	Well, my colleague Denon, I'd like to repeat what I said in the debate. So this does not really initiate the construction of new railways because they should have already been completed according to the amendments I have endured, which the government has persistently refused over the past 4 years with the reason that what I am asking to build the second track on the 5B rail section is embedded in the budget of the Croatian Railways. And now that I mention it, then I'd like to point out a historical fact here. So the first track of the railway was built, released in 1870 and built in a shorter period than the Croatian railways are predicted to build the second track. Austro-Hungarian was obviously a little more efficient than we are. We then received a hospital in Koprivnica because a lot of workers who worked on the construction of that route were getting better, so they had to build a hospital, preparing and expecting it to be, starting to build the second track in 2005 we built a new hospital in Koprivnica. We have a hospital, but unfortunately, by this point, the second track has not begun to be built.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3559	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Luke Denon.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3560	Of course, a colleague said that these plans, there are already many years, and it is good that these plans exist and I am glad that in this House's assembly, a programme like this has come to us, which may have been done in a hurry in my court, but with one piece of work, I think it would fit the space, and space, but also the burdens and passengers who, and the needs in the Republic of Croatia, have obviously grown. But I'd like to take care of those burdens I talked about a little while ago. And I'm asking if it's in any way possible to define in these strategies where is Ucka tunnel? Where's the Ucka tunnel? There are Chicari and Učka in spatial documents and strategies. There is somewhere if we all remember the late President is, the first president of the Republic of Croatia has already started building that Ucka tunnel somewhere. Please, let's talk about where he is. Chicharia's up there somewhere, Ucka's down there somewhere. It should be defined in these spatial plans or strategies where it will be on the lowest possible quota so that it will then be somewhere in the Croatian Railways through the Učka and Istria tunnel without travelling from Istria via Slovenia to Croatia or the city of Zagreb. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3561	Thank you. Honorable representative Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3562	Thank you, Vice President. As a person interested in the issue of environmental protection with great interest and enthusiasm, and even hope for the news that in the parliamentary procedure there was a document that I had hoped for the development of the railroad. As is likely to be known to everyone and, on this point, some of the debates so far have been primarily road traffic for a number of years the largest environmental pollutant in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, and I think we all agree, it is more welcome for the development of the railway in Croatia as the most promising alternative means of transport, an eco-friendly means of transport. But he's already looked at the name of this document himself, and he's embarrassingly surprised me. On behalf of a document called the National Programme of Railway Infrastructure for the period 2008 to 2012 there is no mention of the word development, which in itself is already ringing for the alarm. Why? Because the content of this document is so unambitious that even the proposings were clear that it would not be right to put a term of development, the development of the railway infrastructure that we need in parallel with the modernisation of the Railway so much. We also need the development of rail infrastructure because of the development of our economy, for which the development of transport infrastructure is a fundamental prerequisite. We also need it to protect the environment more effectively as a constant long-term goal for our country. Because it is precisely the progress of the economy with parallel environmental protection that involves the realisation of a sustainable development policy for Croatia, which at least has a declaration of consensus of all political options in Parliament. And now I'd like to say something about the document itself or its contents. It is the impression that objectives and obligations are mixed in the document. That the objectives of the document have become our obligations towards the European Union or the introduction of certain standards on individual corridors, corridors that are interesting to international carriers so that they can be transported by their significantly more modern and quality trains than those of our own. And that worries because the modernisation of our railroad has stopped. What does that mean exactly? This means that our railways will soon be transported by foreign carriers whose Croatian railways will not be able to compete with their own service or their own price. Some of the objectives of the document are invaluable, and perhaps better to be invaluable. This refers in particular to the realization of a railway line called Rijeka – Zagreb, although it is not. When implementing projects such as this, it is necessary to carry out a series of studies on the impact of projects on the environment and a cost-effectiveness study of such a project prior to the final decision on the project. This shows whether the benefit for the community and investors in this case is such as to justify the damage the implementation of such a project will bring to the environment. The question arises whether the Rijeka – Zagreb railway is such a project, because for its realization the procedures in the environment are very large, the damage by nature and natural resources is as huge as the price of such a project. And that's just to build the high-speed rail at which our trains have nothing to look for and by which more than 2,000 passengers should be translated daily to make it worthwhile. Do we really have needs like this? As far as freight transport is concerned, the capacity of Rijeka Luka is not such as to justify the realization of such a project that is very destructive to the environment. On the other hand, the programme is predicting again, I stress again, the construction of the railway Subsused – Samobor – Bregana, railways under which trains were already to be transported according to previous plans. The project has a great ecological and economic benefit due to the large number of passengers who would travel daily on the route leaving their car at home, but the project is so sloppyly preparing that the big question is whether the railway will be driven by trains in five years. And therefore, although any document aimed at increasing the importance of rail transport in Croatia and because of its ecological and economic dimension, of course, this programme is welcome in its current form, I cannot support it. The railway infrastructure development programme is certainly necessary, but its serious improvements and corrections are needed based on real analyses of passenger and goods transport, as well as the forecasts of the consequences that will result from the implementation of this programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3563	Thank you. Honorable representative Tanja Vrbat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3564	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished fellow MPs, fellow MPs and MPs, representatives of the government. Today we have a proposal for a National Railway Infrastructure Programme for the period from 2008 to 2012. It's one of the strategic documents and a reluctance of the government that, in my own court, indicates that the government has no clear picture of how and in what direction to develop our country. A proposal that neither the profession nor the railway unions have spoken of and many of my predecessors in this debate. The proposal of the National Railway Infrastructure Programme highlights the development of international corridors and rail routes, which is certainly necessary and commendable. However, he points out that the development and restoration and modernisation of regional and local railway infrastructures, which was also much said today, are being neglected. In particular, the integration of these corridors with local environments is neglected. It is precisely regional and local rail transport that our citizens and citizens are most engaged in and that would contribute most to the even regional development of our country and its economy. But specifically, in the case of this program, me personally, and I believe other citizens and citizens of Istria are most surprised by the following thing, and that is as many of my colleagues before me have spoken the train tunnel through Učka. I would like to remind you that in November of last year, Prime Minister Sanader announced and promised to build a train tunnel through Učka during a pre-election campaign in the full pulse home of sports in front of thousands of people with a direct TV transmission during this eclatant violation of the Law on Electronic Media at the time of the local television promotion campaign. I was, of course, pleasantly surprised at the time, and this proposal was found further in the HDZ programme for past parliamentary elections, it was found in the coalition agreement of the ruling coalition, and then found itself in the government programme, and so on page 27 of the Railway Transport Department quotes the construction of a railway tunnel through Učka and the connection with Pula. But that train tunnel is just a dead letter on paper, because there is not a single kuna planned for it in our proposal today. Now let me get into the history of the disease. The construction of the tunnel through Učka began early in 1951 near Poljana near Opatija, and immediately thereafter the mechanism of the then JNA that began to build this retreated. Then, in 1993, the late President Dr. Franjo Tudjman opened a tunnel construction site through Učka, and that construction site was then closed after a few days. The need to build such a railway tunnel was first mentioned to me in June of 1864 at an Istrian assembly in Poreč. The Istrian economy is very damaged because of the indirect railway connection with the rest of Croatia, i.e. by reaching Zagreb and Rijeka, Pula or Luka Bršica, which is also mentioned here can only be reached through Ljubljana. Connecting the Istrian railways with Rijeka is the primary task of Croatian railways. The construction of the new two-way track Zagreb – Rijeka and the reconstruction of the Rijeka railway node and the merger of the Istrian railway lines across the Učka tunnel makes the long-term backbone of the railway network of southwestern Croatia. And I will again point out that Istria is extremely traffic-insulated from the rest of the country, and rail transport as the most environmentally acceptable traffic on the Istrian peninsula almost does not exist. The development of rail passenger and freight transport in Istria would contribute to the further development of its tourism if this would be a cheaper substitute for lack of air traffic, and through Trieste and Rijeka, for example, from Hungary, Italy and Slovenia tourists could easily reach our tourist destinations. But also our citizens travel these routes and rail hubs further across Europe and Croatia. But it may be more important than that to build a railway tunnel through Učka, i.e. Chicago and build the relevant railway infrastructure to Pula and, for example, again the port of Bršica would open up the possibility of specialising smaller ports that would make them finally competitive and economical again, thus contributing to the entire Croatian economy. The breakthrough of the second tunnel pipe through Učka and the development of railway traffic on the Istrian peninsula must be the priority of every Croatian government, but not only on paper as it is in the programme of this current government, as citizens and citizens of Istria and its visitors cannot travel anywhere as far as the railway is concerned. From concrete and functional passenger trains in Istria we only have those small tourist trains that travel from the beach to the beach on our Rivieras. And I will join my colleague, Brkaric, who welcomed the initiative, I would say Minister Kalmeta, who said he would include that tunnel in this railway infrastructure programme, but if I do not believe it so that the Deputy Prime Minister Polancec, who is in charge of implementing the coalition agreement and thus its implementation through the government programme, will point out that this is one of the future many deviations from his own programme. The tunnel through Učka and its connection with the railway to Pula really needs to be realized, i.e. concretely materialized. Gentlemen, I invite you to bring this proposal into line with the opinion of the profession, the real needs of local environments and the Croatian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3565	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3566	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues right at the beginning of the afternoon session of my debate, I said that the precise development of the characteristics of this programme is the development of local railways which are of interest to local self-government units, which is visible from this programme. I was talking about the Beelic-Banov Jaruga railroad, i.e. Pacrac-Lipik-Virovica. The railway that was supposed to be closed in 2000-2003, this is exactly the way the programme will experience modernisation and will remain in the programme of the meanings of the Croatian Railways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3567	This isn't a correction to an incorrect quote. You've come forward to correct the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3568	The correcting of the incorrect assumption is that the lady said she was not investing in the local railways.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3569	Okay that, you just have to always point out I'm correcting that and that incorrect quote, this is how it turns out to be quite...... It's been taken care of, isn't it? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's too quietly rehabilitated. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Dear Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3570	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President in this new council, dear colleagues and colleagues. Okay, but we'll leave that for your memoirs. Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs, and I mean Assistant Minister or Secretary of State. Since this House, therefore the Croatian Parliament in 2003, adopted a plan for modernising Croatian railways, and since this is the year 2008 when it is national, the proposal for a national railway infrastructure programme for the period from 2008 to 2012, the only thing that has changed in these five years is that the number of state secretaries has increased, but also the number of ministerial assistants in the ministry concerned. I really don't care what happened between 45 and 90 from 90 to 2000 from 2000 to 2003. This programme itself is indeed one of the most important strategic issues of the development of the Republic of Croatia, and this programme is indeed not ambitious in this way, given that the programme itself says that it would be achieved in three to four medium-term periods. So it's been somewhere including this program for about 25 years. Without a full analysis of what will happen with transport infrastructure not only in the territory of Croatia but also in the area of Europe, and in this environment of the Balkans, I think that this programme must primarily go into one analysis and one completion. Because it might happen to us instead of, for example. Luke Ploče, Luke Rijeka and these of our river ports such as Vukovar, Osijek, Ilok, Slavonski Brod, Croatia's main port, regardless of these problems regarding the recognition or non-recognition of Kosovo, our main port, the Croatian port becomes Belgrade. I don't mean no association in some new Balkan associations, but simply this programme should take 25 years. There's a basic problem with this program. I would also agree with Minister Calmet who, unfortunately, is no longer present here today, when in the beginning, there is probably a man of business, when at the beginning of his presentation he said he would accept all the good proposals that come from this assembly, which meant simply to me that this was one first reading of this national programme and I think that this is the basis of this debate to simply come to a common consensus. However, in this debate, just to give that particular incentive regarding the financing of these billions involved in the development of railway infrastructure, I must note that it is precisely the smallest contribution of the European Union, not only of pre-accession funds, but of the European Union participating with only 5.5% of the funds, i.e. only about one billion kuna, and from pre-accession European Union funds. Otherwise, this ratio in the European Union countries is up to 75% where the European Union is financing such projects. He would return, given that this tunnel is also needed through Cicaria or through Učka, I also learned the emphasis. I'd owe it a little Slavonicly. But he would go back to his Slavonia, where simply with a few questions, questions related to the pan-European corridor or branch of the PC corridor that goes from Osijek via Djakova, Strizivojna and Vrpolje, and binds down through Bosnia and Herzegovina to the port of Ploče and comes from Budapest. I hope that these trilateral talks that are related to both Hungary and Bosnia and Herzegovina have been made, so that it does not happen similar to that of building highways so that Croatia simply builds its part of the infrastructure until Hungary and Bosnia and Herzegovina do so for various reasons. And they are now directing both road and especially Hungary and in particular Europe to other corridors. This is a question that is related to the construction itself, since, therefore, the only part that has been made so far has only been the modernisation of one section of the rail line from the Strysivojna towards the border, according to Vrpol, it is combined for those who do not know. I don't have the exact amount of information that's been spent. However, in the 2003 Croatian Railway Modernisation Programme, there was just the construction of PC corridors that are also related to the removal of the entire railway line from the city of Đakova, the construction of a new station with two lanes that are also connected to transport and freight, as well as passenger lines. Has there been a change of this programme, a construction programme since it was one of the main projects in eastern Croatia or in all of Slavonia that would allow not only the development of that part of Croatia, but also allow far greater employment in Slavonia? At this point, apart from the part that is bound and reconstructed, we still have stations in the entire Slavonia and Baranja, starting with Osijek, Vinkovac, Vukovar, Đakov, Slavonski Brod, which is something more modern, we have stations from the time of Mary Teresa. And the only thing that isn't and no longer dates back from that time is that someone, even though Djakovo has his own ergel, would drive you to that station instead of a taxi or a private car. These stations are neither suitable for the accommodation of passengers, are neither suitable for the transport of cargo nor are those railways safe. As far as that corridor is concerned, I'm glad it's going to invest, but this is still, it's only about the reconstruction of that part, not the construction of the real corridor. I would invite all State Secretarys, all ministerial assistants and the Minister himself to sit on the station there of Strizivojna-Vrpolje, to take a walk through Osijek and to look at all the road crossings that there are to Djakov a few dozen who do not have a mustache, they don't even have Andrija's cross. And he's going to ride those old shinobuses there from the time he was here, and the vice president of the Parliament lived in Osijek. And I'm in Djakov. Or back in '72. The year Queen Elizabeth visited the city of Djakov. ... That's what I don't know. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3572	I remember. She was Queen Elizabeth. Then we were driving, we were driving in the carriage.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3573	Well, she was driving in a carriage, and some of them were coming into town with those boots, weren't they?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3574	In the trunks, the car didn't...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3575	Since you're gonna distract me so I won't finish anyway, so you're gonna break up...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3576	I won't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3577	In any case, my proposal is, however, one constructive proposal that would go towards not only Slavonia but also all parts of Croatia to simply take this material with all these proposals that have been heard today back to completion, to achieve one consensus about this national programme, because this is one of the most important programs that goes towards the development of the entire Croatia. I'll just answer if you let me do that to Mr. Lobster. They didn't defend Slavonia, not the railroads, not the roads, but the Slavonian people, and in Djakov, the boys from Toma's oak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3578	That's right, fellow Vinkovic. You're absolutely right. But I also remember Queen Elizabeth. We remember. That was the end of the last century. I couldn't be back then, but... Dear Representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3579	Dear Mr. Vice President! Otherwise, when I was a kid, when I looked at you at the Parliament, you were the president so that it might be very easy for me to slip away to call you president. I hope you don't mind. I'll go a little differently in this debate...... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] In the early 19th century, when nations were formed, then the railroad had a function to integrate nations into what it had succeeded in. And Tsar Russia has sold part of the territory in time to build a link, what has united the continent of Eurasia and what unites it today. So it was in Europe, so it was in France, so it was in Germany, so it began to be in Croatia. But what I'm saying is that when French President Nicolas Sarkozy opened the fastest train a month ago and the fastest stock in the world was familiar with certain things, French railways were familiar with certain things. This was the plan to make the fastest route more economical, to make the fastest route double the number of passengers in the next period, to know from this study and this project how much money is at the end, to know what the French export product is and to know what the largest energy giant in Europe can offer to its citizens but also what it can make money on. A similar example comes from Spain representing Siemens’s fastest train in the world that should go 500 kilometers an hour. The Japanese are not in vain the greatest export power. They based their rail transport on the volcanic island on cost-benefit analysis, based on developmental and careful study of what this rail transport meant for them, meaning for their ports and their citizens. What I object to this document is a lack of deadlines, a lack of deadlines, therefore, and a lack of responsibility. It's nice to have a wish list, it's nice to have certain budget items and it should and should always be invested more in the railway. However, if you do not have deadlines to complete certain projects, you have no responsibility. In some discussions before me, it was about how many miles of new railways would be built and then the tones from 20 miles [20 km] to 60 km [60 km] appeared. In principle, both are small and not enough. And that second route of the new track to Rijeka, which is talked about along those 60 kilometers if we plan to and will not be able to be completed in the next four years. What is important and what should be given a special emphasis that part and a large part of these funds will remain to increase the costs of the administration and the costs itself, means the additional costs of the Croatian railway itself. Unfortunately, I wish I could read a systematic plan, a mission and a goal of individual development and a segment of a particular railway line. It's not good to build a new railroad, have old trains, not take new trains that will drive along the old railroad. However, strategic objectives should be defined and developed in at least one part. What are the strategic objectives of transporting passengers? That's what's missing, it's not there. This should be accompanied by adequate income growth for Croatian railways to finally become profitable in one future. Unfortunately, however, the World Bank, in a PAL2 monitoring mission from 11 to 15.6.2007, notes that productivity has fallen and that costs are higher and with this higher cost increase and lower productivity, it is difficult for us to plan more important investment in infrastructure with these increased resources. So what we need but it's a common interest and there is no need to party about it and there is no need to have opposing opinions about it. In this respect, it is necessary to agree on what strategic objectives are in passenger transport and what are strategic objectives in freight transport. They should be set even if they are guilty, even if they are full but should be set because only on the basis of strategic goals, only on the basis of a specific item you can ultimately know whether or not you have succeeded on the basis of deadlines and only on the basis of responsibility can be measured by success or failure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3580	Thank you. Dear Representative Nevio Šetić. The representative is not present, losing the right to debate on this agenda point. Honorable representative Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3581	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and fellow representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. As it has already been clear from these previous discussions, I am mostly in the debates focusing on the local part, so we are going to do it now. As my esteemed colleague Culjak said earlier to come from Vinkovci, to be in the Croatian Parliament and not to participate in the debate on Croatian railways would be an unforgivable sin for all Vinkovci. It is true that Vinkovci are also known for their synonyms and today exists in the heads of Vinkovchan as a city of railways. I therefore believe that many of my citizens from Vinkovac and colleagues of Culka are informed about today's debate, or the topic of today's debate, so if they are not in a position to follow it directly now, then they will likely be informed of what was in this afternoon's term. So here I am in my debate focusing precisely on the topic, which is the place of the Vinkow railway hub in the National Railway Infrastructure Programme. Namely, the Vinkovič railway hub is currently represented and was especially represented before the Homeland War with Zagreb's most important railway hub in Croatia. For the illustration of the 1980s, more than three hundred trains and hundreds of freight trains were trafficked over 24 hours during the last century. It was almost every few minutes that some train got in and out of the station so there were those people who were coming to the station to sit down and watch the trains go by because it was one of the parties of people who had some extra time. Such a system as the Vinkovci railway hub was a strong driving potential for the development of Vinkovci, which employs more than 3,000 and 500 workers of different types and levels of expertise. Following this, he also existentially provided a large number of families who had some of their members in the system. It was rare in Vinkovci to find someone who didn't work on his railroad. Unfortunately, war destruction, the devastation of railway infrastructure and other similar negative circumstances have resulted in a major change in this situation. Daily traffic in the freight sector is so much lower in the passenger section today. True, the situation improves slightly year after year, but all of this still cannot be measured with prewar conditions. But what is definitely undisputed despite everything negative is several facts related to the Vinkovci railway hub. So first, the Vinkovci railway hub, which in the right sense is because directly in the Vinkovic station of cross 6 railways of different categories, it could also be called a railway crossing, is an important point both in Croatia and in the European railway network. Vinkovce passes through earlier exhibitions mentioning the long-term 10th pan-European corridor Salzburg-Solun. Although the Vinkovci are not on this transverse branch of Corridor 5C which we have also heard several times, which goes from Budapest to Ploč, the Vinkovci-Osjek railway which was spoken of by fellow Kuljak therefore the Vinkovci were joined with that corridor as soon as the railway was given significance as part of the so-called ". A green-blue transverse that also has exceptional significance for the Bosnian-Herzegovina economy. Fourthly, the Vinkovci-Brčko track provides a direct link to the economically important Tuzlan swimming pool from where the route to Doboj is enabled to connect to the above mentioned 5C corridor. The Vinkovci-Vukovar-Virkovar-Virkovar-Virkovar-Farther track has been enabled to connect with the Vukovar port, which is now located on the pan-European river corridor. This railway is already in existence and will certainly make for even more intense freight traffic in the future. No less importantly, this railway across the Far Away represents a connection with Vojvodina whose significance should also not be ignored. The Vinkovci-Zupanja railway is used by residents of local units but its real importance is actually being expressed during the seasonal agricultural works particularly related to the county sweetener, which is currently the most significant economic factor in Vukovar-Srijem County. In addition to the station’s Vinkow railway hub, there are also significant range capacities currently almost out of operation. But which represents significant potential for the development of freight traffic. Taking into account all of this previously said, therefore these facts that are irrefutable regardless of the state in which they are presently found, it is clear to me personally but I believe a lot more citizens of Vinkovci and all those places that gravitate to Vinkovci, who have given their people their time at the Vinkovnik-rail hub, are interested in what I can expect from the proposed programme. I welcome the part in this programme that speaks precisely of the parts that are in a certain way touching the Vinkovci Vinkovci rail hub, expecting that this proposed programme will at least partially improve the current situation of the Vinkovci railway hub and thus give a certain incentive to the economic development of the city as well as to improve the lives of the Vinkovec citizens and those places that engravite the Vinkovci. I'd like to propose a few additions to this proposed program. I would like to propose a more significant investment than proposed in the reconstruction and modernisation projects of the Osijek-Vinkovci and Vinkovci-Drenovci railways, which has a follow-up to Brcko and I have previously told the Tuzla Basin and with the aim of creating an alternative corridor to 5C, which, due to its proximity and good connections, can especially be expressed by further development and increasing the capacity of the Vukovar port. This would, of course, avoid these further 30km of links to Vrpolje via pan-European corridor 10 or to Osijek because the corridor that would be the alternative would go much closer. And secondly, I would suggest a more significant investment in the construction and modernisation of Vinkovci and Vukovar railway hubs. Because the Vinkovci and Vukovar as rail hubs are complementary. Therefore, they should not be seen as individual but as complementary railway hubs and as the main centres of rail infrastructure in the Croatian East with the prospect of taking key positions in the further development of Southeast Europe's railways. So we from the east of Croatia are looking at this locally, but what Vinkovci sees in terms of rail infrastructure is locally important for all of Croatia, so I would say about this part of Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3582	Thank you. Dear Representative Shimo Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3583	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian state has invested in road infrastructures in the past and today it does this where we can deal with the road infrastructures of the most modern states of Europe and as far as Croatian highways, Croatian roads and county and local roads are concerned. There are significant funds invested. There is little work left to do to bring the south and east of Croatia together and then we have to maintain these important road corridors. But hand to heart, I believe that everyone with me will agree that when it comes to rail infrastructure in, from the existence of the Croatian state for various objective reasons in railway infrastructure lately, our hands on the heart have not been significantly invested. So I personally think we don't have time to wait. If this material ahead of us all had to adopt, we all must, I suggest we adopt it so that we don't wait so as soon as possible, with the renovation and modernisation of existing corridors and the construction of new railway corridors. I would like to mention to the promoters that, with the 10th pan-European corridor, there is one significant hub in Slavonski Brod. It's a car repair and a locomotive. It's a super-modern car wash with super-modern equipment with everything, respecting all the ecological standards for such a type of laundry that will follow the wagons of the tanker and truck of the tanker. In it the Croatian State, the budget was invested by 67 million kuna and I am asking for the trials here, the tests were carried out to start and function at full capacity. Along with the car repair factory itself, there are dear friends, ladies and gentlemen of the oldest Croatian car factory in this part of Europe, and that is what the first Croatian car factory used to be called. The other day, she celebrated 87 years of existence. Today "Djuro Djakovic" brand of Brod-Posavina County and those track vehicles, the factory has fusiond with a special vehicle factory within the holding company "Djuro Đaković". The plant has been modernised. There are 480 employees, about 5 hundred, and they can say that for the needs of Croatian railways they are pleased to complete all contracts and that the last contract of 120 wagons was handed over 2 months before the agreed deadline and that the same factory signed a contract for the construction of a fighting armored vehicle. I ask the promoters that this significant hub on me in Slavonski Brod and when it comes to cars and washrooms and when it comes to car repairs not being used enough, that not all of those facilities that are there are not used enough. And on this occasion I would like to thank the Government of the Republic of Croatia for issuing guarantees to the Croatian Railways for the construction of a car in a special vehicle factory in Slavonski Brod. And one more request to reconnaissance in Slavonski Brod, in the very town of Slavonski Brod so-called. The famous Osijek Street. We have provided a study of Osijek Street, a county road that intersects the 10th pan-European corridor that is more closed a noose on the ramp than open, that by common means and investment both Croatian railways and Croatian roads, we are also willing to assist in the city and county budget to build either a underpass or an overpass depends on how the profession is assessed and evaluated. And not to repeat what my colleagues in the debate have already highlighted is important to set priorities for those spring routes that will be renovated, modernised. We say that in Slavonia where the rails will pass to meet the standards to go along with that economic logic that when the funds are invested here with a reasonable time for them to return. And also when it comes to new, building new spring routes to do the same methodology. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3584	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Ratko Gajica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3585	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to say a few sentences about this document. First of all, I think it's a good thing that this big and important topic came to this House's agenda because it's a very important question that we finally have to start and start thinking about it in a way that a colleague did just before, if he could say how we got into the construction of the highway. I think it would be easy to agree that this is an important topic big by volume, especially by money, because it's a huge mechanism that is difficult and difficult to run and maintain. In short, it's a big bite, but no matter how much it takes to get into it. However, it is a great bite that shows the challenge and the difficulties we face in this regard. The strategy as defined in this material assumes that I now simplify it, assumes a vision of the development of Croatian Railways on these issues of maintenance, regulation of transport, modernisation of the facility, new construction, etc. Now I'm counting it because in itself it says how much money it takes and how much it takes for organisations, how much it takes for it to persist, and finally how much time it takes. Now, I'm going to say something I think is also talking about difficulties in this matter. It's about the stretch we've got now. What is the state of the railway today in the infrastructure and I would say to the railways at all I'm talking about obsolescence, devastation, high costs, low levels of cost, productivity, whatever you want with the burden of past and psychological and this other. On the one hand, and the goal that we have to modernize all of this is, in my opinion, a major stretch, and that also says that we are ahead of a big task. Now, according to this material, if I'm talking about the price of the project, then the material is talking about a lot of money, it's about how you need a full action with strong support. Someone here said that we'd all stand behind it together and that it's written here for several medium-term periods, several medium-term periods. This means that it is also a task that extends to an extremely long period of time, and we should know in advance as much as possible what will happen in that time and with what effects. That's why I'm here to say that there seems to be a flaw in the material that I want to explain this way. I don't think this strategy has enough detailed explanations how to implement this broad action. So there is not enough argument as to how successful this will be, how much this will be in the function of overall social development, how complementary it will be to the economic plans, how much this will ultimately be in the function of balanced development of the Republic of Croatia. I repeat, you could, of course, point out to me the most likely definitions here, the explanations that speak about this, but it seems to me especially because of this several medium-term period that there is not enough argument that will make us sure that we are getting into this, certain that this will be realized. And one more thing I've seen here, or I've heard, that refers to the length of the railroad. I don't know if that's true, but you can talk about the 2700 kilometers that go into this whole process, so what's in the observation of this strategy. It's 1900 kilometers in corridors. And now what does that mean in the corridors? This means that, as I would say, they are in the European rail system, in the system of that interest. If so, this means that we have a huge task ahead of us which will be dictated both in terms of investment and in terms of degree of completion and functioning. And on the other hand, I heard another piece of information saying that one third of the network's completed should be able to rent by 2010 or behind that total network by 2012. I know it's pretty easy to score some years and some forecasts, but in order for the railway in Croatia to be rented to European railways, that means there has to be a high level of safety. That means it has to be modern. To get to that at this age, then it's inconsistencies with those several medium-term periods, and there's another thing that seems important to me, which I'm kind of interested in, and I didn't see it. If this is in the corridors of Europe, then how much we are able to use what is called pre-accession funds to invest in the railway as a common value again, a common function of the entire European system. Just because it's a big subject and because it's a huge bite, it somehow seems to me that in this material a higher degree of argument, better prognosis, some colleagues have talked about tasks and deadlines and even that. That's why I say what's very important and what's huge, I wish there was just that because a man has the feeling that a lower degree of security is that we're going to realize this without it. Now again about this condition of ours. According to what they say, the costs of the current railway mechanism are so structured that the highest cost is labour costs. That must also change. You know what kind of situation we're in with the expectations of train stations, the end of the tradition of railways not doing it. There are various fractures possible. There's all kinds of mentalities again. You know, I'm on the side now that I'm looking, the railroad is a mechanism for myself, a bit closed. There's a lot of familiality out there, there you have, people get used to that mechanism I don't have to do much, it just rots all by itself, I'll earn a salary. All that needs to be changed. After all, the railroad has, as it is said, a psycho test for a detour, which should then be only for the personnel who run not only the main ones but also many others who run this and such complex development mechanism that we want to achieve with this strategy. I'm going to repeat all of this because of what I just said earlier. I wish there were more quality arguments here which this strategy will eventually come out when we get the result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3586	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, five minutes, Mr. Representative Željko Vincelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3587	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, and I will finally repeat that the Croatian People's Party considers investment in rail infrastructure in the full sense of the word investment in economic development. This national programme is certainly a step forward and is a completely new phase in the development of the Croatian transport system because the focus of transport capital investment is being transferred from the highway to a completely neglected railway infrastructure. I recall the last new railways were built in Croatia 40 years ago. With this five-year national programme, we will get a modern-day renewed railway connecting the west with the east of Croatia, we will get a refurbished existing railway from Hungary to Zagreb and a brand-new low track from Zagreb to Rijeka. The main remarks of the Croatian People's Party stand after all these discussions and we would like them to be respected. These are the need to get an additional analysis of the projected investment in the maintenance and management of rail infrastructure and the turnover of 5.4 billion kuna within 15 days, we believe that it is a real deadline. The need to get a list of possible railways that will not be invested or invested in maintenance will be closed, we again believe that it is a 30-day deadline. To supplement the program with investments in the security area, i.e. in all railway and pedestrian crossings insurance devices, this must be a Croatian priority because human life has no price. Then to complement the programme with procedures important from the international and regional point of view and more investment in Zagreb-Rijek's node in the second colossium of Zagreb-Sisak, in the electrification and remont of Zagreb's ring, in a stronger organisation of the suburban crossing in cities such as Split, Osijek, Vinkovci, but also the maintenance and modernisation of so-called. local railways that have exceptional importance for the local economy and the population. The sources of funding for these additional investments should be part of the privatisation of some of the accompanying activities of the Croatian Railways, but much of the country's efforts to use the European Union funds are needed. We cannot allow such a project that is important to us, but certainly to Europe, to be funded with an incomplete 6% of the European Union funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3588	Thank you very much. And finally, on behalf of the ministry and government, Mr Branimir Jerneic, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3589	I would like to thank Mr. President, distinguished MPs and MPs. First of all, let me thank you for the debate that took place today, for your great participation in the debate, and first of all, I would like to thank the Assembly Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and the link that has supported this programme with its unanimous decision. There's been a lot of talk about him. I would return to the beginning where we started from our opening presentation that this is a programme in which more than 40 distinguished experts from the Croatian Railways participated, and the starting points have been taken over since the beginning of the meanings of European policy, internationally signed agreements, and also the strategic documents already adopted in the Republic of Croatia. This National Programme will build a completely new 265km track, and will modernise, reconstruct the 450km of existing railways. In order not to be confused, the reconstruction of the railway is actually a general remont of construction in most of the new railway along the existing route, because railways have long been present in our areas. Not as highways and road construction program that was actually launched in the Republic of Croatia 12 years ago. Where we met 12 years ago with a road construction program, today we can say that we are meeting with a railway infrastructure construction program. It was in this segment that the discussions on these programmes were likely 12 years ago and also extensive and went to great lengths. We often seek our local interest in the segment of the national strategy. We can say that they too will be satisfied with the document adopted after the adoption of this National Programme, and it is called the Annual Roadmap for the construction of railway infrastructure, which, on the proposal of HZ Infrastructure, is brought by a resolution minister of transport in Croatia. When we divide the number of 265 kilometers of railways into 5 years of the duration of this National Programme and divide the number of 450 kilometers of reconstructed railways into 5 years of the duration of this programme, we can say that we are going to build 50 kilometers of new railways annually and that we are going to reconstruct a total of 90 kilometers of rails annually. That's a lot more than we've done in previous periods. I don't want to be critical of the previous government or praise the last government, but I must say that we started with 3 billion kunas of realising investment cycles in the pre-government term. We have significantly increased this through the mandate of the last government, and by 2.3 times, we have increased that amount to 8 billion kuna. Today it was said that we were investing too little. The amount of 8 billion kuna is what the railway technology is today for executive investment with this five-year construction plan, the maintenance of the railway infrastructure, we raise to a total of 18 billion kunas or more 2.8 times more. The income structure also opened a debate on European funds. We can say that we planned them in the gauges of what we know to be a reality, and these are pre-accession funds. This document does not contain what the debate was about, and these are cohesion funds, but they are only reached for the Republic of Croatia at the moment of entry into the European Union. I would like once again to underline that 40 Croatian Railway experts, together with the social consensus of the union, have worked on this document for more than a year and a half, so I cannot agree with the fact that this programme does not have adequate economic and transport technological analyses. And let me finally say a few words. It may be difficult to stand in front of this House and say that we are adopting a program of 18 billion kunas that we are going to implement in the next five years, but we are also not aware of and sure which people we are going to do it with, with which company and how and how we realize it. Stages will be annual, will be carried out through annual construction plans, and will be implemented in accordance with the Law on Railways, the railway manager. It is the company HZ infrastructure, created by the division of Croatian railways from the beginning of 2007. What happened in the last 3 years in the railway sector, so what was inherited by the past government, somewhere there in 2004, was inherited by a railway company whose employment ratio, which is the difference between the operational,... is something that is the difference between operating income and expenditure and was somewhere in the 243% figure, which ultimately means that for each earned kuna with kuna and 43 we had to help that system to make it work normally. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have clearly set goals that we had to achieve, which is primarily a reduction in the cost and increase of the revenue side and that is under the target working ratio of 190 that we achieved last year and we kept it regardless of the division of railways, that was all for us the new circumstances. In the Croatian Railways system over the past four years, it has changed, there has been a huge fluctuation of people. The HH system was burdened, perhaps by too many technological surpluses, which was reduced by a net of 2 thousand 300, but with layoffs according to a social programme agreed with trade unions, so between 120 and 200 new employees were received each year. This significantly improved the age and professional structure of railway workers. These are the people we're going to be actively implementing this National Programme. And let me also finally say a few words about not only the development of railway infrastructure, but also the problem of potential liberalisation of the railway market, our accession to the European Union, which is our investment in the rolling stock and training of railway operators, the operator for future competitions. The amounts invested over the past four years are much higher if we look at the complete history of Croatian railways since their project in the 1990s. Today we are currently ending the problem of modernising 300 freight wagons and we are ahead of the arrangement of 60 new freight wagons. We expect the domestic industry, led by Djur Djakovic and Končar factory, will be there again. We have modernised 15 passenger cars and are launching a project to produce a domestic suburban train in which we are waiting for maximum participation and participation of the domestic mine-making industry. Modernisation of 10 electric and 10 maneuvering locomotives is under way that increasing requirements for the arrangement and extraction of cargo especially from the port of Rijeka and the port of Ploče. And in the end, we started the purchase, we finished the second tender, soon we will be in the third to buy 15 multi-system locomotives that should allow the company to draw trains already tomorrow more competition on the domestic and so on on the foreign market. I am once again taking the opportunity to thank all the representatives for today's participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3590	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll hold the vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3591	Proposal for a National Railway Infrastructure Programme for the period 2008 to 2012. The debate is over. The amendments were submitted by lawmakers and also submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The government of the Republic of Croatia submitted amendments after the deadline, two amendments. You received the amendments at the session. In accordance with Article 166. We'll vote in the Rules of Procedure if we're going to discuss it, vote on these amendments. Who's in favour of voting and discussing these two amendments to the government? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Restraint? Together with 128 votes, it was decided to debate and vote on the government's amendments, which the government submitted after the deadline. I would like the Secretary of State, Branimir Jerneic, to explain the government's amendments. Amendment one first.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3592	Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. The Government of the Republic of Croatia, as stated in the debate of the National Programme of Railway Infrastructure, submits amendments relating to the integration of railway lines in Istria with the rest of the railway network, and two amendments that correct and provide a consistent text of the National Railway Infrastructure Programme have been submitted in that sense, and this is the first amendment that corrects the text on page 20.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3593	I'm opening a debate on an amendment to a government. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the amendment of one government. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? With 125 votes unanimously adopted by one government amendment. It's an amendment to two governments. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on amendments to the two Governments. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Unanimity with 125 votes for the adoption and the second amendment to the government. Now we have a table of amendments that was delivered to you on the boxes. Amendments of MPs and club representatives. 11 amendments. Let's take it in a row. First amendment of Agent Ivan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3594	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3595	It becomes an integral part of the law. Other representatives of Nada Čavlović Smiljanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3596	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment concerns investment investments and reconstruction and railway modernisation. However, these tracks will be carried out and will mean regular or enhanced maintenance and will be seen through a national programme of 5 billion kuna in the railway maintenance section. In particular, I must point out that the railways mentioned here, Virovitica railway – Koprivnica has in the last medium term restored four railway, railway and road crossings while soon, in about 6 months, additional two will be placed on the market.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3597	Representative Nada Čavlović Smiljanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3598	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. I must say, I haven't heard your answer quite correctly, but in any case, my amendment has been addressed for the following reasons. So this most important railway for Virovitica-Podravska County is certainly the railway Dalj – Varazdin, i.e. the section of Virovitica – Koprivnica railway. I must say that this railroad is important not only for the transport of passengers, but it is of paramount importance and for the transport of cargo. It is of paramount importance for our “Viro” sugar factory. This line usually means raw materials and finished products from that factory. As far as I'm aware, the renovation and recovery of the Virovitica-Koprivnica stock were carried out 25 years ago, so I really can't believe that this amendment of mine, i.e. that the recovery and remont of this stock means the railways couldn't find their place in the proposal for a national railway infrastructure programme. I'll say one more thing! Just a little quiet, please! May I? I'll add something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3599	There's been an earthquake.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3600	Okay. Can we go on? I didn't challenge it, did I? Can I go on?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3601	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3602	I'd just like to add that the future a little quiet please colleagues! I'd just like to add that... The 2008 state budget does not mean two of the most important roads for our county. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This means the section of the road Varazdin – Ilok, Virovitica – Slatina. Neither does the fast road stock Vrbovec – Bjelovar – Virovitica. Unfortunately, I must conclude that our county will continue to be traffic-insulated. That's why I'm asking for a vote on my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3603	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. You see how bravely the MPs under the chandeliers stayed in their seats waiting for fate! Dear Representative Ivan Vukic, third amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3604	The amendment of Agent Ivan Vukic is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3605	It becomes an integral part of the law. The fourth also representative of Ivan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3606	The amendment of Agent Ivan Vukic is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3607	It becomes an integral part of the law. The fifth representative of the Zeljko Vincelj.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3608	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment refers to the Zagreb railway hub. Investment funds proposed during the five-year period are 485 and a half million kuna. The amendment proposes 800 million kuna, but this part of the planned work cannot be carried out during a five-year period, given that at the same time the most complex, complex rail transport operations take place at the Zagreb railway hub.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3609	Thank you. Representative Željko Vincelj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3610	Since I also have a feeling of the conclusions of the next two amendments, I suggest that we include in the explanation all three amendments 5, 6 and 7 and vote on everything of course. I would just like to say, it is usually about the need to secure all railway and road crossings in Croatia, and it is estimated that there are about a thousand of them that do not have safety devices but only traffic signs. The second requirement refers to the provision of additional funds for Zagreb nodes and the third one for Rijeka hubs because I believe that all these nice moves we will experience on the 10th pan-European corridor and corridor 5B that if we do not make these additional investments in hubs will not have an effect in accepting additional passenger and freight transport.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3611	We have to go one by one. Who's for amendment number five of MPs to Zeljko Vincelj. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number six, secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3612	Amendment number six is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3613	Okay. Thank you. You already said that. You've already given an explanation for... Who's for Amendment Six? He didn't get the necessary majority. Also Amendment 7, who's in favour of that amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Eight representatives of the Golden Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3614	The amendment of MP Zlatko Horvat is not accepted. In the light of the fact that the planned funds for the Varazdin Station amounting to 15 million kuna are harmonised with previous investments, which will ultimately lead to the fact that the existing Varazdin Station will be only a passenger station at its final stage.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3615	Representative Zlatko Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3616	Since I didn't understand anything, I accept the argument and I'm not asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3617	The amendment withdrawn for reasons of inaudibility. 9 MPs Ivan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3618	The amendment of Agent Ivan Vukic is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3619	Thank you. It's becoming an integral part. 10 representatives of Ivan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3620	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3621	It becomes an integral part of the law. 11 representatives of Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3622	This amendment is not accepted, the same content form of the amendment was proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia as given in the opening statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3623	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on the proposal for a national programme. What? ... They'll come, first the program and then the proposals go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I am voting on the proposal for a national programme. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I note that from 79 votes to 42 against the adoption of the National Railway Infrastructure Programme for the period 2008 to 2012 the text proposed by the applicant. We have several proposed conclusions submitted by the HDZ Representatives' Club, the SDP Representatives' Club and the HNS's Club of Representatives. The proposed conclusion of the HDZ Representatives Club was consummated in the proposal for a national programme. The first proposed conclusion of the SDP Representatives' Club, given that the national programme was adopted, and the proposal was directed by the SDP Representatives' Club to return to work, shortly before the adoption of the programme became groundless. The second proposed conclusion of the SDP Representatives Club. The applicant is obliged to make specific analyses as the basic assumptions of the modernisation of the railway infrastructure for the transport of pan-European transport corridors towards ports for the transport of dangerous goods, for combined transport, for urban and suburban transport in major cities. State Secretary, your position on this proposal, conclusion number 3 of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3625	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. The national programme of the CARD railway infrastructure was launched in 2006. I have 11 points listed here, I will not speak them by name, but all that is contained in the SDP's proposal for a conclusion were the basis for the development of a national railway infrastructure programme, especially according to the role of transport, especially the railways, etc. More than 40 Croatian Railway experts worked on the national railway infrastructure programme, and it had over 1500 pages in its booth at the end of 2006. Sublimat of 27 is a document that came to the Croatian Parliament after the government procedure and I do not think this proposed conclusion from the SDP club is acceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3626	Thank you. Who's number three of SDP's representatives to that conclusion? Number two, excuse me. He didn't get the necessary majority. Who's against it? Thank you. Restraint? For 42, against 80, therefore the conclusion was not adopted. And we have the conclusions of SDP Club 3, 4, 5 and 6 secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3627	Thank you, Mr. President. Conclusions of the SDP proposal under point 3, 4. 5, 6. The applicant also considers the documentation to be groundless because it was made, prepared before the preparatory phase, meaning while the national programme was still an act of a thousand 500 pages and before its sublimite, which was already about mid-2006.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3628	I am voting on the proposal for these conclusions on the 3rd, 4th, 5th and 6. SDP counseling club. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Against 80, 42 for, and the conclusions didn't get the green light. We still have the conclusions of the Club of HNS Representatives, which reads, the conclusion of the 1st task is to submit the proposal of the National Programme of Railway Infrastructure for the period 2008 to 2012 to the Croatian Assembly within 15 days of the analytical treatment of amounts and types of investments for part of the programme relating to the maintenance of railway infrastructure and the management of railway infrastructure and transport. I'd like to ask your public secretary's testimony.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3630	In accordance with Article 29 of which the National Programme of Railway Infrastructure, the annual investment plan and maintenance of railway infrastructures is adopted, the infrastructure manager shall develop. It is agreed by a resolute minister of transport. Since this document is adopted and adopted only after the adoption of the National Programme, we are unable to accept this conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3631	Who's in favor of this conclusion? ... What? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you are, on behalf of the club, the esteemed representative Željko Vincelj, on behalf of the club. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3632	In short, we find it at least incorrect to make a decision on the 18 billion-dollar programme in this House and to process only 12.6. 5.4 billion kunas we don't know where and how to... We think it's a perfectly logical and justified request for this. ... [[Because of the announcement, the speaker does not understand.]] Yeah, yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here's 15 days after the Minister's decision you can deliver, it'll be fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3633	I am voting on the proposal for this conclusion. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? For 43, against 80 and this conclusion number one. The HNS rep club didn't get the green light. The second conclusion of the Club of Representatives of the HNS is: it is up to the applicant to submit a list of railways planned to be closed to the Croatian Parliament within 30 days between 2008 and 2012. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3634	Your Honor, Mr. President. List... So the National Programme... [[Because of the announcement, the speaker does not understand.]] stripes made in the light of the proposal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It has been discussed with the local community during the debate on the National Roadway Crossing Programme. The program has not been completed and adopted for this reason we are unable to accept this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3635	On behalf of the HNS Club, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3636	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. I am giving a revised proposal to conclude that this is to be delivered to the Parliament 30 days after the establishment of the annual programme proposal. Is that acceptable to you? 30 days after you set out the proposal? ... What? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's not a change of law, it's simply a government's obligation to deliver that information to the Parliament. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] After. It's not a change of law, what's wrong with you? 30 days is not an acceptable time limit. I accept and understand. I propose a revised proposal 30 days after you determine the proposal. I need to be gentler. Here, I'm sorry, I'll be gentler now. 30 days after.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3637	We heard your modified proposal, we heard a modified proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3638	After the conclusion of the National Programme for Local Railway Management, the same is delivered to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for approval if the Government of the Republic of Croatia decides to forward an act to the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3639	Okay. We can't do this anymore, gentlemen. I am voting on this proposal for a conclusion by the HNS Representatives Club, number 2. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? 3 abstentions, 77 against and 43 for. So the conclusions didn't go away.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3640	We move to the 4th item of the agenda – the proposal for a plan for harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legal acquis of the European Union for 2008 – Appendix A to the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia for Accession of the European Union – was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 2008. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on European Integration. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration Mr Zeljko Kuprešak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3641	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. It is an exceptional honor for me to present today on behalf of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration and the Government of the Republic of Croatia the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia for Accession to the European Union for 2008, sixth in a row, and I believe, the sixth national programme in a row. It is our obligation, to provide you with full and timely information on all concrete activities arising from the advanced phase of the process of negotiation and accession of Croatia to the European Union. There's a lot of activity. As part of the specific criteria for membership and the chapters of the accession negotiations to the European Union, we will adopt a number of laws and sub-legislative acts, as well as a series of implementing measures to ensure the effective implementation of the commitments undertaken through strengthening administrative capacity. The national programme also provides for a range of strategic development documents for individual sectors such as agriculture, public procurement systems, competition etc. I would like to stress that the national programme was drawn up on the basis of the third report by the European Commission on the progress of the Republic of Croatia in the accession of the European Union to that document, under the European Union document entitled the Accession Partnership of February 2008. These documents welcome Croatia's visible progress in continuing the reform processes, but also encourages further efforts to complete the activities necessary to achieve a level of preparedness for full membership. The national programme aims to respond to these positive incentives and translate them into the specific tasks that are contained in this document. By mentioning the negotiation process, it is evident that the national programme is the backbone and the basis of all the accession activities of the Republic of Croatia, as we call it the blood count of our negotiating process. Let me look right at the negotiation process. During 2007, further progress has been made in all negotiating chapters, particularly with regard to meeting the criteria for opening and closing negotiations. The circumstances of the negotiations are indeed a challenge for Croatia because, in addition to the multilateral context of the enlargement process and the legality of the negotiations, we are faced with prominent bilateral issues whose resolution is greatly overshadowed by the overall result of negotiations so far. I would like because of the dynamics that awaits us this year and because of our foreign policy objectives for 2008 to recapture the process of negotiations so far. By the end of 2007, the Republic of Croatia had produced and submitted a negotiating position for 19 chapters of 20 received calls from the European Commission. The negotiations were opened in 16 and were provisionally closed in 2 chapters, and of 35 chapters negotiated with representatives of the European Union. The National Committee for the Monitoring of Negotiations adopted two other negotiating positions for Chapters XXIV – Justice, Freedom and Security, and XXXI – Foreign Security and Defence Policy, which Croatia will submit after receiving the call from the European Union chairman. But what is important to stress here that only figures of open and closed chapters do not fully reflect all the achievements and efforts that the Republic of Croatia is investing in the negotiation process. The process of negotiations in the past two years has shown us that we cannot fully rely on the experience of the fifth wave of enlargement and all the advice we have collected as a guideline. At times, the ratio of open and closed chapters gave a realistic picture of the state of negotiations. It's not like that today. And in the negotiation process, a whole series of stations appeared. I'd like to describe the negotiation process. If we look at the negotiations as a way between starting points and ending chapters, opening and closing chapters, there is a whole series of possibilities to take place that way. One of the crucial ones was the existence of a measure. The very word criterion in the fifth wave of enlargement did not exist. The process itself of verifying compliance with the criteria for opening negotiations in a particular chapter is still in line with both the European Commission and the Member States. Currently, Croatia faces 23 criteria for opening negotiations in chapter 11. The Republic of Croatia considers that it has met the 5 opening criteria currently in the European Commission for verification. All the criteria addressed are ongoing with intensive consultations to meet them with the European Commission. The rapid and effective fulfilment of the opening criteria is Croatia's top priority for the current 2008 year. What we want to achieve is to submit all the criteria for opening the negotiating chapter until the end of the Slovenian Presidency to the Union, which I think is a very ambitious programme. Fourteen negotiating chapters are open. The European Union has also set in its common positions the criteria necessary to meet in order to temporarily close the chapters. There are 39 of them at the moment, and we believe that we have fulfilled them in the final, and some of them were adopted by the Croatian Parliament. In order to ensure that the European Union meets its commitments and measures themselves, a mission mechanism is introduced in certain chapters. Their aim is to verify the implementation on the ground, or the way in which Croatia implements either the laws or action plans adopted by it in implementing the criteria set out. Such work missions are an additional element of the European Union's final assessment of the fulfilment of the criteria for opening or opening negotiations. The road to the closure of the chapter can therefore be moved to the criteria for the opening of chapters, the work mission for the assessment of implementation, official verification, the surrender of negotiating positions, the setting of criteria for closing chapters, the repeated work mission for the assessment of implementation and the final possibility of handing over negotiating positions and the closure of negotiations. Now let me present the structure of the document briefly. The national programme is based, as every year, on the criteria for European Union membership and the national accession programme for the European Union 2008, as well as last year's legislative review, to contain and summarise the table review of all the measures implemented for 2008, a significant part of which is a direct result of the negotiation process. When it comes to political criteria as part of those most important topics which, on the way to the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, are meeting the political conditions of economic adjustment and the capacity to assume the obligations of membership for the European Union, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is determined to make every effort necessary in 2008 to meet the remaining requirements necessary for an independent, impartial and effective judiciary within the shortest period of time. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has approached the revision of the Justice Reform Action Plan as well as the criteria for opening Chapter 23. The following period plans to amend a series of laws on criminal proceedings, the Law on litigation, the Law on Administrative Procedure, the Law on Courts, etc. with a view to simplifying and speeding up court proceedings. It will also begin with the implementation of the rationalisation of the network of courts, key measures to implement the full reform of the judiciary. Special attention will, of course, also be paid to the reform of the state administration where the adoption of the Law on State Employees' Payments in 2008 plans to complete the legal framework for civil servants and the adoption of the State Administration Reform Strategy. When it comes to statistics that will show very clearly what work awaits us this year in the process of harmonisation of legislation, 121 laws and 3 hundreds and 53 regulations are foreseen. It is visible that the harmonisation of legislation will continue intensively in this year, particularly in the context of the continuation of membership negotiations in the European Union. It seems quartally this way, that the first quarter provides for the adoption of twenty legislative proposals, in the second 36, in the third 22, and in the fourth 37 legislative proposals remaining. Our determination to implement reforms in a number of areas is visible from the figures mentioned above and the ministry that will determine in the current year and which will have the greatest burden of these tasks in the process of harmonisation will be the Ministry of Finance with 21 laws, economies with 17, health, health and social care with 17, and the Ministry of Justice with 15 envisaged laws. Finally, but no less importantly remains the issue of providing financial resources for the purpose of carrying out all the activities envisaged by this programme. Since the new budget for 2008 was discussed in Parliament yesterday and today, given that the provisional budget is currently in force, I note that Appendix B relating to the budget and funds of the parties will only be adopted after the adoption of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008. Ladies and gentlemen, by presenting the new National Programme for the current year, I am assessing how it confirms the readiness and ambitions of the Republic of Croatia to continue implementing concrete measures to achieve priorities in the process of approaching the European Union and is a very important step towards achieving the strategic objective of state administration and foreign policy towards full membership in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3642	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3643	Thank you. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club was indeed very pleased to expect this proposal for a plan ahead of us, the proposal for a plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legal acquis of the European Union for 2008. And of course he is very ambitious, but on the other hand he clearly paints the wish of both the Croatian Government and all of us in the Croatian Parliament that in this year, it is really important and important for Croatia's accession to the European Union to make it clear that I would say the final and most important business of harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union. The plan is ambitious indeed, as Mr. Kuprešk has already said, contains a large number of proposals and amendments to the law, the adoption of various sublegal acts, 353 if I am not mistaken underlaws and a series of implementing measures. So, a total of 121 laws, or I could hear 122, according to what you've done around the quarter, slightly changed compared to this plan that we've got. But in any case, it really reflects our desire to do most of the jobs in this year and that already in 2009 we are really ready for that key step, which is to complete negotiations, as the Government of the Republic of Croatia has already told us and our ambition is to complete the negotiations in the first half of 2009 and the Croatian Parliament indeed has a huge task with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so in implementing all these legal measures and acts. In this regard, we are really looking forward to the work ahead of us, and we expect all of us to cooperate as we do through the National Committee for the Monitoring of Negotiations. I believe that we will all work together in the Croatian Parliament. We all know that the legislation relating to the European Union is going according to an emergency procedure, and I expect this proposal to be truly respected by speed and law-making. We in the Croatian Democratic Community are ready to really work with a full pair and I believe everyone else on this plan and in this sense we will make our contribution in order to say conclude this year with all these acts that have been adopted and proposed. It seems important to me, given yesterday's session and the European Union's foreign-political committee, to highlight everything recognised so far to the Republic of Croatia in terms of the efforts it makes in order to be as high-quality as possible and to complete the negotiation process as quickly as possible. And in this sense, we are happy to say that yesterday the Foreign and Political Committee accepted a motion for a resolution that will certainly be adopted by the European Parliament and in which one of the points is spoken precisely by saying that it congratulates Croatia on all the steps it has achieved so far. And of course, the European Parliament will, in turn, provide us with maximum support in that approach. After all, it is also very important to have joint committee activities with the Republic of Croatia, so MPs from the Croatian Parliament and MPs in the European Parliament. The activities of the Joint Committee are also of paramount importance. After all, we have always had the support of all parliamentarians, regardless of their political commitment to the efforts that Croatia has made and is making to move towards the European Union. Here, quite certainly we expect, first of all, to have these legal proposals come exactly as you Mr. Secretary of State put it before the MPs, the job is huge but we think we have enough capacity to really master this very demanding plan. You also spoke to the open chapters, but you pointed out one important fact regarding the negotiation and the difference that exists between the way the members have already negotiated, the new members of the European Union and the way Croatia is negotiating. Thus, the introduction of a measure is a special procedure which will ultimately be put into one more difficult situation for Croatia in the negotiations themselves, as all those dealing with the enlargement process of the European Union in Europe have pointed out. So regardless of the fact that it is put into one difficult situation, we believe that this difficult situation has on the other hand and one advantage, which is that Croatia will certainly be more ready for all those tasks which, and all the obligations we take and which we will assume as a future member of the European Union, and in that sense we see this process which is really very demanding and through the system of standards, is best seen its demand. And as you yourself have said, opening and closing chapters do not really reflect the real state of negotiations and what Croatia is in today, and in this sense we really believe that the criteria will help us, help us to rightly overcome all the obstacles that exist or can exist on our path to the European Union. Here finally I want to point out once again our full support for this plan and we really expect... to take the job as soon as possible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And so far, there are two draft laws on the agenda, and the rest of them I hope to discuss very quickly in the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3644	Thank you very much. Vice-President Vesna Pusic on behalf of the HNS Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3645	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. As we have already negotiated several times and confirmed this is the most important task we have and this is the most important task this government and this Parliament's assembly has ahead of it because it represents a long-term guarantee of stability of political development towards the civil state and economic prosperity of Croatia. Every generation in Croatia has two options. One is that within his country he expresses his interests, needs and ambitions, and that's where he realizes them. In other words, to allow her to hear her voice. And the other is the possibility of leaving. In the past, many people have chosen this second possibility to go with their belly after bread or knowledge of opportunities. It chose to go out because they did not see the possibilities to realise both their interests and their potentials within the country. With this joint project we open up a chance for people in Croatia and generations of the present, those who come behind us to choose to stay in this country and in that country to realise both their creative potentials and their needs and their interests. That is why I believe that access to this project and especially this plan that is ahead of us must be extremely serious because to what extent we will be successful we will be able to ensure that people in this country choose to build here. This plan is very ambitious which is good, but it's also dangerous if we don't have instruments and we haven't prepared the instruments to realize it. Only for comparison with this plan plans to be brought into line in a year of 121 laws and 390 and some sublegal acts, but let's stick to the laws. 121 laws. I remind you that in the past four years, so four years of the term of office of the last government, we have brought together 160 laws in four years. So after four years, we've harmonised 160 laws. This is where we plan in a year 121 laws. I hope everyone understands the extent to which such a plan is ambitious. At this point, I think it is justified to say that our negotiations on the accession of the European Union are in some kind of stalemate or at least in some kind of beginning. Some of the reasons for this stasis are certainly beyond us. So beyond the possibility of our influence, it refers to objective circumstances. But some of the reasons are in us. Some of the reasons for this stalemate are available to us to resolve and remove them. Those who are primarily concerned are the reasons for the success in implementing reforms. To what extent were we successful in those reforms that really depended on us and can show results? On behalf of the HNS Club, I'd like to begin with a few general remarks on this plan. The reforms we need to take, their type, intensity and direction are best seen from the criteria or those famous "bench marks" as they are called in the negotiations, the criteria for opening and closing chapters. What are those standards? These criteria are actually criteria that we must meet and institutions that we must build, laws that we must adopt, practices that we must change to be able to say in one area we are at a minimum level that is needed for membership in the European Union but still much more important to the minimum level that is good enough, which is good enough for ourselves and for the citizens of this country. Because when we talk about these standards and when we talk about reforms, it is much more important to think whether what we are doing is good enough for the people of this country and only as a consequence then meets the criteria set before us by the European Union. We have standards in 14 chapters that are prerequisites for these chapters to be closed. So that's what we have to do, the reforms we have to implement to close those chapters, where we've already started negotiations on my count, but it's not easy to establish, and there's a secretary of state who mentioned 23 criteria. By my count in these chapters, we have 25 criteria that we must meet in order for these chapters to be closed, or 25 changes in reforms that we must implement to work well enough for ourselves in these segments of the state. And we have standards in 11 chapters that we cannot begin to negotiate at all before we implement these reforms. By my count in these 11 chapters, we have 18 standards. So, 18 reforms that we need to implement in order to even start negotiating 11 areas. Those reforms aren't like I think the secretary of state mentioned, they don't just mean this job that we do. So it's not just lawmaking. It also means the implementation of the law, which means those sublegal acts which are close to 400 to be adopted for that implementation. The first comment on behalf of the HNS Club on this plan that you have suggested is that whatever materials you have presented to us, there is no key review that would allow MPs to see how the laws we are asked to bring here, debate and vote for them, as they relate to meeting the criteria that we are given. In other words, in which the ratio of 121 laws to be passed here is 25 plus 18 reforms to be implemented so that they can close or open chapters that are just to be negotiated and debated. And on behalf of the HNS Club, I would like to ask the Ministry to try to give us an overview of this kind of image here in Parliament. We don't necessarily have to discuss such a subject once a year, exactly the other way around, to present to us a document that might show how our work serves the purpose that we would like to fulfill here, which is to implement those 25 plus 18 reforms. Another problem I'd like to point out here on behalf of the HNS Club refers to the methodology of work. In fact, you could conclude that 160 laws that we have harmonised in the last term plus 65 laws that we have harmonised in 2003 in the last year of the coalition government's mandate, so that this would mean that we in total have brought the 225 laws in this House in line. But it's not like that. If you look a little bit better, you'll see that we're going back to the sessions with the same laws two, three, four, five times. That we are harmonising the same laws over and over again. In some cases, it can't be avoided. In some cases, this is because during the negotiations there have been some additional remarks or requests and the law is re-entering the procedure. However, in most cases this is because there is no systematic approach to the reform of certain areas for which these laws are adopted. In other words, one ministry remembers that something needs to be changed in one law. He's coming for a synchronization. We sync three articles. After that, someone else or that same ministry remembers that something else needs to be coordinated. The same law appears again in the procedure and goes back into debate and we reconciling it. If you look at the records, you'll see that it happens up to five times the law. In this way, of course, the whole procedure is terribly delayed and shows that there is actually no system in harmonisation, and of course neither in the approach to these reforms. Third. In such a plan, it is necessary to determine which points are controversial. One part of the negotiations obviously goes smoothly at the level of experts and at the level of professional negotiation and reconciliation. However, because of these professional matters, it is obvious that our negotiations are not in a standstill or in this waiting situation as they are now, but there are these disputed points that agree to change. But there are certain disputed points that have led to the suspension of the negotiations and what both this Parliament and those who pass the laws and possibly in this process may be helped is an interest in the plan to remove or resolve what are the points in question. A few examples at this point, as I said over time, change. One such example is ZERP. A point that this Parliament does not know exactly what it is and how it will be resolved. Secondly, but let's say it's in the process of solving, so we'll get full information about it. Second. The decision taken in this Parliament, contrary to the decision made earlier, on not allowing the court to decide freely in the case of Glavas. It's a disputed point. This is not to be fooled by the issue in our negotiations, and given the functioning of the judiciary and, in general, whether or not to change the general attitude towards Croatia's membership in the European Union. How this came about and why the disputed point we know nothing about. The third disputed point is the inability of the state administration to exploit European funds. An absolutely controversial point in our negotiations. One of the three things you know that we keep repeating is the ability of the state administration, or administrative capacity as they technically call it. Therefore, the ability of the state administration to do its jobs, to function and to absorb what comes from the European Union. At the first step when it comes to the possibility of withdrawing funds from European funds ourselves, our state administration is unable to meet the criteria set for the development and processing of projects that would allow us to withdraw these funds. This problem is also mentioned in a report yesterday on the progress of negotiations adopted in the European Parliament directly as a problem, the inability to withdraw funds from European funds. This material that we have received is also an additional material that would show us how we will continue to withdraw funds from European funds, other words where those funds are in one place, and this was not read from the state budget yesterday, where those funds that we will follow the funds with, as you know, we must participate in the financing of projects in order to withdraw funds from European funds. We don't have a clear picture of it, I hope it's going to be in plan b) but in this we don't have a clear picture. In the report if you'll allow me just one more minute. The report on the progress of yesterday's negotiations, which was adopted by the European Parliament yesterday, and the 2007 report has mixed scores. But there's one very favourable point. The point says that the European Parliament hopes to discuss an agreement on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union by the June 2009 elections. We hope so, too, but we are asking here what we are doing to make that hope come true for both our and our European Parliament. At this time at 25 chapters of 33 plus those 2 that have special status, so in 25 chapters of 33, the ball is in our part of the field. In some things, we may not be able to do something alone because it applies to objective circumstances, but in 25 chapters we can.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3646	On behalf of the club in five minutes to finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3647	Thank you. I'm done here. So that part is what we do and what we expect from the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3648	Thank you very much. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3649	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. This material describes or lists 121 legislative proposals, and this should all be adopted in this year 2008. Now, it's only a 121 legislative proposal, but it's usually going to have to be multiplied by maybe 3, 4, 5 because it's going to be necessary to coordinate other legal acts I don't know about these legal proposals, so if one system wants to work, we're going to have a lot of work to do. The people say about that, there's what money makes so much music. So translated into our reality, how much attention we pay to these laws will be their quality. This means the hyperproduction of European laws in some way admit it to ourselves or not, leads to one further degradation of this House. There's no one to look after in this House who's going to read all this. No one's here, but we'll vote clearly on all this. And it's fortunate that no one in this country is responsible for anything, so neither will we who allow the Parliament to come down to that level. So by the end of this year if we divide it somehow by time, every other day we should adopt a legal proposal and in some way implement it in everyday life. We are changing these legal proposals literally one business, economic, financial, social, social and social reality in the Republic of Croatia. I don't know, for example. On the first page of this first quarter for the Ministry of Economy, Labour, Entrepreneurship needs to pass a new Law on Trade, I don't think you'll ban Sunday's work. The Law amending and supplementing the Pension Insurance Act, the Law on the Rights of Pension Insurance of Active Military Persons, Police Officers, Authorised Officials, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Export of Double Purpose, the Employment Intermediation Act, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Biocidal Products Act, and what I know is not everything, the Deposit, etc. I understand that Croatia is in a hurry to the European Union and I understand that this is one of the primary goals of us as political elites, although I do not think that the European Union is merely an interest in the political elite, I think that the European Union is good for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia who at this time or who will live from their work the next day. The truth is, in that European Union, it will need more work, but this is how things work, when today Croatia has over 33 billion euros of external debt or about 50 billion dollars, without the European Union, we simply cannot survive, and that should also be explained to Croatian citizens in some way. And that is why it is one of the greatest interests in this hour of the political elite to introduce Croatia into the European Union without someone working for us, not to return loans instead of us, but to finally start working because otherwise we are not being written badly. I said in this country that has $50 billion foreign debt, which has no idea of $12 billion in exports, on the other hand 23 billion in imports where inflation is 6%, where at prices we are probably at the top if not at the top of the European Union, at the salary where we are, we have to admit that at this point many citizens live beyond the possibilities far from what they deserve, and others live extremely hard. So Croatia simply has no alternative to the European Union. Here, in this plan, we are talking about 121 laws, not talking about relations to neighbours, something Mr. Matusic said. Don't talk about the ZERP that Mrs Pusic said or mentioned. Now this legislation, which the Assembly will adopt, and I am deeply convinced that none of us can read all of this, can help, but whether at this point someone will answer that Mesic questionnaire for ZERP or the European Union. We know that ZERP can't control at this point, we know that big disasters like that accident on that cursed Turkish ship that burned near Rovinj can't be solved by just one country, we know that eventually a tanker's disaster wouldn't just ruin a country where the sea or ZERP, or what do I know about territorial waters that tragedy would have happened, but would have ruined the economy of all the Adriatic states, and that's why it's really right to ask what's going on with this ZERP? So are we going to open a discussion about this? If so, when will we do it? No one argues that Croatia has the right to do the same, but whether we will question the European future of Croatian citizens, which is with Croatian credibility, as long as we sign one, the other we will do, the third we will promise, etc. Yesterday, Mr. Freedom spoke of compensation for Croatia to third parties. I'd like to know what that really means, who that applies to, but anyway, now that matter is hot, now we need to open up the debate. Today it is possible to reach some consensus, and tomorrow the question of whether certain divisions within the ruling coalition, within the opposition, will re-engage again, but I know the next day will be far harder to talk about than what would be tomorrow, or Wednesday or not know when, on Thursday. We're all going to raise our hand here for this plan, no dilemma, but we should in some way conduct a parallel discussion or open a debate about the role of this House. What is the role of Parliament, Parliament? If any of the MPs can. I see you're giving me the Rules of Procedure, the Constitution, it doesn't matter, but can any of us read those 121 laws? Can anyone know what he's raising his hand for? Should we change the role of this House, I don't know, in the way that someone is transporting, monitoring work together with the MPs? Everyone thinks I talked about it three days ago, so I'll do it again. Some just don't want to hear, understand. Everyone thinks the MP has no idea what infrastructure. We don't literally have anything. Every director in Buzet, in the Gračisje Municipality, who has a thousand 200 inhabitants is in a better position than our representatives. Imagine if some TV editor had to do his own contributions alone. There's a couple of people working with each headmaster. Anyone who works in a utility company has someone with him. We're responsible for the functioning of the state. No one stands behind us. I mean, there's no way a serious Parliament can function anyway. If they asked the Secretary of State if he had a phone paid by the Foreign Ministry, he'd say what a stupid question it is, how did you get up to the Parliament. Well, he didn't get on his feet no matter what he's got a mile, he came in with an official car. Never mind. But why am I saying that? Let's just open up the controversy and discuss the position of this House. It's the most legislative body in this country, we decide to operate the country as a whole, in a way, that's how citizens experience us, and we actually function as we function. But what is even more important, the weaker Parliament and the weaker the Croatian Parliament. I don't think it's a weak parliament, that they're weak representatives. What we have here in this Chamber is the best thing that could be chosen at this time among Croatian citizens, but the weaker Parliament, the stronger the executive power, and that means that parliamentarianism in Croatia will not live for a while or a long time. We have some surrogate in which every secretary of state is above the MPs, and it certainly cannot build or build on whom we cannot build the dignity of those who have the legitimacy of Croatian citizens. And in one word, as far as we keep to ourselves, the others will hold to us, and I guess that's clear to everyone. However, we are the ones who must hold this House, to the Croatian Parliament, and for us this House must be sacred. If it's for us, then it'll be for everyone else. For the end, I don't know. What else to say. I said it's not just about this 121 bill that we're going to have to adopt by the end of this year. We will probably have to discuss three, four times the number of laws so that all the others can comply with the ones we adopt or bring, and I think that without one serious transport with those who will raise their hands on it, it's simply impossible. I know we operate by principle no matter what, which 121 laws. If you give us 300 laws, 400, 500, but which gentlemen the quality of these laws will eventually be. It's the essence we should talk about, and as we're set up, we can't expect God to know what.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3650	That's it? Thank you very much. The SDP Club, the Honorable Representative, Vice President of the Neven Mimica House. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3651	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here Croatia enters the decisive stage and its adaptations to European standards, European values, but it also enters the decisive stage of its negotiations on the accession of the European Union and it is good that it enters this decisive phase in an organised, systematic way, to enter into this major document of the national programme for accession to the European Union, i.e. in a legislative sense entered into the plan, i.e. the legislative harmonisation plan with the acquis of the European Union. 120 laws are proposed to adopt this year's Parliament in order to continue the process of harmonisation with European legislation and the first question or the first picture that we all here in this House or in the public are creating about only that fact of 120 European laws that have to be adopted, says that it is a large number. Looks like some of them might be too big. And that's why two questions are immediately asked, can the Parliament really do that? Can the Parliament adopt 120 European laws in just one year? And the second question is, can the ministries produce, produce 120 quality legislative proposals that will come to the House, and can they, at the end of the line of the ministry, after Parliament adopts these new, European laws, can the ministries ensure that these laws are implemented effectively, which is probably the most important objective? In response to this first question, can the Parliament adopt 120 European laws in a year? In the SDP, we're optimistic. And our answer is that Parliament can and should do this part of the job, that it must take its role seriously and that Parliament must not be the narrow throat of our approach to the European Union. Legislative work is a parliamentary job and I am sure that the Parliament can accept 120 European laws this year. The second question is, can the ministries do it? Can I make the laws? Can I ensure that these laws are implemented? The answer to that question is a little more conditional, i.e. for a positive answer to that question, even a little more things need to be combined, a little more conditions or preconditions to be met. In order for the ministries to do so, there must be a very strong reform political will primarily in the government, in the ruling coalition, and there must be a very strong coordination pressure to say so to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration as a coordinating body that helps, monitors and directs the work of all other ministries on everything they do on European adaptations. Therefore, pressure on the ministries must be constant, it must be systematic, it must be clearly focused. I've worked long enough in the state administration to say that no matter what anyone thinks about our state administration, and usually we think pretty badly and we give it pretty bad grades and attributes, but regardless, I am convinced and from my own experience that the ministry will do as much as they are asked with a strong political, strong political demand and strong political pressure. The more the ministry pushes, the more it bounces. Here I think I can bounce high enough to do my job under those conditions that there is a political reform will and there is co-ordination will, strength and knowledge in the coordination ministry. It is certain that when we talk about the number of laws that we still come here in a situation that simply, we pay for the debt of slow reforms in the previous period. In four previous years, 160 laws. In those first years of work of the previous Government in 2004/2005. barely 20, barely 30 laws a year. We talked about it. They argued about whether it was small, whether it was much, whether it could be more, why couldn't it be more. But now we're in a situation where we have to, but we really need 120 laws in one year. And that's not the end of the deal. In order to join the European Union, we must fully comply with our legislation with the acquis of the European Union before membership, except in the part where we agree on some extended periods or where we agree on specific exceptions in negotiations. But basically we have to enter the European Union with over 450 harmonised laws because that is about the average of the countries that have entered the European Union before us. If we're at about 220 today or somewhere more laws are in line, then at least 200 and something else, 220 laws are ahead of us. If we look at that average in the experience of other countries and it means 120 this year and at least 100th in the following year. That's what's waiting for us. Thus, a different reform effort could be deployed, the effort to bring legislation into line. We could have done more in previous years to be in a more comfortable situation right now. The more comfortable the fewer laws would still ensure the greater quality of this harmonisation of legislation. However, even though it is a large number of laws, I think the Parliament must do its part not only to count how many laws it has passed, but to really look after the quality of harmonisation. That is why we have a Committee on European Integration, and that is why we have the National Committee for the Monitoring of Negotiations. And that's why we have each of the 25, there'll be more likely sectoral committees to say so. The quality of harmonisation of legislation is extremely important, and Parliament has a role to play not only in the adoption of laws but also in the adoption of quality laws. The Committees on European Integration, the National Committee must be careful, must be one to ensure that the impact of a single legislative proposal is assessed, in order to see what a single law adopts a good, bad, difficult, easy for a sector, for an area it regulates. And to say whether we can really fully apply what the European legislation requires, or whether we need some transitional period, some delay for that application. This is why bilateral communication between the Parliament and the Government is important, i.e. between those criteria, those criteria for the opening of certain chapters and the plan for harmonisation of legislation. This is a living document. The legislative alignment plan is a living document. You can't say we've adopted it now, 120 laws. We know what we're going to bring and it's a done deal. This document may need to be changed over the year not just once. Each time a new chapter is opened when criteria, benchmarks are agreed to open or to close chapters, it will also have to be reflected in this legislative section in addition to this document. On the other hand, the whole system works and vice versa. When the Committee on European Integration or any sectoral committee or national committee finds it necessary to do something for extended application because the effects of this legislation are difficult for a branch, for a company, for a social group, then this must also be reflected in our negotiating positions. Then for this chapter, we should seek a transitional period in the negotiating positions. Therefore, in this bilateral communication this document should be served as a real guide, as a basic document that must be constantly complemented and which must constantly reflect the true state of affairs in our adaptations to the European Union. The financial impact of all these adjustments here was not elaborated more, nor could it. The secretary of state said it was a document that was brought here in February, a situation in which it was practically adopted before this year's budget was delayed. It is therefore necessary to work further on the financial effects. The obligation exists, the Parliament concluded that, in practice, every legislative proposal and every proposal for European laws must also assess the regulatory effects, meaning those effects on the area it adopts and also the financial and budgetary effects. Somewhere on average, as we look back on the old national programmes, it was predicted that the financial impact of the adjustment of legislation in one year amounts to a billion and a half kuna up to 2 billion kuna. Therefore, it is large funds, major financial effects and their previous assessment that this House, this Parliament, should know. This Parliament has also reached several conclusions since 2001, and later on in the course of the negotiation process, which it asked the Government to report first on the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement every six months, then the conclusions on the implementation, or the course of the negotiation process, and the conclusions on the development of events in relations with the European Union during each of the presidial sessions. They were all engaged in a six - month report to the Parliament. Almost didn't say more than three, four times in four years I'd get reports like that. Therefore, what we can conclude is what we can look for and have specific conclusions that the Assembly is also reporting on the implementation of the legislative harmonisation plan. Therefore, I just think that I need to repeat all these demands and simply establish this relationship with the government that will be correct, which will be the relationship of dialogue. In addition, there is also a formal resolution I think or a decision by the 2005 Parliament, two, one which establishes a political consensus on European issues, and another very interesting, one very original resolution that is very little where there is in parliaments on the dialogue between the executive and legislative authorities on European issues. Therefore, we are going to establish if we do not think that it has been fully established or that we are going to strengthen this dialogue. The message to the government is to include the Parliament to the end in the negotiation process, in the reform process. Parliament is useful, parliament can help, Parliament wants and wants to help. Therefore, working together on a common priority is extremely important. I am going towards the end, and it would probably be good to assess in that end what has been done so far in the negotiation process, or what has been done practically in the implementation of the national coordination programme. However, I will not talk more about it today. The SDP Club has requested and the Assembly has accepted the inclusion in the agenda of a special item on the situation in negotiations with the European Union, on the situation with a protected eco-fishing belt. I can only hope that this debate will come on the agenda as soon as possible. It would probably be good to have it on the agenda before the appointment of the ZERP meeting in two weeks, and again and in that case, the Assembly can help. ZERP is just one thing that at the moment leads to a halt in the negotiation process, but ZERP is not the only thing. There's a lot more in the reforms of work, there's a Parliament that needs and can help. As far as ZERP is concerned, immediately I say it will support everything that the Government manages to do in dialogue with European partners if it succeeds in making us both ZERP and the European Union, of course we will be the first to clap and congratulate the Government on that. If, after serious discussion and arguments and dialogues and assurances, the Government returns here to this Croatian Parliament and says we cannot have the ZERP and the European Union. The SDP will know how to choose in this case, the SDP chooses Europe and continue the path towards the European Union, but then we will discuss why we are brought into such a situation that we have to choose between Europe and ZERP at all. However, for the end and for the real end, because the red light is already burning but not blinking, the SDP Club will also support the National Programme of Accession of Croatia to the European Union and what is formally required of the Parliament will accept the acquis plan with the European Union because we believe that this is an extremely important joint document for our common European future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3652	Thank you. Individual debates. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3653	Thank you. Dear Mr. Vice President, the honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. As shown in this proposal of the plan, therefore, we must adopt, or foresee, 121 laws in a year. From that, here is the first quarter, which stands out on March 31st, 27th, with that label. As we see in our order and plan for Parliament's work, even though we know that one day we will certainly spend, given the amendments that have been made, precisely in the course of the amendment, this means that by the end of the 3rd month, we have nine more working days and yet not one single law of this planned 27 for the period of the first quarter has arrived. Or there's one, two. But this second one you're talking about tobacco is just being predicted for the second quarter. He's too early, and he's too early, so I'm here talking to these 27 ones. The other one is this one from the second quarter. And it's two, though it's three, that five is not enough and small and weak. What is the quality of the law and how it is possible in nine days and this is assuming that they have already arrived at the Croatian Parliament or are again planned from 11, 12 on the night where the public will not be informed in time, but it is important that these laws be discussed, not only that they are only quality and more quality. This is, of course, meant, but that the public as an addressee to whom it is addressed, that these laws or proposals of the law be made known to the public. So I'm expressing serious concern that we're going to follow the pace because he's already broken. If we see what laws will be passed then it says that we are not on the trail above all of those plotted and promised reform procedures. At least not those who have been announced with the highest state instance or its representatives. If we look at the legislative measures proposed by the Ministry of Justice, then it is announced that this year we will amend the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Law on Courts, which means that there is nothing of criminal legal reform and that the investigation is left out of the formal criminal proceedings. Because if that were the case and it really was going to be done then we would see here changes to the Law on State's Attorney's Office because they necessarily imply such changes and the Law on the Police. It's not there. In 2002, a working group headed by Professor Krapec was formed to prepare a proposal for amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act. We listened to the last term, the newspaper articles were because, of course, it is very interesting for both the media and our public and the right to do so, because whenever it comes to changing the criminal legislation of a country, so our country is also drawing great attention to the public. However... It won't be anything this year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're wondering why? However, given that some of the laws bearing the label P.Z.E., which have been passed a few years ago but which have been changed at the expense of European standards, we will have to change them again and necessarily. I note that it will be necessary to do so with the Law on Public Registration and with the Law on Penalty of Prisons. As is known originally when the law was adopted, it was incorporated into all the principles and standards of European prison rules, minimum rules for the treatment of delinquents and fully in line with the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the European Convention on the Prevention of Tortrum and Inhuman or Demeaning Treatment or Penalty. But all these measures also imply the composition of leading people in prisons and penitentiary facilities, or total in the penalty system. Since he's upset, we're against it. We will again be obliged to amend, therefore, the Law on the execution of prison sentences but also the Law on Public Literature because the rules of the profession have just been put into question what is at stake then and what is a fundamental issue of impartiality or depoliticalism to the greatest extent possible in these systems. Of course there are no proposals to amend such laws. So here are my basic remarks that he's late with this plan right now or that it's evident that we're not going to last such a pace except for that old good habit of being somewhere at night but the question is, and those hours of night have their own duration. So it is questionable at all that it is nonstop, that it is possible to follow this pace, and once again the question is why there is no amendment to the law on criminal proceedings in a way that would... An investigation? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I say it necessarily. This is where the Law on Criminal Procedure is changed, I saw it, but not necessarily the Law on the State's Attorney's Office and the Law on the Police, I repeat, which then implies that there will be no investigation. This is probably how it's changing again in that direction that is insufficient and in any case not to trace what we've drawn out and what there's a consensus for all of us here and the expectations of the public are in it. And I'm going to say something else that stops with criminal-legal reform because we don't see it changing here, that criminal law is going to change, and that we're going to finally get to the modern economic incrimination that is so necessary in our criminal legislation. And the sooner and the more this approach to the European Union will be, the more it will be, the more it will be, the more it will be done and the more it will be done, the more it will be done, because it opens up opportunities and some of our companies and individuals and states as a whole, and we, as such, must protect ourselves not only from the attacks of our own, from citizens who would hurt such norms and legal persons, but also from foreign legal persons who will then, to a greater extent, also do business here. Therefore, for the sake of my own protection, I am telling us and I repeat the necessary incriminations that exist in the European Union, that they exist in all Western European countries. Our socialists are telling us every time, every year the State's Attorney's Office in its annual report draws attention to the fact that the eyes of the public are focused and particularly sensitive about this type of crime but that even the ongoing investigations do not give adequate judicial epilogue the most thanks and inadequate legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3654	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected representative Marija Pejcinović-Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3655	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I think that colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović corrected herself. That there's no need to fix it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3656	It's good. That's what night has its power, right? ... Dear representative Dubravka Shuica. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3657	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. So here we all know that 2008 is a key year for accession, and we have this document in front of us that we clearly read about, what government intentions are and what government policy is in the next year, in which we already are. We have 121 laws, as this national programme says, and as I read from this national programme, the intention is to bring all these laws and changes to half of 2009 until the term of office of this European Parliament. This is the 6th edition of the national legislative harmonisation programme. In any case, the strategic document from which we see all the criteria and obligations of the Republic of Croatia that we have taken over, which we have been given. We heard just before from the State Secretary's exposure that in that fifth wave of accession no standards were foreseen, which means that we have a lot of difficult criteria and difficult circumstances, but we need them anyway, we need to meet. As far as I understand the synergy of the negotiating process and this national programme is actually needed, so just a few words about the negotiation process. During the first 6 months of last year, 7 chapters were opened during the German Presidency, 4 chapters were opened for the next half of the year during the Portuguese session and we also received criteria for opening three chapters and closing criteria in just one. So, by the end of 2007. The Republic of Croatia made twenty-one, and handed over 19 negotiating positions. Negotiations are open at 16, and temporarily closed in two chapters, and 35 are still being negotiated. The determination of priorities in this national programme is based on several sources, not just those of the two that you spoke of here. And how much I understood in the Government of the Republic of Croatia's 2008-2011 programme Then on the results of the negotiations so far, then on that initial Stabilisation and Association Agreement, then on the November 2007 accession partnership, cooperation with the European Union delegation in the Republic of Croatia and on the report on the progress of the European Union. This progress report is very interesting and includes progress and expects both political and economic criteria to be met. Political criteria based on the Copenhagen Council conclusions and economics that continue on Copenhagen Masterricht and later on on the Lisbon Strategy. And yet all these activities when we look at this programme are divided into legislative and implementing. There's been a lot of talk about legislative measures. We said 121 laws in this year and 353 sublaws, but implementing measures may be even more important than legislative ones, regardless of what the word here was that this was a big task for this House. But in my opinion, it's a great task first for executive power, and I believe the Parliament will do its part, so if it takes overtime. But the fact is that there's a big deal in the executive board and we expect them to come here to this House. The truth is that when you compare this document already today is a slightly different document that we have received, that is, this proposal from what the secretary of state said. So we already know that it's going to be in the first quarter of 20 laws, and here something more, it's listed 27 here, so. But yesterday we talked about it on the board and we all agreed that this national programme is actually a living body and that it must experience changes, experience revision and that over the year it needs to be discussed several times. We all agree with that, so we shouldn't stick to maybe blindly with these numbers. But in any case, the fact that we've passed 160 laws so far, that we adopted 74 last year. It warns of the great responsibility of this House and of all others and I told the ministries or executive authorities. Something that means we got this supplement a). We expect an add-on (b) which will tell us about our financial commitments, but the addition (b) can only be made after the budget is adopted since we will adopt the budget next week. So only after that is Appendix b). What you might still want to say here to this Assembly, and you may not know when I was talking about what the progress report is based on. It is based, of course, on all these reports of these bodies as well as data from the government, the Parliament, NGOs. But no one mentions local administration or self-government. For the Committee of the Regions of the European Parliament, a working group for Croatia is active and there are two mayors and two mayors, two of them from the opposition, two from the ruling and we have four annual meetings to report on the degree of decentralisation, on cross-border co-operation, on fiscal reform, which is probably one of the sources from which the data for this progress report is drawn. That's what I wanted to say. The Parliament may not be familiar, but you from the ministry know because you nominated us there. Until recently, Mayor Byce was with us. It's a vacant place so you need to think about who the new mayor is. In any case, all these coordinations will contribute significantly to the achievement of the national programme, and I believe that we will also meet the recommendations of the Commission's progress report, and I believe that it is the goal, not to believe, but I also know that yesterday we voted this national programme on the Committee on European Integration. So everyone in the state of Croatia is interested in this ambitious government plan and I believe that in the synergy between the Parliament and the executive power we will be able to realise it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3658	Thank you. Dear representative Marija Pejcinović Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3659	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. So here I would start my debate by starting from the fact that joining the European Union is one of the first I would dare say, the first foreign-political goal this government has, which this government has had before the government and in that context I think it's interesting to say and that it actually reflects a part of this debate that we have heard today about a big job waiting for us in the Parliament. But I'll look back later on, I mean not just us in the Parliament and not just colleagues in the government. It is a business whose main work is done in Croatia. Often when we talked about negotiators from other countries, they always say they are the main negotiations in Croatia. I think that the debate that we've heard today actually reflects the same opinion among colleagues and colleagues here in the Parliament. But I would also go back to the fact that we have a consensus on this issue in Croatia and in this context I think that the question of how much Parliament has on the table in this year's work should not be a question if the goal of this job is to end up so that accession negotiations are as well as other matters that are important in the process of preparation for accession have decided so far. This is safe, and this shows this national programme a key year for accession, it is also crucial in the number of these laws, it is also crucial in the number of sublegal acts, it is crucial in the number of implementing measures that have been talked about today, but it is also crucial in the context of what Croatia will do in this year because it will determine and I think we talk a lot about it if we do this job in this year, and of course it does not depend on Croatia alone. This also depends on institutions, councils, commissions, Member States. Then Croatia has a chance to get much more than if it happens in years that will follow later. In fact, it is often said if this job is not completed next year, then for a number of reasons we can expect that just accession, no matter how we prepare for it, can happen later. I would just say in this context that we must all be in the interest of working on it, because Croatia will, among other things, if we fail to catch and win, lose and make significant funds in this. There has never been a conversation, but in this context I would support that either on committees or here in the Assembly we can discuss the funds, but not just those funds that we have results for, which are very high in efficiency, if we talk about CARDS in three years above 96%, by one year 94%, the PHARE that can only be measured by 2005. Eighty-six percent. So extremely high figures and I would like to say in this context, given that there has been a speech here that we have lost something and that has become an obstacle to negotiations, not yet, not all happiness, but there is one warning, there is one deadline and action plan that has to be implemented. I am convinced that the resolution ministries and the government responsible for this will do so within the time limit it is given. So I have to repeat, the money's not lost, and I'd like to say it for the public, because it's often wrong to talk about it. I appreciate the fact that it's good to warn that it can't happen. I'm joining it as someone who's been working on it, but so far it hasn't happened, and I'm convinced that the government is going to work on it so it doesn't happen. As to whether such data should be included in the national programme, it is one rather standardised document again of course does not exclude the fact that Croatia can do so, but I would return to one of the commitments that the Government has, which is that it six-pointly reports this High House on the Funds. I think the government did it, I don't know exactly what time it was last term for the Parliament, I think I just need to look at that deadline, and I need to ask the government to look at what was going on in the period after we were last, that is, having a chance to hear about pre-accession funds. Next to the structure that's in place, this is about funds that monitor what's going on this year. With regard to harmonisation of legislation, of course, you can say about it, and that is the experience of others, so there is an aproximative number of how much of the law should be harmonised in total. However, this depends, of course, on how you can therefore comply with one directive or one failure that the acquis requires by one law, and you can comply with more. So dealing with numbers can often be misleading. But I agree with my colleague Mimic, that number will be around 400, but if this is summed up all we've done so far, and in some account that I have, it's 225 so far, if we have 121 in this year we're close, I think it's some number of 400 laws, and I believe that next year the Parliament will still have to deal with this, but I believe deeply that we're going to end the negotiations next year and it's going to be about that. The legal gain is changing, it is part of the answer, and those questions that my colleague Pusic had, why some regulations are being brought to the High House several times. So the legal gain changes, when it is changed, what has been changed before should be changed if it is, of course, necessary. And what I must stress is the fact that we are actually only in screening, only in this deep recording of the legislation did we get the right opportunity and opportunity to really see how much and what we were harmonizing with the regulations of the European Union. So I would support my colleague Mimica in that we may not be so hard on our colleagues from the state administration who work, believe me, with the work of the state administration, or before I entered the state administration, I also didn't have a God-knowing opinion, but working for seven years, I think I've changed my mind very much. There's a lot of people who do a lot of work, and I think the messages that come from here in the context that these people don't, that they're like this or they're not capable, and so, they're not good if they come from a place this high. This is what all those working on negotiations show, and they work on the same salary and the same job that they usually do in their portfolios very often, do not forget that no one has paid them any extra kuna if they are working to comply with the legislation, and that we probably would not have to do so in another period. Now just maybe a little bit more about it, we've talked a lot about what we're going to do. But I think it's important to say here because it's often ignored, and now we know what the executive authority in this document is doing because it's very, very, very nearly said on a thousand pages. We know what we're going to do here, much less pages, but no less work when you take a safe amount, so the pages we're going to have to look at, to discuss here in this House of Commons. But what should all others do? I think it's part of our job that in our election units, but also wider for the public as a whole, we talk about how much work it is for everyone. Practically, it is such a business of adjustment in which the business and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, all associations dealing with entrepreneurship and competitiveness issues, is also engaged in the third pillar. So all the judicial authorities do that. If you take that part that talks about the political criteria that are often targeted by the public here, etc. This is the whole judicial system dealing with this, from the Supreme Court to every single judicial employee involved in this process. Part of our job is that I also agree with my colleague Dubravka Shuic, that we must work to prepare, that is, to warn local and regional self-government to prepare for what is coming in every respect. One segment is certainly structural funds, but it's not just structural funds, it's also the fact that one day we're usually going to say it, we're all getting ready for the wedding, it's going to happen when we enter the European Union, but after the wedding we're supposed to live in marriage. Now I think that we must start acting in a way that we are thinking about this very time that is ahead of us, so in this segment we can actually say without exaggerating that we all have a big job in the Republic of Croatia. This year and this year maybe more than we've had before. Here I would stop this perhaps more emotional speech than I thought I would, but it's emotional because I've been in that process for a long time, because I know how many people are working on it and I know how much more to do. And not only those who know what to do but also a lot of those who are not aware of it yet, which is what this is about. So it is that we Croatia must prepare to benefit from membership in the European Union. In that context, I would like to say that I am going to support this national programme, and that I believe that all colleagues and colleagues who are pro-European-oriented, and I think that we have a consensus on this, will do the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3660	Thank you. At 17.59, the time for the 10-minute hearing was up. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. He's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3661	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear secretary with associate, colleague and fellow MPs. It will be really hard for me to speak now after such a beautiful inspired speech by my colleague Maria, but with my brief debate I will try really to commend and support this proposal to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legal gains of the European Union for 2008. In November 2007, the European Commission published a report on the progress of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union's 2007 accession process, which concludes the progress of the Republic of Croatia in the areas of meeting political and economic criteria. It is also estimated that the Republic of Croatia is able to assume all obligations for membership in the European Union. I truly believe that this assembly of Parliament will also be effective and that there will be no brakes in harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union, regardless of what 121 laws are before us and what we have 353 sublaws as we have heard, and why I am convinced. It is precisely because I think there is still in some way a high degree of political consensus towards achieving the common objective of full membership in the European Union and therefore I am surprised at the debate of my colleague, Ingrid Anticevic, if my colleague Mimica talked about this law and about full optimism and the will to do this work together. Surely, before us is judicial reform, the fight against corruption and the protection of minorities, the reform of the state administration, and a special effort should be made to implement and implement harmonised legislation. Appendix A to the National Programme consists of legislative measures and implementing measures for 2008 containing strategies, plans, programmes, the establishment of new institutions and strengthening administrative capacity. A great effort should be made to implement and implement legislation to be passed, and in the context of legislative activity, I remembered last year the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Social Care, which sets out the right for parents with serious interference in developing parent status, extends the right to care outside their own family to assist the child with physical or mental impairment in programmes of regular, pre-school and school institutions. A circle outside of institutional activity has also been expanded, and one measure this year is to expand the social services network for children, older people and persons with disabilities. This also encourages implementation of the deinstitutionalisation plan and the plan is divided further into four phases. What I'm saying is that the team is a busy job and that it also provides for the establishment of methodological centres and services to support the provision of housing, etc. Of course, implementation measures include strategies and plans and programmes, the establishment of institutions and other bodies, and we need educated people for all. Sometimes it seems to me that more administrations are needed in the implementation, and if you read this document then there is often an expansion of the administration, but what is very important is that the reshuffle of this administration is needed, that education and improvement are needed. The program is indeed widespread, over a thousand pages and I have given a little more attention to social security and social and health problems. As regards the social security system, the Republic of Croatia is currently coordinating a social security system with a total of 24 countries of which are 6 of the European Union countries, it can also be expected to increase the number of cases of social security benefits granted in relation to countries with which the Republic of Croatia has not so far had contractual relations on social security. In addition to the 16 so far, it will expand to another 11 Member States and to two other countries of the European Economic Area, as well as to increase the free movement in the European Union. As regards health care, in the healthcare sector with the aim of harmonising with the legal acquis of the European Union, a series of amendments to the laws we have already heard here, is the Law on Medicine, Dental Activity, the Law on Medical, Biochemical Pharmacy, as well as in the sisterhood, the Law on humanitarian aid, the Food and Veterinary Law. It's an unusually important law. And what makes me particularly happy, which is the preparation of the Primal Law that will regulate the profession of recipients that has not been made by us so far. During 2008, the adoption of the Medical Products Act is also planned, so further harmonisation in the field of medical products and appliances. Finally, I express my special satisfaction with the adoption of the Tobacco Control Act, following the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the World Health Organization Framework Convention on Tobacco Control with the Final Proposal for a Law which is now in the procedure in the Croatian Parliament and following certain legal regulations. I truly believe that we will put all our strengths forward, that one synergism will be manifested both by the government, the ministries and this Parliament on everyone to make the best contribution to the realisation of this demanding work that is ahead of us. But I mean, I'm not a pessimist, I'm an optimist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3662	Thank you. Honorable representative Damir Sesvečan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3663	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So, before us is the proposal for a plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legal acquis of the European Union for 2008 with the addition of the A National Programme submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Croatian Parliament for adoption. We also have before us the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia for Accession to the European Union 2008 brought to the meeting of the Government on 7 February this year. In addition to describing the situation in a particular area, the national programme defines the specific short- and medium-term activities it produces from the accession process to the European Union. The priorities set out in the National Programme as set out in the Programme itself and are based on the Government of Croatia programme from 2008 to 2011 on the results of the previous course of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, the November 2007 Accession Partnership, the evaluation of Croatia's progress in the European Commission's accession report, and on cooperation with the European Union delegation in the Republic of Croatia. The structure of the national programme is determined by political and economic criteria and by the capacity to assume the obligations arising from membership in the European Union. It is through these criteria and the European Commission is assessing progress in the accession negotiations process that it published in its third report on Croatia's progress in the European Union's 2007 accession process. So, the European Commission estimates that in 2007, the Republic of Croatia continued to advance in all areas. Political criteria remain for further judicial reform, the fight against corruption, state administration reform, protection of minorities and refugee returns. In meeting the economic criteria, Croatia has for the first time been assessed as the country in which the market economy operates. It also requires maintaining macroeconomic stability, resolving state intervention issues and restructuring large state-owned enterprises. In the capacity to take over other commitments, certain improvements have been highlighted with the need to invest additional efforts in harmonising legislation with the acquis of the European Union, as well as the application and implementation of the laws adopted. In the national programme, it is precisely in the chapter of the capacity to take on commitments from the membership of the European Union that the legislative harmonisation plan and Appendix A that we are discussing today and which Croatian Parliament should adopt. It consists of legislative and implementing measures related to the accession process in a particular chapter. Legislative measures shall cover all legislative and sublegal regulations which are provided for in the 2008 adoption, which shall be brought into line with the acquis of the European Union. The implementing measures shall cover all activities outside the legislative framework related to the adaptation process to the European Union system. It refers to the creation, adoption and implementation of strategies, plans and programmes, the establishment of new institutions, strengthening administrative capacity and capacity. As has already been said this year, the adoption of 121 laws and 353 sublaws is a very demanding goal. For the purposes of the comparison, 55 laws and 228 regulations and around 170 implementing measures were planned last 2007. In the first quarter of this year, it is envisaged to pass 27 laws, in the second 53, in the third 18th and fourth quarter of the 23rd laws. I think we all understand how important it is to respect established legislative obligations. I hope we can fill out the first quarter of these first quarter, or at least fill out most of them. Although there's little time left. Finally, I would like to emphasise that since the very speed of harmonisation of legislation and accession negotiations, the more important quality and protection of national interests of which the Government of the Republic of Croatia is taking into account. In the end, of course I will support the adoption of this plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3664	Thank you. Dear representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3665	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The importance of the document delivered to the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia was discussed by my colleague. What I would like to point out in my debate is that the proposal for a plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legal acquis of the European Union for 2008 adds to the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia for Accession to the European Union in 2008 to confirm the seriousness and responsibilities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which in the first 30 days of its work brought this document to the Croatian Parliament. I would like to remind you that the government was established on 12 January, and the proposal for a legislative harmonisation plan with proposal 121 of the laws to be harmonised this year adopted on 7 February. So this House is at its third and, in fact, the first working session immediately after the debate on the most important annual document for Croatia in this year, which I appreciate, the budget, whose proposal we discussed yesterday, should also be adopted by this equally important document on the path that Croatia itself has chosen, along the way to joining Croatia in full membership in the European Union. A further harmonisation plan of 121 laws has been reviewed and scheduled during this year, of which 80 in the first half and 41 in the second half. And each of them means all of them together and 121 steps to be closer to the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union. I welcome the fact that, on the agenda of this session, the discussions on the first two laws of this document are followed; the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Electronic Media from the Department of Culture and the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the World Health Organization Framework Convention on Tobacco Control from the Department of Health and Social Care. It is therefore for us to wish that the central authorities of the state administration honour the planned dynamics and confirm that they are driving at the fifth speed, as well as for MPs to force us to this speed, and I expect that we are discussing several laws of this document in this Croatian Assembly every week. And I'm glad that from the debate so far, colleagues and colleagues, regardless of the certain ominous announcements, it is evident that this document will be unanimously adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3666	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Nevio Šetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3667	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, the Secretary of State, the Honorable Ladies and Gentlemen of Representatives. I would like to begin by saying that I support the proposal for a plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legal acquis of the European Union for 2008. I believe we all agree on that because it is also one task that has already begun. There's only one list in front of us now that's waiting for us this year. I'll start by saying, and looking at all the laws waiting for us, many laws have been done for years, because that's logical. I can tell from my experience when it comes to education then I must say in this House that there is no single education system in Europe or in the world. Therefore, we, by joining the European Union, must first take advantage of our knowledge, our knowledge, our strength inside, and on the other hand take those elements that come together there. I'd say make a curricula at mandatory school, that's important. And we're doing it. So here's where the pre-productions were made. You could say that about some of the other laws I know, and that's that power from us, but that lady and gentlemen warns me of something else, that we have to change from within because we want to live in one legal and economic gain like the European Union where we have to improve a series of things with ourselves because we have lived for decades in a system that was completely opposite of that and not productive in that way and that leaves clues. And in that respect, I see homework for everyone. This means for all political options and for all our citizens because it requires changing from the inside. The laws are written. The laws may be better, some weaker, but it must bring us back to life. I, too, when I read here and Croatia has already received support for the changes it makes and the reward for these changes because at international meetings of European ministers, Croatia has been told that it has made progress in democracy, the rule of law, the protection of human rights, minority rights, judicial reform and the fight against corruption. I am convinced that this is not enough and we must continue under these conditions that I have tried to describe and put into function of everyday life to be a Croatian way, to make it a European way, because so we can safely produce life and ourselves as the most important element of future European policy when we are in the European Union. If we are strong for ourselves then we will be Croatian and European and we have no other choice because we are also members of a Western-European civilization where we have lived for centuries and centuries, we have been... Maybe seventy years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So what's the problem now is that one of those lives is going on again, and that life consists of you being a part of it. If we could be in the Middle Ages and have all the vibrations of European culture, civilizations of humanism, Renaissance and other processes that were then... So why don't we be today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But believe me, I'm communicating with a lot of people. If that's not true in us, if we're wrong about change, if we plant ourselves on change, we'll never be because where they're here please nice, we're harmonising 121 laws. You tell me how it can be in Croatia someone owns and produce... and myself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You see, that's one magical question that not everyone can give a solution to, but a man has to carry it in himself, that we have to have, and that's the important thing. We must first of all stay with ourselves in order to be somewhere else. I'm deliberately speaking in this little political way because here with these 121 listed laws, I can agree and disagree, I can say it's too little or too small. It seems to me when I should write it all over again so it wouldn't be possible, but I'm convinced because I've been working on some that pre-work has already been done for them. Therefore, there only needs to have the strength to step out and do. I see here a law that led me to what I just said, and that's, say, a law that has to be passed by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, which is, just to find it, that's the law that's going to be on vocational education. We have just faced that we have had hundreds of professions that have no qualifications or compliance with European practice. And what have we done? Some of us took away easily, some of us didn't. It's been going on for a while, but right now programming and creating a system so it can hold water for a long time isn't easy. Therefore, this process and this harmonisation will go on and on and on and on if we learn now and if we modernize it now, it will need to be constantly improved, constantly organised. We see the Law on the Recognition of Foreign Professional Qualifications. Well, of course this is important because of the mobility of the workforce that will affect Croatia because of the situations we will have so that we can have the coherence of those qualifications and competences that people have that come into the labour market. I will not be in debt, but I will say that this is political work for European Croatia, and I am thus experiencing it, and we as advocates can get very much at the awareness of this dimension and help on the other hand and the critical views of those who bring before us and the laws that we can better bring them into line with the legal gain of the European Union but also with the Croatian experience and I keep it most important. Because if we do not preserve Croatian national interests, we do not shape them to serve us, then it could be a failure that will be difficult to make up for later. So we need to raise awareness of our ambitions for future membership in the European Union, we need to change from within and we need to have the strength to face these situations. And that's why I want to make it clear here that maybe we're criticizing and creating a picture here like everything's wrong. It is very bad for Croatian society because if we cannot agree at this level and find harmony you can think about what is happening from our municipalities, cities and Croatian periphery, how the situation of energy and strength is working there. I think that here we must make a transparent decision and identify ourselves for what is European, for what is Croatian. Here, in this respect, I conclude my debate and support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3668	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3669	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I am using this replica to actually ask a colleague of Šetić, who was formerly a secretary of state, to talk about these education laws, and I would like to ask this question to be answered by the present representative of the motionary State Secretary. In fact, when we talk about all these laws that we need to coordinate with in the collapse of education especially basic and secondary, I think there is one question that I constantly have no answer to. If we have closed negotiations in the chapters of education and science, we have met all the conditions. I don't understand what we have to reconciling now. On the other hand, for the field of primary and secondary education, there is no acquis at European Union level with which they should be harmonised, since these are also left to Copenhagen contracts as the sole competence of national states. So, what am I saying? Among other things, the answer to these questions is that we have a lot of work to do in line with these European and the adoption of these European laws. But I don't think it's necessary and that it's counterproductive that we're sort of burdening the laws on which this seal P.Z.E. On which you really shouldn't be at all. Sometimes it seems to me that this argument is that we have to change some laws because this is what the European Union is asking us to do almost and most misused argument in law making. I mean, it's just that we need to get a list, it's big, but we just don't have to burden it with things that shouldn't be on the list. This does not mean that we do not need to amend these laws, that we should not adopt new laws but simply do not abuse the European Union's argument of what it is not in some way responsible or necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3670	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3671	Yes, thank you. I'd like to answer to an esteemed representative who's right about what this is about, but sometimes just because of one word, it's the law that needs to be changed. In particular, there are some areas that need to be completed and are related to this European legislation where the schooling of immigrant children is also in this regard. So literally sometimes for one word. So I appreciate what you've said and these areas are closed or our negotiating positions are good, but it is important to respect sometimes as we have recently had one legislative proposal which, due to two words, was literally to be amended. You should consider that there is one.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3672	Dear Representative Branko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3673	Dear Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. As a man who has been here for two years, I would like only one light reference to some projection of the story about the European Union that should take place in the next two to three years, depending on the speed we will achieve in this approach to the European Union. I would also like to say, perhaps, as a little depression at the beginning, that really my experience shows that in the state administration that participates in these negotiations there are really very high-quality and valuable people and that I would absolutely agree with my colleague, Pejcinović, and perhaps I would say something that she did not tell me and that these people are very often underpaid for the complexity of the jobs and the demand of the jobs they do. And I also have to say that we have had very often proposals or suggestions on the European side so that it can legally even be arranged that people who do European jobs, jobs related to negotiations and tomorrow who work on these jobs can even have specific salary supplements, which is the experience of some European countries. Therefore, work is appreciated. I have witnessed the same large number of cases of quality people who have left the state administration for twice or three times as many private sector offers, and today we cannot count on these people. These are all problems that have burdened probably this process and will simply have to come to some adjustments in this area. However, what I would particularly like to emphasise and what is the main part of my presentation is that today we are talking about laws and definitely laws are I would say it mathematically, in a mathematical way necessary but not sufficient conditions for meeting all the conditions to be done in this accession process to the European Union. We need action. We need works that will clearly show the Croatian state's will that indeed in this time that will come close enough to meet the conditions for accession to the European Union. I must say, it is absolutely not realistic to expect that Croatia and the last condition will meet until the very act of joining the European Union, but in fact what is expected of Croatia in this time that is planned, let's say by the first half of next year, is to demonstrate exactly this strong will to start certain reform processes and, of course, to implement these formal conditions. Because I still consider the law a lot of formal terms in this whole story. Why am I saying that? So simply as just before the case was in a significant number of chapters there is no Aqui. But on the other hand, there are clear laws of government action, executive authorities in adapting to certain propositions that stand there. I'll only mention industrial policy. In industrial policy, therefore, there is no Aqui in this chapter and one of the main issues is shipbuilding in Croatia today. Here and now that we have solved ZERP, I hope that we will address it to our, general satisfaction and the first next problem that will be imposed is shipbuilding but also all of those sectors in which we today have a very large share of state aid that is not in line with the European Union directives in the field of competition. And so on and so forth. There will be several more important problems that need to be solved. So beyond the legal procedure and beyond this House. That's what I'm talking about, and that's what I stand for. So I say there is, when you look at this report that precedes this national harmonisation plan of legislation you will see that in fact all those chapters that are not open, I call them chapters capitalists because they are actually the most difficult, demanding chapters of competition through justice and fundamental rights, freedom of movement of capital, agriculture, the environment. These are definitely the most demanding areas in the negotiations and are not yet open. And that's the problem where we need to concentrate all together and most of course executive power that kind of dictates the pace throughout the process. Finally, with all these problems, however, my perception of the situation and Croatia's relations with the European Commission and the representatives of the European Union is that in the end Croatia will have a bit of happiness, a little bit of happiness because I expect an appropriate degree of European Commission's independence in making a final decision on Croatia's final accession requirements, therefore for this final act of signing a contract with the European Union. When I say that, I know exactly why I'm saying this because if we wait to meet all the conditions, then it would take a long, long time. Why, then, is it important for this to happen in the first half of 2009. You probably also read a lot about it and listened and I will try only one aspect that colleague Pejcinović mentioned but did not further elaborate. She mentioned the financial effects and ultimately the whole process must be observed on the basis of a benefit analysis. Costs and uses that process. And that's where the "snatcher" is, so she rings 22. What I expect and what are actually recommendations from the European Union hurry up the process. Why rush the process? Because very pragmatic if Croatia completes negotiations in the first half of 2009 there is still a chance that the old Parliament will make some key decisions for Croatia on joining the European Union. This means a further ratification process in the Member States' parliaments over the next year to a year and a half. And then it is quite certain that the end of 2010 or the beginning of 2011 is the final date for meeting all the conditions for accession to the European Union. Why does it matter? It's very simple. If this happens then Croatia has a serious chance of entering the European Union's financial plan as well. So financial perspective, seven years defined for the period from 2007 to 2013 This is about the same situation as it was with the countries in the last wave of enlargement that took place in 2004. Therefore, in that period from 2011 to 2013 Croatia would do so. Facing in the phase, an entry phase in which these funds, ranging from 140m to 150m euros, would increase annually by two to three times. This is still not the final source of funds that Croatia would somehow have at its full moment, so at the moment of full membership and the completion of and facing in phase, and this would then happen in these circumstances in 2014. So at the beginning of the next perspective, when total assets would increase from 4 to 6 times according to some projections. In order to know how much this situation weighs financially, I will tell you that the estimates say that in the phase of 2011 the total amount of 300 to 400 million euros per year from various European funds is, above all, structural and cohesion, and that it is in the full-use phase of financial resources. So in this new financial perspective, it's somewhere between 700m and 900m euros. If you turn it into kuna then you will very quickly come to the fact that these are extremely significant funds, that these funds include almost 5% to 6% of today's Croatian budget and all these funds go into investment and all these funds are irrevocable. We can't easily give up that and that kind of potential, and that's why it's important that this process has its own dynamics, and that's why it's important that this process ends when we expect it to end and when we plan it, because that's actually the stock of this cost-effectiveness I would say the whole process. Here, thank you very much and of course, and therefore, from my own experience and because of this commitment spoken of by Neven Mimica, I will absolutely support any quality activity that will bring Croatia into the coverage of the European Union as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3674	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3675	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Well, of course we could say that we have reached a general consensus in Parliament, that Croatia's goal is to join the European Union as soon as possible. There's no dispute between us and that's good. However, there is a dispute between us over whose back we will carry out this speed that in one year we have 121 laws and 350 regulations that the Croatian legal system is aligned with the system of the countries of the European Union and that Croatian citizens live and work Croatian economic and economic operators. What was Parliament's task? Since 2001, when the Stabilisation and Association Agreement was signed and accession to the negotiations when we joined the political goal that the previous government had set for us to join the European Union in 2007, and in 2006 we are all forgetting it now and going quickly. It cannot be said otherwise to harmonize the lives of Croatian citizens and the lives of Croatian businessmen and Croatian businesses quickly so that they enter the European Union and live by the laws that are in line with the European Union. Let's imagine the coercion of those who have to adapt. 120 laws in one year, and it's already expired, can be said one quarter. So, what is the purpose of Croatian politics? Enter the European Union or ensure that Croatian citizens have a better standard, live safer and more certain when they are in the European Union. I think the point of politics is just this second one. Ensure that Croatian citizens and Croatian businesses live better, safer and more efficiently in the European Union. What are we going to get by joining the European Union? It's certainly a bigger market and bigger competition. Are we ready to raise the competitive capacity of the Croatian economy, the Croatian man to that level during that period. No, but we'll have to. Why didn't we? Here's an example. Yesterday we discussed the proposal for a budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008 and it is likely that this budget will be adopted where the rate of growth of the gross domestic product is four to four and a half percent. But colleagues and colleagues, it is a relative lag behind the economic and social standards of the European Union countries where we want to adapt our system to the countries of the European Union in a year. It's not the insurance that our citizens expect from us. If we also accept the fact that it is enough to pass both formal laws and regulations, it still does not mean that we have adopted and applied and that there is no problem in implementing these regulations and whether it is possible to implement them in any way within a year. The proof is that in 17 years or more of an independent Republic of Croatia, we have failed to settle state records that are the basis for certain things. From land books, catastra, depositary organisations, citizens' property, tax cards, etc. Is it possible, and these are the standards of the European Union. These are the standards of the European Union. Is it possible to resolve this with a legislative stampede for which we are told there is a responsibility of the previous government because we have not achieved the goals it has set for itself. In such a situation, unfortunately, we will have to choose and in this situation it is certain that we will choose at the expense of building a system that will be compatible with the systems of the European Union countries, accept entry, join the European Union and ask to enter as soon as possible but that is the responsibility of us in the Croatian Parliament to those who have chosen us because we have not provided time and this was our basic task, we have not provided time to adapt to the standards of the European Union and the laws of the European Union in life and work and preparation. Unfortunately, this must be said, because Croatia obviously does not learn without repeating mistakes, so it would be good to know that at least now we have already missed one quarter, so we have 121 laws in three quarters, which means that we would have to work to not only vote on laws that we have not even seen or read, so there will be an amendment and an amendment not only for the reasons why the European Union is looking for but because we have not been able to coordinate them or here in the Assembly and to study them in quality. Unfortunately, there is no choice, of course we will work to achieve the goal because it is now becoming a development factor as soon as possible in the European Union, because we ourselves have not been able to organise ourselves in the way the European Union has asked us to for seven years. In that sense, responsibility and those who led the country and prepared it, and failed to reduce the stampede in the last year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3676	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary Zeljko Kuprešak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3677	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam MPs and MPs. Just two or three sentences. I thank you first on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and in my personal name, because today it was nice to be the Secretary of State here and listen to the strong support we have received from all the clubs of the representatives for the implementation program of this circular document, the approach programme to the European Union. This document shows something that is very important, which is that there is ambition, that there is strong political will and what my colleague Mimica has also asked as a question, whether, excuse me, I'm calling you a colleague as well from the state administration. Mr. Mimica's esteemed representative, is there a co-ordination will? It exists and it will exist. We today have done a system of coordination that will, of course, follow how to negotiate as well as implement what we have agreed during the negotiations themselves. And I believe that these levels of coordination that appear from the National Committee for the Monitoring of Negotiations to coordination at the level of individual ministries and ultimately to co-ordination at the very level of the government from the prime minister himself will deliver their results. Perhaps at the very first moment the number of laws that appear here seems frightening, but what is important and what I have heard on all the committees that we have had so far, where we have discussed this programme, is important that the European Union has no alternative and then we derivate this part of the task which, in front of us in the state administration, also sets up a series of new tasks that I believe and that we will do and that we have to do them. As for maybe only two or three answers to some of the questions. It was one of Mrs. Vesna Pusic's questions that she had no key examinations. We've been agreed, maybe this program that we've put out here is a little too much, but we just wanted to show with this huge program that what's standing in front of us and what we need to do is make each of you aware of the jobs that are waiting for us this year. Of course, I have already agreed with Mrs Pusic, and we will deliver a brief proposal of the link between the criteria and certain laws that need to be passed in the Croatian Parliament. As for the disputed points that Mrs Pusic also cited, I think it is already responsible by individual representatives. I don't see that funds are one of the controversial points in our entire approach. It is one of the weaknesses that has no structural weight but perhaps at the level of the organization. I'm sure we'll be able to make it very quickly and in an organisational sense to line up, to meet the requirements of the withdrawal of funds. And what Mrs. Marija Pecinovic said, we have already shown that we can do this in previous examples with the CARDs, etc. ZERP is a story which, of course, will have to come out positively in Croatia, but in the case of Glavas, I do not see in any of the documents or from the European Union that this is one of the controversial points in the negotiations of the Republic of Croatia with the European Union. As far as Mrs. Greece's question is concerned, if I am not mistaken, I think Mr. Setic has already answered the question, it is about the adoption of the law in question, which is listed in the negotiating position and that children of citizens of the European Union can learn their own language. There was also a question of the Law on Criminal Procedure by Mrs Anticevic-Marinovic. In Chapter XXIII, the following entry is added: The judiciary and fundamental rights under the Criminal Procedure Act are abolished and an investigative investigation has been initiated by Ms. Marinovic, and therefore the part also has its positive echoes.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-28-0.u3678	Thank you very much. Even though you made one slip of the state secretary, it's not Mrs. Greek, it's Mr. Representative of the Greeks, and this is Miss Lugaric. You guys got them married like this, didn't you? ... In a way, it was said yes. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with a debate on the report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the spending of funds secured in the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006 for the needs of national minorities. Proposal for a plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legal acquis of the European Union for 2008. – Supplement A to the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia for Accession to the European Union – 2008. The debate is closed. I am voting on the draft legislative harmonisation plan. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find it unanimous with 123 votes for the proposed plan.
